

601 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2847 words

HEADLINE: Three Who Work Tirelessly To Help Poorest New Yorkers

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
When Jackie Ebron, Lynette Loadholt and Denise Eugene go to work in the morning, their paths never cross. But their paths do run parallel in many respects. All three women, dedicated to social work, are employed by social service agencies that are among the seven beneficiaries of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. In their different roles, they all spend many hours assisting the city's poorest residents: recent immigrants, newly unemployed or working poor people and medically fragile, physically or mentally disabled children and adults. 
 And there is one other thing they have in common: They often draw on the Neediest Cases to help these New Yorkers through what may be the bleakest time in their lives.
The aid ''could stop an eviction, or utility from being turned off; it could be used to buy food, medicine,'' said Ms. Ebron, who directs the crisis intervention program for the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty. The council is a beneficiary agency of the UJA-Federation of New York, one of the seven Neediest Cases charities. The fund, she added, ''allows people to sustain themselves while they are working toward a goal.'' 
 Providing this sort of support -- whether through the Neediest Cases or from state and federal sources -- has become an increasingly formidable task in New York City. 
 The city's poverty rate has climbed each year since 1999, and one in five residents now lives in poverty, according to a recent report by the Community Service Society, another Neediest Cases beneficiary agency. The same report found that one in three children lives in poverty. At the same time, earnings have declined, particularly for the city's lowest paying jobs, the report found.
 But while the need for charitable support remains as persistent -- and as urgent -- as ever, this year's annual Neediest Cases fund-raising campaign has lost significant ground in trying to match last year's donations. In this, the fund's 94th such campaign, donations are down 7 percent from last year's level of giving. And the number of donors has dipped as well, declining by about 14 percent. The campaign, which began in early November, ends on Feb. 3 (with donations received through Feb. 6 credited to the 2005-6 drive). 
 ''The decline leaves us concerned,'' said Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundation. ''The income gap between rich and poor in New York is greater than anywhere else in the country. That's all the more reason for us to hope for a closing surge in contributions and in donors.''
 For Ms. Eugene, Ms. Loadholt, Ms. Ebron, and other professionals at the seven charities the Neediest Cases supports, the decline in donations is especially troubling. They know what that resource can mean to someone facing a mountain of debt, a chronic illness, or a blast of winter without a warm winter coat. 
 ''With the Neediest fund accessible, I can eliminate fears,'' Ms. Ebron said.

An Imperative to Act
 Ms. Ebron, 55, has been at the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty for 16 years. When she started, she went to poor neighborhoods in Coney Island, Brooklyn, to help newly transplanted immigrants, mostly elderly Russians struggling to adjust to life in the United States. Witnessing the need for a centralized crisis center, she made the suggestion to start a center and is now its director. 
 Within a given week, she assists people of all ages and faiths. In the last month alone, she helped 197 clients referred to her by social workers from 25 community councils scattered throughout New York City. Those workers are the eyes and ears of neighborhoods and are intimately aware of the hardships that people are enduring. 
 When a client is in crisis, she said, there is an imperative to act. In this respect, the unrestricted assistance available through the Neediest Cases gives her the flexibility to respond, and respond quickly. 
 ''By the time I see someone, they're in over their heads,'' she said. ''They're not one month behind in rent, but four months and facing eviction, or at the point where the heat is going to be turned off.'' 
 This was the situation in one recent case, involving a single mother with triplets who arrived at her office in dire need after being abandoned by the children's father. 
 ''He left her with nothing,'' said Ms. Ebron, who received money from the Neediest Cases to provide essentials: food, clothing and baby strollers. 
 Such assistance can clear away immediate worries so both client and agency can begin to focus on the longer term issues. In this case, the young mother's whole outlook changed as a result of her visit to the agency. By the time the interview was over, there was a plan in place for housing, public assistance, food stamps and, further down the road, job training. 
 Ms. Ebron, and her counterparts at other agencies, also find that the Neediest Cases can give clients with unremitting illnesses some reprieve. A diagnosis of ovarian cancer, for example, can put an even greater strain on an already tight budget, not to mention breaking a woman's spirit. 
 Some women who have sought her help ''were employed, but because of chemotherapy or treatment, they just don't have the time on the books and their wages diminish,'' Ms. Ebron said. And in these circumstances, counseling deals with emotions while monthly bills, like rent, are apt to pile up. 
 In some cases, Ms. Ebron has been able to stave off eviction with the help of the Neediest Cases. 
 ''People try to stay hopeful that if they don't pay one month's rent, they will be able to cover it the following month,'' she said. ''The reality is that once you get behind, then it's hard to catch up.''
 Another increasingly urgent challenge for those in the business of offering help to the neediest New Yorkers are the elderly. Retirees are often counted among the most vulnerable of the city's residents, not only because of physical fragility, but also because so many are surviving on limited means. 
 According to the Community Service Society's report, one-fifth of elderly New Yorkers live in poverty, which can mean difficult choices: Pay the rent or buy medications. Buy the groceries or keep the phone from being turned off.
 ''They live on fixed income, and if a spouse dies, their social security is cut in half, but not their expenses,'' said Ms. Ebron, whose agency has used Neediest Cases funds to help cover late rent, pharmacy and utility bills.
 In these cases, and in countless others, the Neediest Cases has helped fill the gaps left by more restrictive federal and state assistance. It does not always provide a solution, but it may be a significant part of one, giving a client room to breathe and hope at a time of despair.
 ''With the help of the Neediest Cases, I have given them the strength and power, the dignity to move on to a better place,'' she said.

Support Groups for Relatives
 In New York, many of the most needy residents have mental or physical impairments and are fortunate to cross paths with Lynette Loadholt. 
 ''Just because a person has medical needs doesn't mean they can't be a productive member of society,'' said Ms. Loadholt, 45, director of mental retardation services for the Day Habilitation program of the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service. The bureau is another of the seven beneficiaries of the Neediest Cases.
 Ms. Loadholt, who has been at the bureau for 5 of her 27 years of experience, oversees a staff that teaches quality-of-life skills to underprivileged individuals, high school seniors and older, with developmental disabilities ranging from mild to moderate retardation. These men and women learn how to navigate public transportation, manage their finances and socialize. These skills, as well as others learned in residential training sessions and counseling, prepare them to live on their own. 
 ''They want to get married and have jobs and families,'' Ms. Loadholt said. Because of these services, and the agency's ability to draw from the Neediest Cases, her clients don't have to look elsewhere to fulfill those dreams. ''We are like a one-stop shop,'' she said. 
 Besides providing services for the clients themselves, Ms. Loadholt's agency also regularly holds support groups for their parents and grandparents. In the relaxed setting, members talk about their own personal issues and individual needs. 
 Topics of discussion range from special education classes to Medicaid, medications to behavior problems. By the end of the session, she usually leaves with a list of things to research for her clients and their families, and with access to the Neediest Cases, she knows she can take care of some of their worries. 
 Recently, for example, she used funds to buy an exercise bike for an overweight girl with developmental disabilities. ''Losing weight improved her self-esteem,'' Ms. Loadholt said. With better health, the girl has also reduced her risk of developing weight-related diseases like diabetes. 
 In another case, in 2004, the fund was tapped to buy a computer for Anthony Knox, a mentally disabled young man recovering from a kidney transplant, allowing him to stay connected with the world. This particular case was reported in The New York Times. When stories are highlighted during the campaign, she said, the articles can accomplish two things: inspiring donations and enlightening people about disabilities. ''If you don't know about disabilities, then you treat people differently,'' she said. ''I would hope that these stories make people a little kinder.'' 

Stabilizing a Child
 In some cases, a family may be hard-pressed to provide proper care for a loved one with mild to severe medical needs, a situation that can lead to separation enforced by a family court. When the family member is under 21, Denise Eugene, 49, a senior social worker at the Medical Foster Care Program for the Children's Aid Society -- another of the Neediest Cases beneficiary agencies -- may be called in by the city's Administration for Children's Services.
 ''The job is stress, even when the children don't have medical problems, but when they do it's compounded,'' she said. ''It's dealing with medical problems. It's dealing with potential fatalities. It's dealing with families.'' 
 Some of the children she sees have debilitating illnesses that require medical equipment, like feeding tubes or respirators, just to survive.
 All the children she works with receive appropriate services in their foster homes or centers, while taking part in special education classes at school. 
 One of the tools Ms. Eugene relies on to help children adapt to foster care is the Neediest Cases. Even a small purchase -- new clothing, for example -- can make a child more optimistic. ''When a girl goes to school with a new dress, she is proud to raise her hand,'' she said. ''She becomes the beautiful girl with the high I.Q., not the girl suffering from depression.'' 
 Once a child is stabilized, Ms. Eugene and her staff can pursue that goal by focusing on the parents, helping them comply with schedules and requirements set by family court. This includes counseling, and sometimes drug rehabilitation. 
 The ultimate objective is to try to make a foster care placement temporary.
 In a recent case, Nile Kpaka, a soft-spoken Staten Island teenager who has had two kidney transplants, the Children's Aid Society helped reunite the fractured family after concern about her mounting medical problems led to her being removed from her parents' care. 
 The agency provided counseling and a nurse's instruction.
 But the Neediest Cases was also key to the agency's efforts to help the Kpaka family. 
 Among other things, the fund helped covered a first month's rent when, as part of the effort to get their daughter back, the Kpakas needed to find a new apartment. (An account of the effort appeared in The Times on Jan. 19.)
 Ms. Eugene said that the Neediest Cases can often help parents with the practical aspects of what they must do to regain custody of their children. 
 ''I can get MetroCards to get people to and from therapy; I can get you food so you focus on your goal. If you get the job interview, I can get you the new suit,'' she said. ''When you remove barriers, it becomes, 'Then why can't you?' '' 
 Over the course of her 14 years at Children's Aid Society, Ms. Eugene has covered rent as well as furnishings for a home that had none. Recently, the fund was used to help an autistic foster child living in New York. The money covered travel expenses so the child could visit his father, who was stationed at a military base in the North Carolina and wanted to be more involved in his child's life. ''I love how we use the Neediest Cases to keep families together,'' she said.
 Ms. Eugene says she knows she has made progress when the parent's point of view shifts from ''what about me'' to understanding that their child's care must come first. That doesn't always happen, she added, conceding that not every parent wants a child back. And even some that do may see poverty as an insurmountable obstacle, if they don't know how to take advantage of the resources available to them. 
 ''Between the state, Children's Aid and the Neediest,'' she said, ''everyone has an opportunity to do better for themselves.'' 

Keeping Children Healthy Amid Family Turmoil
 Dr. Andrea Perry, a pediatrician with the Children's Aid Society medical foster care program, said the Neediest Cases covers expenses that Medicaid won't. 
 My initial visit with children as young as a few weeks or as old as 22 is usually the toughest. I see them as soon as they are placed with a foster family. The kids who can speak don't readily express themselves. It's understandable, even under the best circumstances. 
 But in these cases there's usually a history of neglect or abuse. This is the main reason why Children's Aid is involved, and a child has been placed in foster care.
 The infants with shaken-baby syndrome are the hardest for me. The brain trauma causes cerebral palsy and seizures. I see patients with milder chronic illnesses, such as autism and asthma. 
 Caring for a broad group, many without accurate medical records, you really have to rely on intuition and watch for their cues.
 From the initial visit, they're in my office every five to six weeks, supervised by an assigned Children's Aid caseworker and nurse.
 While I'm addressing all the child's medical needs, including specialized care, the parents are setting their own goals. Tending to their own problems, they keep weekly appointments with their child's caseworker, and several times within a month with the nurse.
 In these sessions, they learn about their child and how to administer the proper care. Then they work on their needs through counseling, and if necessary, drug rehabilitation. 
 My biggest challenge is providing comprehensive medical care within the limitations of what Medicaid covers. Medicaid provides for the essentials, not the exceptions. Wheelchairs are asked for the most. Children outgrow them within a year. And if a child has physical deformities, they must be customized to fit. Medicaid won't cover this expense.
 The Neediest Cases does. It's an invaluable resource at Children's Aid. The Neediest Cases fund provides options when there are no options.
 Even the littlest amount, like for the purchase of eyeglasses, can change a child's outlook on life. 
 This is when I get the greatest satisfaction from my job, when a medically fragile patient has a reason to smile. 

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $6,566,951.98
Recorded Thursday: $26,712.85
Total: $6,593,664.83
Last year to date: $7,055,381.43


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jackie Ebron helps clients at the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, where she runs a crisis intervention program. (Photo by UJA-Federation of New York)
Lynette Loadholt, of the Day Habilitation program of the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, meeting with Duane Granderson, left, and Daniel Espinal. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
Denise Eugene, a senior social worker with the medical foster care program at the Children's Aid Society, at her desk in one of the society's offices in Manhattan. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 Dr. Andrea Perry says her biggest challenge is providing medical care for foster children within the confines of Medicaid. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHARITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (87%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); EVICTION (76%); CITIES (76%); POVERTY RATES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (55%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund; Biographical Information

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Uja-Federation of New York; Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service; Children's Aid Society; Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%)

PERSON: Kari Haskell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



602 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: A Struggle for Solvency At Milwaukee Museum 

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE 

 BODY:
The Milwaukee Public Museum, the pride of this fiercely proud city, went bust last summer. Now the question is whether guns, God and a gorilla -- or at least what is left of him -- can restore its fortunes.
 The museum, one of the largest natural history museums in the country, is installing an exhibit of Vatican treasures, including a golden cast of Pope John Paul II's hands, that will open next month and is dusting off the 3,000 guns in its collection before members of the National Rifle Association arrive for their annual meeting in May.
It also has plans to showcase the skeleton of a gorilla named Samson, once the star attraction at the local zoo. ''It will be something like Sue,'' said Daniel M. Finley, the museum's new director, referring to the Tyrannosaurus rex skeleton that is the marquee exhibit at the Field Museum in Chicago.
 These exhibits, coupled with huge job and other cost cuts, are expected to go a long way toward meeting the museum's $12.7 million budget for this year. 
 But like many museums in midsize cities around the country, eager to break out of a rut of stagnant attendance and attract tourists to stoke civic pride and the local economy, the Milwaukee Public Museum spent heavily on an aggressive expansion that never paid off. Besides its operating costs, it is saddled with $28 million in debt and other liabilities -- a stark warning to other institutions that build in hopes that ''they will come.'' 
 ''The debt is still there,'' said Jerome J. Heer, director of audits for Milwaukee County. ''It looms like a great big dark cloud.'' This year alone, the debt will cost $1.2 million, or almost 10 percent of the museum's budget. 
 Largely by borrowing in the late 1990's, the museum opened stores across the state, bought half-interests in an Imax theater and a rain forest in Costa Rica, built a butterfly vivarium and began holding major exhibits. It even started selling chocolate made from cacao from its rain forest. 
 Those programs required big initial expenditures, additional staff members and higher energy bills to maintain the live butterfly exhibit. Steep increases in health care costs and other rising expenses, problems facing many institutions, contributed to the problem. 
 The expansion produced higher revenues -- just not enough to cover the higher costs. Paid attendance, which averaged 364,395 in the past five years, remained relatively flat, and losses from the foray into retail and Imax totaled $1.5 million. Concessions earned just $43,219 in that time, according to an audit by Milwaukee County. 
 ''We thought we could make money selling candy bars,'' Mr. Finley said with a derisive snort.
 The museum ended its fiscal year in August with a deficit of more than $10 million and just $387,000 in its endowment -- effectively bankrupt. ''I think its aspirations generally exceeded its resources,'' said Roger W. Bowen, general secretary of the American Association of University Professors.
 Mr. Bowen was hired in 2001 to replace William Moynihan as the museum's director but left after a year. Mr. Moynihan, a former vice president of the American Museum of Natural History in New York, was beloved in the community, and filling his shoes added another big expense.
 Terry A. Gaouette, the museum's former chief financial officer, estimated that replacing Mr. Moynihan, first with Mr. Bowen and then two others, one of whom backed out at the last minute, cost the museum roughly $1 million. 
 While the door revolved above him, Mr. Gaouette juggled the museum's finances, drawing on the endowment and grants to avoid default and pay creditors, and negotiating with banks to postpone deadlines and obtain additional credit. 
 ''We had commitments we had to fulfill,'' he said. ''People kept telling me things are going to get better, I'm going to bring in more money, just wait -- and then at the last minute, they'd come up short.''
 The county audit questions some of Mr. Gaouette's decisions, saying that he violated limits on the use of the endowment for operating purposes, presented financial reports that were ''misleading and inaccurate'' and violated agreements struck with private and public donors, including the National Science Foundation.
 The museum's 27 board members, who were criticized in the audit as being disengaged, also point a finger at Mr. Gaouette -- although not directly, because the museum signed an agreement when he resigned that bars it from disparaging him. 
 ''We had some management people who were not disclosing the true condition of the museum's finances,'' said John E. Schlifske, the new chairman of the board. ''It was a matter of misplaced trust by the board.''
 Not at all, Mr. Gaouette said. ''To say they didn't know, to say they didn't understand, it just defies credulity,'' he said. 
 He denied any wrongdoing and provided e-mail messages and memorandums sent in the past few years to Michael D. Stafford, the former chief executive, and the board that clearly noted the financial problems.
 Three years ago, Mr. Gaouette warned the audit and finance committee that the museum had ''experienced several factors which contributed to its worst financial performance in eight years.''
 On Aug. 8, 2004, he wrote to Mr. Stafford, ''We are in serious trouble.'' 
 Mr. Gaouette said his reports to the board contained all the information needed to see the museum's problems. 
 Mr. Heer and Mr. Schlifske agreed that the board's attentiveness to the museum's finances was ripe for criticism. But Mr. Heer said that although Mr. Gaouette was issuing warnings, he also put a rosy spin on financial affairs.
 For instance, he told the committee that grants to the museum had fallen in 2002 to $212,000, nearly an 80 percent decline in one year -- and then offered additional information suggesting the decline was really only about 35 percent.
 ''A lot of information they were getting was modified, adjusted, confusing,'' Mr. Heer said. ''The weekly financial reports he was giving them were 80 columns wide -- but the three numbers you'd need to really get the picture weren't there.'' 
 While there is little agreement over where the blame lies, there is a consensus that the museum's biggest challenge is finding money to retire debt. 
 Some say that Milwaukee County, which ran the museum until 1992, and still appoints nine board members and supplies roughly a quarter of its budget, will have to come to the rescue. But Mr. Finley, who left his post as the executive of neighboring Waukesha County to take the museum helm, dismissed that idea.
 He responded positively when asked whether the banks holding the debt might forgive some of it. But Mr. Schlifske, a senior executive at Northwest Mutual Life, one of Milwaukee's leading financial institutions, shook his head firmly. ''There are no plans to ask our creditors to help us out,'' Mr. Schlifske said.
 He expects local donors to come to the museum's rescue, gesturing toward Lake Michigan and the gleaming new wing on the Milwaukee Art Museum. Construction of the wing cost more than three times the original projection, and raising the final $30 million proved difficult. The art museum coaxed Sheldon B. Lubar, one of Milwaukee's biggest philanthropists, to take up the task.
 Mr. Lubar did it by going back to the museum's directors, who provided much of the initial money, and twisting their arms for two years. ''I told them you've got to protect your investment, and the only way to do that is by putting up more,'' he said.
 The public museum cannot make that argument, and Mr. Lubar said he doubted it could raise money toget out from under its debts. ''People don't want to give money to correct someone else's mistakes,'' he said. 
 Mr. Schlifske is undaunted. The museum has a place in the heart of Milwaukee's 600,000 residents and already has secured $1.2 million in pledges, roughly half of which will be used to pay back a $6 million line of credit needed to weather the crisis.
 ''This is a beloved institution,'' he said. ''Milwaukee will stand behind it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel M. Finley, above, left his job as the Waukesha County executive to become the museum's director. Below, the skeleton of a humpback whale hangs above the museum's stairway entrance.
 The Milwaukee Public Museum, above, embarked on a major expansion that never paid off. Below, Gianna Bombicino, 8, of Lindenhurst, Ill., in the museum's costly live butterfly exhibit. (Photographs by Kevin J. Miyazaki for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); BUDGETS (87%); HISTORY (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RELIGION (73%); AUDITS (68%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); TICKET SALES (66%) Museums; Finances; Credit; Travel and Vacations; Museums

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%) Milwaukee Public Museum

PERSON: Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (99%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) WISCONSIN, USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (99%); HOLY SEE (90%); COSTA RICA (79%) Milwaukee (Wis)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



603 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Counterfeiting Complicates Nuclear Crisis

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
It has all the makings of a James Bond movie: an isolated authoritarian regime running a secret counterfeiting network with tentacles reaching into foreign banks, the Irish Republican Army and Chinese underworld gangs dealing in narcotics and antiaircraft missiles.
 This is the picture of North Korea that former American officials and analysts say Washington has pieced together in recent years as it has investigated the appearance around the world of bogus $100 bills so perfect that they have been called ''supernotes.''
 Using government printing presses to run off another country's currency, possibly in an effort to destabilize that currency, would appear to be the sort of criminal act that demands tough international penalties. But Washington's effort to press its case has become mired in the tricky politics of an even larger and more serious problem: nuclear proliferation. 
 [Late in the week, the North Korean government vehemently denied any hand in counterfeiting and vowed to resist pressure from the United States over the matter. In one commentary carried by the state-run Korean Central News Agency on Saturday, The Associated Press reported, Pyongyang declared that it does ''not allow such things as bad treatment of the people, counterfeiting and drug trafficking.'' North Korea also warned, The A.P. said, that a new military pact between Seoul and Washington meant that ''dark clouds of a nuclear war are hanging low over the Korean Peninsula.'']
 South Korea, an important United States ally in the region, apparently fears that pushing the counterfeiting issue could derail efforts to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear ambitions.
 ''The counterfeiting issue has become just a card in the bigger game of getting North Korea to disarm,'' said Kim Sung Han, a researcher at the Institute of Foreign Affairs and National Security, a government policy research group.
 That is why when a delegation from the Treasury Department arrived here this week to ask for South Korea's cooperation to stop the counterfeiting, the Americans got a chilly -- and slightly puzzling -- response. 
 South Korea, a longtime partner of Washington against North Korea, went to lengths to distance itself from the American accusations, even to the point of denying that the United States had sought its support.
 On Tuesday, the United States Embassy issued a bland statement saying that Treasury officials had ''urged'' South Korea to take unspecified steps against counterfeiting. On Wednesday, a spokesman for the South Korean Foreign Ministry, Choo Kyu Ho, said the embassy had ''exaggerated'' the content of the discussions.
 The Treasury delegation ''did not urge us either officially or unofficially to take measures,'' Mr. Choo said in a statement.
 The issue escalated further when South Korean President Roh Moo Hyun warned Washington in a nationally televised news conference that taking too tough a stance against North Korea could cause ''friction and disagreement between South Korea and the United States.''
 On Thursday in Washington, President Bush vowed to press North Korea to stop counterfeiting.
 ''If someone is cheating on us, we need to stop them,'' Mr. Bush said. The United States says it has found $45 million in supernotes, which it says North Korea has used to prop up its decrepit economy and keep its leaders in luxury.
 In part, the rift between the allies reflects a widening gap in their strategies for dealing with North Korea. While Washington favors a harder line, Seoul hopes a gentler approach may one day lead to a reunification of the two Koreas, specialists say.
 South Korea also seems to share concerns that the counterfeiting issue is threatening six-nation talks aimed at peacefully ending North Korea's nuclear weapons program. In November, North Korea's envoy walked out of the negotiations after the United States imposed penalties on Banco Delta Asia, a bank in the former Portuguese colony of Macau that it says North Korean diplomats used to launder briefcases full of bogus dollars.
 American officials have tried to separate counterfeiting from nuclear talks. On Wednesday, Daniel Glaser, a deputy assistant Treasury secretary and the leader of the United States delegation, told reporters that Washington does not regard the counterfeiting issue ''to be in any way related to the six-party talks,'' the Associated Press reported.
 China, which independently confirmed the counterfeiting allegations, has emphasized to North Korea that the issue should not be seized upon as a pretext for avoiding the talks, which Beijing would like to see resume by mid-February. 
 South Korea and other nations have deeper concerns that hard-liners in the Bush administration may be using the issue to drive a tougher bargain with North Korea, or to derail the talks.
 In particular, many wonder why the United States has chosen to raise the counterfeiting issue now, after remaining virtually silent for more than a decade. American officials first suspected North Korea in the late 1980's, when supernotes started appearing in East Asia and the Middle East. But Washington did not take action until the penalties against Banco Delta Asia in September.
 Critics point out that the penalties, which outraged North Korea, were imposed suspiciously close to an apparent breakthrough in the six-party nuclear talks on Sept. 19, when North Korea agreed to abandon its nuclear program in exchange for aid and security guarantees.
 ''The timing could have been poor coordination'' between law enforcement officials and negotiators, said Peter Beck, director of Northeast Asia at the International Crisis Group, a nongovernment organization that researches security issues. ''Or it could have been sabotage by those who still want regime change.''
 David L. Asher, a former State Department official who oversaw the investigation into North Korean counterfeiting, offered a different explanation. He said the Bush administration ordered the inquiry soon after taking power in 2001, and it took 150 federal officials four years of sleuthing to assemble the evidence, much of which has not been made public.
 ''The timing is just a coincidence,'' said Mr. Asher, who was coordinator of the department's North Korea working group until last year. ''The administration wanted us to prove this. They didn't want this to end up like Iraqi W.M.D.s,'' referring to the so-called weapons of mass destruction that the Bush administration never found in Iraq.
 In particular, Mr. Asher said, the administration waited until September to give the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other law enforcement agencies time to finish two elaborate undercover operations focusing on members of China's notorious Triad criminal syndicates. The operations, which ended in August, netted $4 million worth of supernotes with narcotics and counterfeit versions of name brand cigarettes.
 The operations, called Royal Charm and Smoking Dragon, arrested 59 people suspected of being gang members, including some lured into the United States when federal agents posing as organized crime figures invited them to a staged wedding. Before they were arrested, some of the suspects even offered to sell federal agents shoulder-fired antiaircraft missiles, Mr. Asher said. 
 He said he did not know if the missiles had been made in North Korea.
 Other details of North Korea's counterfeiting operation trickled out in October after the arrest in Northern Ireland of Sean Garland, a leading member of a faction of the Irish Republican Army, on charges he circulated more than $1 million worth of fake $100 notes in Britain and Eastern Europe.
 ''North Korea has been using all the immunities and technical abilities that only governments have'' to counterfeit United States currency, Mr. Asher said. ''The whole world has tolerated North Korea's illegal sources of income too long.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel Glaser, left, a deputy assistant Treasury secretary, and Kim Sook, the South Korean Foreign Ministry's director general for North America, at a meeting of the ministry in Seoul on Monday.
 Suh Tae Suk, a currency specialist, examined a $100 note last month at the Korean Exchange Bank in Seoul. (Photographs by Lee Jae-Won/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%) Currency; Counterfeit Money and Financial Instruments; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (84%)

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) North Korea; China; South Korea; Japan; Russia; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



604 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Minaya's Signing of Latin Players Stirs Debate 

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
THE idea so enraged Brian Cashman, the Yankees' general manager, that he called from his car on the way home the other day to have a second conversation about it.
 ''Have you really heard people say that?'' he said. ''That's unbelievable. I can't believe in this day and age it's something that has come up. I'm driving and thinking about it, and it makes me mad.''
The object of Cashman's anger was the talk last week about Omar Minaya, the Mets' general manager, and his growing collection of Hispanic players. It seems that some people have taken exception to Minaya's acquisitions, charging that because he is Latin, he is Latinizing the Mets.
 It's funny, but white Anglo-Saxon general managers have not been accused of Americanizing their teams. 
 A survey of a half-dozen general managers found none who thought Minaya had sought only Latin players.
 ''I deal with him a lot,'' Bill Bavasi of Seattle said. ''I haven't made a deal with him, but he's come after me for Sexson, and at various times he's been interested in Reed. He's probably happy with his catching, but he'd probably have been happy if Johjima had visited New York. Johjima was planning on going there, but we made the best pre-emptive strike we could.''
 First baseman Richie Sexson and center fielder Jeremy Reed are white Americans. Kenji Johjima is a Japanese catcher whom the Mets were interested in before he signed with the Mariners, and the Mets traded for Paul Lo Duca, an American catcher. 
 ''Would you blame him if he had interest in Felix Hernandez?'' Bavasi said, referring to his sensational 19-year-old Venezuelan pitcher. ''I'm a guy who worked my tail off to get Carlos Delgado.''
 Minaya beat Bavasi to Delgado, one of six Latin players the Mets have traded for or signed this winter. But just as Carlos Beltran was the best hitter and Pedro Martinez the best pitcher available last winter, Delgado was the best hitter on the market, via trade or free agency, this year. In other words, Minaya went after the best players available, and they just happened to have been Latinos. 
 ''Omar's a talent guy,'' said Pat Gillick, the Philadelphia Phillies' general manager, who recruited a lot of Latin players when he worked for the Toronto Blue Jays. ''He sees talent, and he goes after it.''
 Minaya has gone after it with Fred Wilpon's money. As diligent and as shrewd as he may be, Minaya could not have acquired his Latin stars if Wilpon hadn't been willing to subsidize his efforts. 
 Unlike Arte Moreno, the Angels' owner, Wilpon is not Hispanic. If he didn't like having these Latin players on his team, they wouldn't be there. He approved the expenditures. 
 But Wilpon wants to win, and Minaya has put together a team that has a chance to win. His arsenal includes Martinez, Beltran, Delgado, Jorge Julio, Julio Franco, Jose Valentin, Xavier Nady and Duaner Sanchez.
 It also includes Billy Wagner, a Virginian, whom Minaya preferred as the closer over the Hispanics Jose Mesa and Octavio Dotel. It does not include the Cuban Danys Baez in setup relief because Minaya refused to give up the Indianan Aaron Heilman for him. Minaya also let Roberto Hernandez, a Latino who was the Mets' setup man, go as a free agent. 
 Minaya, Major League Baseball's first and only Latin general manager, could have signed a Latin catcher, Ramon Hernandez or Bengie Molina, but he chose to trade for Lo Duca instead.
 But when Minaya traded Kris Benson to Baltimore for Julio, none of those developments mattered. Benson's irrepressible wife, Anna, said Minaya wanted to create an all-Latin team. Sports talk radio shows picked up on the idea and made it a hit topic of discussion last week. 
 ''It sounds like talk-radio fodder,'' Mark Shapiro, the Cleveland general manager, said. ''At this time of year, they're looking to fill time.
 ''I know Omar well. I respect him greatly. He's driven to win. He's not driven to getting any type of players but a winning type of players. He's tireless, creative.''
 J. P. Ricciardi, the Toronto general manager, said the charge that Minaya wanted only Latin players was ludicrous and unfair.
 ''I've known Omar for a long time,'' Ricciardi said. ''We both played in the minor leagues. We started scouting together. I've seen Omar draft a lot of different types of players. I don't think any of us are stupid enough to sit here and say, 'I'm going to sign white players or Spanish players.' There are not enough good players to do that. You can't be in this job and have a narrow mind.''
 Cashman echoed Ricciardi's views, saying general managers did not operate the way critics said Minaya did. 
 ''We're required to put the best team on the field, and we're going to be judged on those decisions,'' Cashman said. ''I think it's a lot ado about nothing. It's unfortunate.''
 In the past two years, the Detroit Tigers signed three premier Latin players -- Ivan Rodriguez, Carlos Guillen and Magglio Ordonez -- but General Manager Dave Dombrowski said he never heard anyone accuse him of wanting to Latinize the Tigers.
 ''We're focused on trying to win,'' he said. ''When you're trying to win, you're trying to get the best players possible. It doesn't matter where they come from.''
 Minaya said he did not care where his players came from, either.
 ''I don't make baseball decisions based on color, religion or sexual orientation,'' he said. ''That's not the way I was taught; that's not the way I believe. The sad thing about it is, in 2006 we're talking about issues of race in sports, and there are people who not only keep stats on baseball, but keep stats on race.''

Jobless Number Falls to 4
 One down, four to go. 
 Of the five veteran sluggers who have been free agents this winter, Frank Thomas became the first to sign, joining the Oakland Athletics last week as their designated hitter. Mike Piazza, Juan Gonzalez, Sammy Sosa and Rafael Palmeiro remained jobless.
 Palmeiro said earlier in the winter that he had not decided whether he would continue playing. If he wants to play, he has no guarantee of a job because of the reaction to his steroids suspension last season.
 Sosa's agent has been speaking to the Washington Nationals.
 Piazza's agent has not returned numerous calls over the past few weeks seeking word on Piazza's status, but the flurry of newspaper reports last week about the Yankees' possible interest was grossly misleading. The agent, Dan Lozano, called the Yankees, but he was only doing his job. His call to them did not mean the Yankees had any interest.
 Gonzalez, who tore a hamstring in his only at-bat last season, has generated no interest from any team, said his agent, Alan Nero. 

Baylor Is Unemployed
 For only the second time in 39 years, Don Baylor will not be in spring training this year. A longtime player, manager and coach, he is unemployed for the first time since 1989. 
 ''I'm going to work on my golf game and wait to see what happens,'' said Baylor, who was Seattle's hitting coach last year. ''I told Becky we can finally get unpacked. Every year you come back and throw a few more things in the corner.''
 Baylor's primary concern with his unemployment is that team executives may think he is not completely healthy after his battle with multiple myeloma a few years ago.
 ''Physically, I'm better than ever,'' Baylor said. ''I can't convince anybody otherwise. My doctor said he'd write me a permit and said, 'Have them call me.' ''
 Baylor said he was not certain how to approach the coming season. ''It's what you've been a part of for so long,'' he said.''I don't think I can watch a game without an interest in who wins.''

2 Trades for Top Prospect
 Andy Marte, the 22-year-old third baseman Cleveland obtained from Boston in a seven-player trade Friday, is considered one of the best prospects in the minor leagues, but he has been dealt twice this winter. The Atlanta Braves traded him to Boston because they needed a shortstop (Edgar Renteria), and the Red Sox traded him because they needed a center fielder (Coco Crisp).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mets General Manager Omar Minaya has pursued talented Latin players with the support of the team's principal owner, Fred Wilpon. (Photo by Frank Franklin II/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); ATHLETES (69%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%) New York Mets

PERSON: Murray Chass; Omar Minaya

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%); ONTARIO, CANADA (50%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



605 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Is a Proud Town, With a Once-Proud Team

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
During a Lions game against Minnesota at Ford Field last month, a customer urged the ouster of Matt Millen, the team's president, by displaying a sign that said, ''Fire Millen!'' When guards tried to take it away, the man ran.
 Other fans cheered and stepped aside as he sprinted and weaved and waved the sign until security guards tackled him. The entire incident contained some of the best running and tackling seen in Detroit all season.
The Lions lost that game and finished the season with a 5-11 record. They have changed coaches again. They have not won an N.F.L. championship since 1957, a decade before the beginning of the Super Bowl era. Since then, they have won exactly one postseason game.
 But the team and the city will play host to Super Bowl XL next Sunday, when the Pittsburgh Steelers meet the Seattle Seahawks. The Detroit area is welcoming the game for the second time -- the first was in 1982, at the Pontiac Silverdome -- for a variety of reasons. 
 One is the building of Ford Field, a $500 million covered stadium that opened downtown in 2002 across the street from Comerica Park, the home of the Tigers. Commissioner Paul Tagliabue promised that he would support a second Super Bowl for Detroit once Ford Field was built.
 Another factor is the American automobile industry. Detroit's car companies are still among the sport's biggest commercial sponsors, and the Ford family, which controls the Ford Motor Company, owns the local team.
 A third reason is Detroit's status as a bedrock N.F.L. member and historically vital market for team sports. The Lions have been here since 1934. Aside from New York, no other city has had teams in the four major professional team sports -- baseball, football, basketball and hockey -- longer than Detroit.
 The city's 20th-century sports icons included Ty Cobb, Gordie Howe and Joe Louis, the longtime heavyweight boxing champion whose bronze fist is clenched in a 24-foot, 8,000-pound monument to his right arm near City Hall downtown. But the Lions have added little punch or glory to the civic story recently.
 Their best player in decades, running back Barry Sanders, retired in 1998 while still capable of top performances. Under Millen since 2001, the Lions are 21-59.
 William Clay Ford, who has owned the team since 1964, did not respond Friday to a request for an interview. But his thoughts are a matter of record: ''It has been difficult. But, I guess it's always darkest before the dawn.'' 
 Ford made those comments to The Detroit Free Press before the 1966 season. In the four decades since, the Lions have had only one coach who worked at least a full season with a career record better than .500: Joe Schmidt, a former player who went 43-35 from 1967 to 1972.
 Schmidt said Friday that local support for the Lions was admirable. The team sells out its 65,000-seat stadium. In a region of about five million people, the Lions may be the most popular team.
 If the Lions ever reached the Super Bowl, Schmidt said, ''this place might be up for grabs for about a month.''
 Only 5 of the N.F.L.'s 32 franchises have not qualified for the game, and the Lions are the oldest franchise operating in one place to have sat out. The Cardinals have been around longer, but they have been based in three locations.
 ''I'm like everyone else,'' said Schmidt, a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame as a linebacker. ''You get frustrated. But down deep, we all hope things turn around.''
 Schmidt played from 1953 to 1965, when the Lions were good and pro football was newly hip. That group was made famous in the 1965 book ''Paper Lion'' by George Plimpton, who posed as a rookie quarterback in the Lions' training camp in the summer of 1963.
 Most of the players quickly caught on to Plimpton. One of them, Dick LeBeau, now the Steelers' defensive coordinator, said that when even introverted players discovered that Plimpton was writing a book, they would say, ''Hey, George, let's go to a bar tonight!''
 Plimpton's training-camp experience came during one of the franchise's few periods of success. The 1962 Lions went 11-3, their .785 winning percentage the team's best in the last half-century -- although, in those pre-wild-card days, the team did not make the playoffs. 
 That 1962 season produced one of the most famous images in team history. The Packers were a rising dynasty then, and the Lions were among their closest competitors. The picture showed the Detroit defense tackling Green Bay quarterback Bart Starr in the Thanksgiving Day game at Tiger Stadium, the only game the Packers lost that season. The Lions sacked Starr 11 times in a 26-14 victory.
 The photograph and other Lions artifacts are on display in an exhibition called ''Double Coverage'' at the Walter P. Reuther Library at Wayne State University, about two miles from Ford Field. Among the guests at the exhibition's opening Thursday was Wally Triplett, a Lion in 1949 and 1950 and one of the first African-American players in the N.F.L.
 Triplett, wearing a windbreaker that displayed the words NFLPA Retired Players Association, was more blunt than Schmidt in discussing the current team.
 ''It's embarrassing,'' Triplett said. ''Millen is a nice guy, but he just can't handle the job. The fans have the right to put the paper bags over their heads. They're crying to get a better situation.''
 Millen, a former player and broadcaster, did not respond to a request for comment, but at a recent news conference he said: ''Blame me. I deserve the blame.''
 On a radio program, he said his family, as a joke, put a ''Fire Millen'' sign in the hands of the angel at the top of their Christmas tree. He also said: ''I believe what we have here is going to work. Maybe nobody else does.''
 Earlier this month, Millen hired Rod Marinelli, a Tampa Bay assistant, as the Lions' coach. The 56-year-old Marinelli, a Vietnam veteran, has never been a head coach before. 
 While Millen runs the football side of the Lions' operation, Tom Lewand, a lawyer with a political background, runs the team's business affairs.
 Lewand acknowledged that Detroit ''certainly has a reputation that, at times, is not all that stellar,'' but he said last summer's baseball All-Star Game and other events had stoked the area's momentum and confidence.
 ''The downtown area has vibrancy,'' Lewand said. ''The stereotype of Detroit is not in current alignment with reality. The buzz is more positive.''
 And Lewand called Millen ''a stubborn, hard-driven old linebacker, and he's going to keep fighting until he gets it right.''
 There are few people with more insight into the Lions' up-and-down past and scuffling present, than Gary Danielson, a college football broadcaster who played quarterback for the team from 1976 to 1984.
 Danielson grew up in Dearborn, Mich., the site of Ford headquarters, and played for Divine Child High School in the city championship against Denby at Tiger Stadium in 1967.
 Danielson said an early family photograph showed him in a Lions jersey. His father put No. 22 on his back, in honor of Bobby Layne, Detroit's roustabout quarterback for the championship teams of 1952 and 1953. 
 ''I lived most people's dreams,'' Danielson said of his rise to Layne's position.
 Danielson said fans demonstrated angrily now because talk radio and the Internet made them feel empowered. ''They felt helpless for so long,'' Danielson said.
 He said visitors to the Super Bowl would discover ''a city trying to do the right thing'' despite its economic and social problems. He noted that although Detroiters would complain among themselves about local problems, including the Lions, they would turn sensitive when visitors made the same observations -- the way siblings support one another when someone outside the family turns critical.
 ''We've been through a lot of rough stuff,'' Danielson said. ''We're proud that our grandfathers and fathers and uncles worked in the car factories. We want to be recognized as tough, loyal people. You can see that in how we support football around the area, especially the Detroit Lions.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wally Triplett, one of the first African-American players in the N.F.L., played for the Lions in 1949 and 1950. The team's current situation is ''embarrassing,'' he said. Left, the Lions sacking the Packers' Bart Starr in a Thanksgiving Day victory in 1962, when the team was a power. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dick Tripp/The Detroit Free Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ATHLETES (76%); BOXING (74%); BASEBALL (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%) Football; Super Bowl

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); COMERICA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT LIONS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (59%); SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (56%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (56%); DETROIT TIGERS (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); CMA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%)

PERSON: Joe Lapointe

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



606 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Proto Beat

BYLINE: By BLAKE BAILEY. 
Blake Bailey is the author of ''A Tragic Honesty: The Life and Work of Richard Yates.'' He is working on a biography of John Cheever.

 BODY:
OVER THE RAINBOW? HARDLY
 Collected Short Seizures.
 By Chandler Brossard. 
 Edited by Steven Moore.
 322 pp. Sun Dog Press. Paper, $15.95.
Chandler Brossard (1922-93) began his career by impersonating E. B. White, which is a bit like saying Jackson Pollock was particularly influenced by Norman Rockwell. ''I was a multiple schizophrenic, if you like,'' Brossard once told Steven Moore, this volume's editor, ''but I was aching and aching to be a variety of people.'' He would get his wish. A young man from Idaho, largely self-educated, Brossard found a job as an editor at The New Yorker in the 1940's, where he admired the suave precision of White's ''Notes and Comment'' essays. By pretending to be his idol -- ''I literally put myself in the identity of E. B. White'' -- Brossard sold a few articles to the magazine that might have been written by the master himself. 
 Genteel litterateur by day and hipster by night, Brossard channeled the cool monotone of Camus's existentialist classic ''L'Etranger,'' for his first novel, ''Who Walk in Darkness'' (1952), regarded by some as a pioneering work of Beat fiction. With its cast of artists and intellectuals manques, its alienated narrator struggling for ''authenticity'' and of course its beatnik parties -- ''Another hipster came up to him and I saw him hand the tall one the already lit stick of tea'' -- the novel is a time capsule of postwar Greenwich Village.
 The French love hipsters and people who write like Camus, so it's not surprising that the book's first publisher was Gallimard in France. Its history in the United States was less fortunate. Delmore Schwartz, then an adviser to New Directions, noticed that certain characters in ''Who Walk in Darkness'' were based on friends of his -- William Gaddis, Milton Klonsky and Anatole Broyard, to name a few. Broyard had particular reason to complain: Brossard had not only characterized him as a phony, amoral womanizer, but also revealed Broyard's secret. ''People said Henry Porter was a 'passed' Negro,'' the novel originally began. Broyard threatened to sue, so New Directions rephrased the first line this way: ''People said Henry Porter was an illegitimate.'' 
 In fairness, though, it's unlikely Brossard would have ever written popular novels, and not because he wrote about transitory cultural types. He longed to be an innovator. On the jacket of ''Who Walk in Darkness,'' in fact, he promised that his next ''book of fiction'' would ''not be a novel because the author feels the novel is not adequate to express certain contemporary experiences.'' In any event, Brossard was reduced to near-destitution for his pains, and survived for a few years by writing steamy potboilers.
 The countercultural ethos of the 60's reanimated Brossard's ambition to be an innovator. For the rest of his life, satisfying only himself and the fugitive public of the small presses, he wrote what he called ''visionary fiction'': ''A true visionary fiction,'' he explained in a 1972 essay, ''like a myth structure, magically combines, orders and dramatizes multiple realities. A single level of action . . . does not hold sway, nor does arbitrary sequential time obtain sovereignty.'' To judge from the work that followed, this meant he wasn't interested in plot or point of view.
 ''Over the Rainbow? Hardly'' is a collection of Brossard's later work, some of it funny and sad, much of it pornographic, inscrutable or both. Still, the Sun Dog Press is to be praised for trying to revive a writer who wrote as he pleased and the world be damned; we've come a long way, after all, from an epoch when Bennett Cerf of Random House would not only take a bath publishing ''Absalom, Absalom!,'' but also sit at the author's bedside (''Bill, aren't you ashamed of yourself?'') while the author recovered from another bender. Sitting at Brossard's bedside, or putting a bunch of roses on his grave, is more or less what this venture amounts to.
 The contents of ''Over the Rainbow'' are hard to describe. There's a series of obscene fairy tales and a few pages of middling poetry, but mostly the work here is composed of comic, enigmatic vignettes that may or may not have some common theme -- ''visionary fiction,'' if you like. The best of these is ''Raging Joys, Sublime Violations,'' the result of Brossard's interest in the antiwar movement of the 60's and 70's. ''An amusing thought,'' Brossard wrote in a 1969 book review. ''The true absurdists of our time are not the avant-garde at all; they are institutional realists.'' Black humor was pretty much the order of the day, but Brossard puts it to good use in ''Raging Joys,'' a collection of sketches featuring the likes of Dean Acheson saying what he might have said if he were the sinister fascist envisioned by Brossard: ''Golden rule numero uno,'' Acheson explains: ''stick with your own ruling class and never give a commie or a left-handed dago . . . an even break.'' Also, Jackie Kennedy submits to the rough charms of an English sheepdog while Hubert Humphrey remarks to her husband: ''You'd better check out that dog's security clearance, Jack. It could be Nixon's brother in disguise.'' 
 I have nothing against pornography, unless it lapses into pretentious intellectualizing. Does sex ''lead to philosophy?'' Brossard wonders in ''A Chimney Sweep Comes Clean.'' To paraphrase Woody Allen, not if it's done right; but the people in these sketches can hardly steal a caress without waxing metaphysical. ''What I am hoping to cast some light upon is this,'' a woman remarks, while being fondled by a pervert: ''the prototypical Englishman-woman is held together by an anxiety system that prevents him from seeing or otherwise making significant contact with emotions or events that would precipitate an irrevocably intimate moment of thereness.'' 
 One might be kinder to Brossard if he hadn't made such large claims for his own importance (''visionary,'' etc.), or if Steven Moore -- in the course of an otherwise readable introduction -- didn't insist on eulogizing every scrap of Brossard's work, no matter how banal. ''By 'outing' the sexual symbolism latent in fairy tales,'' Moore writes of ''Dirty Books for Little Folks,'' a parody unremarkable save for its smut, ''Brossard not only dramatizes the tales' erotic tensions but also draws attention to other dynamics at work therein, such as power structures, class struggles and economic exploitation.'' Since Moore is the kind of quasi-academic writer who can make ''Batman'' seem a work of exquisite subtlety, the reader of ''Dirty Books'' is prepared for something better than, say, dopey double-entendre names (Klaus von Quicklicker, Mistress Lowbottom) or an incestuous, hash-smoking Hansel and Gretel. For what it's worth, Brossard himself thought his fairy tales ''would have made childhood substantially richer . . . less feeble-minded and smelly.'' Maybe. I won't be reading them to my daughter anytime soon, though. 
 In truth, a little of Brossard's writing goes a long way. ''I don't know why people read fiction,'' he once said -- ominously -- and as for his own work: ''Maria'' -- his wife -- ''explains to me from time to time: 'You may be unaware, Chandler, but half an hour around you can be very exhausting for most people.' '' Amen to that. Brossard's later work was positively enervating. ''Sentences crumbled into fragments . . . leaving only disembodied voices,'' Moore writes, as if this were a good thing. If Sun Dog Press or some other publisher chooses, in the future, to issue an abridgment of this 322-page collection, they might consider omitting his baffling last works. ''Gravediggers cannot be expected to have style,'' one of them begins. Then the next section: ''Isn't it about time we laid down some guidelines for intimacy?'' And the next: ''The poacher and free will?'' And so on.
 It's like listening to a lonely man mumbling to himself -- and loneliness, it seems, was very much to the point. ''I've never felt comfortable with other people at all,'' Brossard admitted toward the end of his life. And so perhaps he kept company with the voices in his head, his various babbling personae, and wrote it all down for the benefit of some possible kindred soul.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Steven Moore)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); LITERATURE (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Blake Bailey; Steven Moore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%); FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



607 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: 10 Enron Players: Where They Landed After the Fall

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees. 
 Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
While they are probably the best known of the Enron characters, there were many others who played supporting roles. Some have admitted to helping artificially increase profits and hide losses and debts. Others tried to blow the whistle on the deceptions. 
 Some have moved on to other jobs and new chapters in their lives, while others continue to spend their days mired in their legal fights.
 Here are 10 of the major figures and where they are now. 

Vincent J. Kaminski
Sounding the Alarm But Unable to Prevail
 For months before Enron's demise, Vincent J. Kaminski warned superiors that the off-the-books partnerships and side deals engineered by Mr. Fastow were unethical and could bring down the company. As Enron's managing director for research, Mr. Kaminski was responsible for quantitative modeling to assist the energy traders and other parts of the business.
 Mr. Kaminski's disgust with Mr. Fastow's deals eventually exploded into an internal war with Enron's global finance department in the fall of 2001. As his anger mounted, he refused to sign off on documents related to the partnerships known as the Raptors that Mr. Fastow had created, and he instructed his team of internal Enron consultants to refuse to do any work for the finance department. 
 His efforts fell on deaf ears. Earlier, in March 2001, he went to Mr. Glisan, the company's treasurer, and presented a report from a midlevel analyst saying that Mr. Fastow's deals had created a threat to Enron's survival, in part because of stock price ''triggers'' that would require bank loans to be repaid if Enron's credit rating was downgraded and the stock price fell.
 Mr. Kaminski, who was born in Poland, trained as an economist and has a business degree, stayed at Enron until early 2002. Afterward, he found many companies eager to hire him. He remained in the energy industry, working first at the Citadel Investment Group, a hedge fund based in Chicago, and later at Sempra Energy and Reliant Energy.
 Last March, Mr. Kaminski, 57, landed at Citigroup, where he conducts quantitative modeling for the bank's trading operation based in Houston. He also teaches at the business school of Rice University and has been a contributing writer and editor of books on energy risk management and energy trading.
 Mr. Kaminski is well known in the energy industry for his loyalty to the brainy minds he often recruited from top universities worldwide. As Enron was collapsing, Mr. Kaminski helped all 50 of his former research staff members find jobs elsewhere. ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); WRITERS (71%); INSIDER TRADING (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Biographical Information; Frauds and Swindling; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); SEMPRA ENERGY (54%); CITADEL INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Enron Corp; Citigroup Inc; Enron Corp

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); SRE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (54%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo; Vincent J Kaminski; Kenneth L Lay; Jeffrey K Skilling; Andrew S Fastow

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



608 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: 10 Enron Players: Where They Landed After the Fall

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees. 
 Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
While they are probably the best known of the Enron characters, there were many others who played supporting roles. Some have admitted to helping artificially increase profits and hide losses and debts. Others tried to blow the whistle on the deceptions. 
 Some have moved on to other jobs and new chapters in their lives, while others continue to spend their days mired in their legal fights.
 Here are 10 of the major figures and where they are now. 

Kenneth D. Rice
Consummate Salesman From the Broadband Unit
 Kenneth D. Rice held several posts during his 20-year career at Enron, including chief executive of its high-speed Internet unit. Raised on a farm in Broken Bow, Neb., Mr. Rice earned a degree in electrical engineering from the University of Nebraska and an M.B.A. from Creighton University in Omaha. 
 With his boyish good looks and rakish ways, he was known as a consummate salesman. Mr. Rice raced Ferraris and motorcycles and was a favorite of Mr. Skilling, accompanying him on trips to Patagonia, the Australian Outback and Baja, Mexico.
 He was indicted in 2003 on more than 40 charges, including fraud and conspiracy. He and other executives in Enron's broadband division were accused of making misleading statements about the capabilities of the technology and the performance of their division, resulting in an artificial inflation in the value of Enron stock. Mr. Rice then sold the stock at those high prices, the indictment said; he sold 1.2 million shares for more than $76 million. Mr. Rice pleaded guilty in 2004 to one count of securities fraud and agreed to cooperate with federal prosecutors. The other charges were dropped. The length of his jail term will depend on how helpful he is to government investigators. 
 He testified at a trial last year against co-workers accused of fraud at Enron's broadband unit. The jury was unable to reach a verdict, and the case is to be retried in September. 
 Mr. Rice is also expected to testify against Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling. Moreover, Mr. Rice is a defendant in several shareholder lawsuits. With his plea, he agreed to forfeit a vacation home in Telluride, Colo., cars, cash and other property totaling $13.7 million. 
 He lives in Bellaire, a Houston suburb, with his wife, a pediatrician who was his high school sweetheart. They have four school-age children. KATE MURPHY


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); BROADBAND (87%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); VERDICTS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); ETHICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (71%); INSIDER TRADING (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); ENGINEERING (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%) Biographical Information; Frauds and Swindling; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Suits and Litigation; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: CREIGHTON UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%) Enron Corp; Enron Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: Kate Murphy; Kenneth D Rice; Kenneth L Lay; Jeffrey K Skilling

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (69%) NEBRASKA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); MEXICO (79%); AUSTRALIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



609 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Putting the Motor City Back in Gear

BYLINE: By PETER EDIDIN

 BODY:
THE American car industry bled some more last week. Ford said it would cut 30,000 jobs and close 14 plants, while General Motors reported an $8.6 billion loss for 2005. 
 It was, said James P. Womack, a manufacturing expert, ''the sad story of two armies in retreat, a retreat that is feeling more and more like a rout.''
Whether retreat or rout, what can be done to reverse the fortunes of Detroit's Big Three? Five auto industry analysts tried to answer that question in interviews. Excerpts follow. PETER EDIDIN

The Industry Researcher
David Cole is chairman of the Center for Automotive Research, in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 The most important thing that happened last week is that there is a sense of urgency. This crisis is very deep, very fundamental. 
 What we have right now is a perfect storm for the industry. Health care costs have been rising at three times inflation; there have been rapid increases in material prices -- steel, aluminum, every commodity -- driven by Asian demand; there has been the effect of fuel price increases in an industry that has not had a real rise in prices in 10 years because world capacity is 80 million cars a year, while sales are 60 million. 
 On the good, side, G.M.'s health care liabilities peak in 2008 and then decline rapidly. Ford's will take a little longer to unload because its work force has a younger average age. But other carmakers, like Honda, which hired a lot of people in midcareer when they came here, are starting to pick up costs, which levels the playing field. 
 So things are beginning to shift, but it's a slow process. The quality of American cars is pretty much at par now, but consumer perception still trails the reality.
 Could General Motors and Ford survive and thrive? Sure. But it's not a sure thing. 

The Consultant
Larry Keeley is president of Doblin, a consultancy that specializes in innovation and has worked with the car industry.
 The whole American automobile industry -- the manufacturers, parts makers, unions -- ranks in the bottom third of all industries in innovation. This is a collective pattern I've never seen in any other industry. 
 The industry learned to think in terms of vehicle platforms, so that if I design a four-wheel-drive vehicle, then I try to pay for that several hundred-million-dollar investment by making a Cadillac version, a Buick version and a Chevy version, all fundamentally the same. Then I go to marketing and say, ''Make people feel differently about all of them.'' Customers aren't that dumb.
 The industry needs a wider lens; it needs to stop obsessing with the production efficiencies and to think about how people live their lives. The issue is not to give people more horsepower or electronic entertainment, but more confidence and relevance as they drive. Say you're a senior. A better car for you isn't about changing the vehicle look, but maybe it's about giving you a smart parking system, so that the car parks itself.
 I know of only one great project in the history of the auto industry that focused on optimizing cars for women. It was at one of the Big Three in Detroit. It got killed. 

The Car Guy
Jesse James is a car customizer and star of the cable TV show ''Monster Garage.''
 It used to be, growing up, that you were a Ford or a Chevy guy. But now all of the American car companies are the same. 
 There's a competition in the middle-of-the-road car -- the Audis and Toyotas and Hondas. These are great cars, with great performance. What is the American equivalent to that? I don't think there is one.
 Look underneath a Mercedes or an Audi. It's all stainless steel and aluminum, built to last. I don't think we build stuff to last. In 1998, I bought an El Dorado. At 30,000 miles, it started to fall apart. 
 Detroit forgot the groundwork of Henry Ford: to make a car that anyone could buy. And to and make it nice and a pioneer in technology. I'm working on a hydrogen-powered car. Ford even has a motor I could have used, but they didn't see a value in the project. But the Europeans are doing research on this, and the Japanese are, too. 
 Society's changing. Look, I'm a biker with tattoos, but I drive a Mercedes Smart Car and I would drive a hydrogen-powered one. 

The Professor
Thomas Hughes is professor emeritus in the history of science and technology at the University of Pennsylvania.
 The idea of momentum, or inertia, in business history needs to be taken seriously. What happens when companies are caught in a momentum trap is that research and innovation become incremental, so that nothing fundamental changes. 
 What Detroit has to do is break its own momentum. This sometimes happens due to forces often beyond the control of a corporation. For example, rising gas prices may well break the momentum that pertains to the design of the automobile. 
 And it might be well for people in positions of influence in the Big Three to read the history of the American steel industry. That industry had similar problems. It had the problem of overwhelming momentum and wasn't able to adjust to foreign competition, reduced demand and so on. 
 On the basis of what I've seen so far, however, I'm not hopeful. The people speaking for the auto industry now don't seem to be challenging the status quo. 
 I think they should be searching for outsiders. It may take someone like Napoleon, who reorganized the French Army. He came from an unconventional background, and he was able to bring on people like himself, people committed to change.

The Consumer Advocate
Ralph Nader has been a recognized critic of the car industry since 1965, when he published ''Unsafe at Any Speed: The Designed-In Dangers of the American Automobile.''
 G.M. management today is eerily similar to when I started in the 60's: inbred, unwilling to change, sitting on their engineers and scientists and disregarding their suppliers. 
 If I was appointed head of General Motors, I would convene all the company's scientists and engineers and say: ''Here is my first decision: I'm getting out of your way.''
 Then I would announce that we were going to build the most technologically advanced cars in the world, and start by building the safest cars. 
 Detroit can move on safety and reducing repair costs very quickly, by reducing the number of models they sell and concentrating on the ones left. Then they can begin to improve service through their dealers. 
 They don't even use their own best practices. Ford cars aren't as safe as Volvos, even though Ford owns Volvo. And Opel bumpers in Europe are better than G.M. bumpers, even though G.M. owns Opel. So they should begin to highlight their own best practices immediately.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); RANKINGS (70%); MOTORCYCLES (64%) 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp ; Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%) Peter Edidin; David Cole; Larry Keeley; Jesse (Motorcycle Designer) James; Thomas Hughes; Ralph Nader

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



610 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: She Changed America

BYLINE: By JUDITH WARNER. 
Judith Warner is the host of ''The Judith Warner Show'' on XM satellite radio. She is the author, most recently, of ''Perfect Madness: Motherhood in the Age of Anxiety.''

 BODY:
PHYLLIS SCHLAFLY AND
 GRASSROOTS CONSERVATISM
 A Woman's Crusade.
 By Donald T. Critchlow.
 Illustrated. 422 pp. 
 Princeton University Press. $29.95.
THE equal rights amendment is simple and, it would seem, utterly innocuous: ''Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.''
 When it was approved by the House and Senate and sent to the states for ratification in March 1972, its success seemed assured. Thirty state legislatures ratified the amendment within a year. Presidents Nixon, Ford and Carter all lent their support. Yet in 1982 the E.R.A. died, just a few states short of ratification. By then, it had become linked in the public mind with military conscription for 18-year-old girls, coed bathrooms and homosexual rights. That public relations coup was largely the work of one clever, charming, ambitious, energetic and forever ladylike woman: Phyllis Schlafly. 
 Schlafly has, for the better part of the past 50 years, been a one-woman right-wing communications empire. Through her speeches, books, radio addresses and monthly newsletter, The Phyllis Schlafly Report, she has supported the nuclear arms race, Barry Goldwater, the Strategic Defense Initiative and phonics, and has bashed whole language learning, Communism at home and abroad, strategic arms limitation treaties, Nixon's diplomatic overtures to China, Nelson Rockefeller, Henry Kissinger, Roe v. Wade and ''Eastern elites.'' And, as Donald T. Critchlow attests in this biography, ''Phyllis Schlafly and Grassroots Conservatism: A Woman's Crusade,'' she saved special venom for the ''anti-family, anti-children, and pro-abortion'' feminist movement.
 Schlafly founded her (eventually) powerful Eagle Forum in 1975 as ''the alternative to women's lib.'' She opposed the E.R.A. on the grounds that it would take away the ''special protection'' the ''Christian tradition of chivalry'' offered women -- in other words, the ''right'' to be ''supported and protected'' by men. ''Those women lawyers, women legislators, and women executives promoting E.R.A. have plenty of education and talent to get whatever they want in the business, political and academic world,'' is how one anti-E.R.A. letter distributed to Ohio state legislators put it. ''We, the wives and working women, need you, dear Senators and Representatives, to protect us.''
 Not too surprisingly, Betty Friedan once said she'd like to burn Schlafly at the stake. A demonstrator threw a pie in her face. And despite the fact that her widely read campaign book ''A Choice Not an Echo'' helped secure him the presidential nomination, Goldwater kept Schlafly at arm's length in his 1964 campaign. She was, some of his advisers felt, just too conservative.
 In many ways, Phyllis Schlalfy, nee Stewart, would seem an unlikely candidate for a life spent on the antifeminist front lines. She was raised in St. Louis by a working mother who kept her family afloat after her husband lost his job in the Great Depression. She was encouraged to excel academically by both her parents, who, Critchlow writes, believed ''their daughters should not be any less ambitious or educated than boys.''
 Schlafly received a four-year scholarship to a local Roman Catholic college, but left after a year because it wasn't sufficiently challenging. Instead, she decided to pay her own way through Washington University by taking on a full-time job firing rifles and machine guns to test ammunition at the St. Louis Ordnance Plant. She worked night shifts -- 4 p.m. to midnight or midnight to 8 a.m. -- and then attended morning classes. She graduated early, made Phi Beta Kappa and called the ordeal ''the most wonderful two years of my life, a beautiful experience.''
 Schlafly got a master's degree from Radcliffe, established herself professionally and achieved economic self-sufficiency, then married a St. Louis man with whom she bonded intellectually. (They took an extra suitcase of books along for the honeymoon.) Comfortably settled in a mansion in Fairmount, Ill., she had six children and rose to national prominence, first as an ardent anti-Communist, then as an antifeminist crusader.
 Why would such an independent-minded, ambitious, self-motivated and capable woman devote so much effort to making sure that members of her sex would benefit from their dependence upon men? How could Schlafly reconcile her professed anti-elitism and opposition to day care with the fact that, although presenting herself as a traditional wife and mother, she ran for Congress twice, campaigned hard for Goldwater, crisscrossed the country speaking out for conservative causes, wrote more than a dozen books and enjoyed the services of a housekeeper who stayed with her family for 26 years?
 There are no answers to be found in ''Phyllis Schlafly and Grassroots Conservatism'' because, despite having had access to Schlafly's personal papers and having benefited from occasional conversations with Schlafly about those papers, Critchlow has no particular feel for her as a woman. More generally, he lacks critical distance and scholarly skepticism.
 He is particularly indulgent of Schlafly and her Christian conservative allies when they engage in quite un-Christian behavior. When, for example, Schlafly and other ''moral conservatives'' revolted at the 1960 Republican convention after Richard Nixon supported a civil rights plank (proposed by Nelson Rockefeller) demanding ''aggressive action'' against segregation and discrimination, Critchlow is quick to defend them. ''The difference between the Rockefeller plank and the original civil rights plank actually was not very much,'' he asserts, ''and probably most Republicans agreed'' with the antidiscrimination provision. They were against it only because ''conservatives were going to oppose whatever Rockefeller proposed.'' (Critchlow doesn't set the bar too high in these matters. He suggests that drawing attention to Goldwater's vote against the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is ''unfair,'' and extols Senator Strom Thurmond's comparatively ''liberal views on race'' in his early political career in South Carolina.)
 Critchlow does note that Schlafly, like many other hard-right conservatives, has long been preoccupied with certain ''well-financed'' minorities -- ''Eastern Establishment'' elites with ''internationalist'' viewpoints who ''shared strategies to expand their political and financial influence.'' For her, these elites are epitomized by Henry Kissinger, whom Schlafly and her co-author, Rear Adm. Chester Ward, described in the final pages of their 1975 polemic, ''Kissinger on the Couch,'' in this fashion: ''Henry, say some who know him well, has no God. Does he have a country?''
 Critchlow points out that Schlafly ''never identified Jews as part of any conspiracy,'' but then she didn't have to: phrases that invoke godless, countryless ''well-financed'' minorities are a well-recognized code among those who fear world domination by Wall Street and the Trilateral Commission. But Critchlow, a professor of history at St. Louis University, lets all this wink-winking go on without comment.
 Because Critchlow essentially speaks the same language as Schlafly and her cohort, unquestioningly using terms like ''moral'' and ''Christian'' and ''pro-family,'' it'sdifficult to grant his book the objective authority to which it aspires. Critchlow can't begin to answer the more profound questions Schlafly's life and work raise because, for him, her answer -- that she's living in step with traditional Christian values -- is sufficient. Such words appear to be as rich in meaning for him as they are for Schlafly and the grass-roots right she represents. But for secular readers -- or for those who define words like ''religion'' and ''morality'' or even ''values'' differently -- they amount to an intellectual void.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Phyllis Schlafly in Washington at a demonstration against the equal rights amendment, 1977. (Photograph by Bettmann/Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); CONSERVATISM (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMS RACE (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); LITERATURE (71%); CHILDREN (70%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (65%); ABORTION (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (54%) Judith Warner; Phyllis Schlafly; Donald T Critchlow

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



611 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: The Great Delegator

BYLINE: By ADRIAN WOOLDRIDGE. 
Adrian Wooldridge is the Washington bureau chief of The Economist and the author, with John Micklethwait, of ''The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America.''

 BODY:
PRESIDENT REAGAN
 The Triumph of Imagination.
 By Richard Reeves.
 Illustrated. 571 pp. Simon & Schuster. $30.
ON the afternoon before the opening of the Group of 7 summit meeting in 1983, James Baker, the White House chief of staff, dropped in on Ronald Reagan to deliver a briefing book. The United States was the host of the conference, the only one held on American soil during the Reagan presidency; the administration had pre-emptively billed the meeting as a triumph; and Baker, worried about his boss's lack of preparation and aware that ''Reaganomics'' wasn't universally popular, had taken a lot of trouble compiling the briefings, which were both concise and comprehensive. On returning the next morning, Baker was furious to discover that the book lay exactly where he had left it -- and confronted his boss with his failure to do his prep. Reagan's unflustered reply: ''Well, Jim, 'The Sound of Music' was on last night.'' 
 Ronald Reagan is a gold mine of presidential anecdotes (this one is from Lou Cannon). But try to understand the man behind the yarns and the gold turns to dross. His official biographer, Edmund Morris, found him such an elusive figure that he resorted to the Reaganesque technique of mixing fact with fiction, producing a dog's dinner of a book. There are wonderful books about the world that created Reaganism, most notably Steven Hayward's ''Age of Reagan.'' There are impressive studies of this problem or that policy. But anybody who wants to understand the man must still return to Cannon, who was Reagan's ''journalistic shadow,'' in Richard Reeves's words, in both Sacramento and Washington, and who produced monumental studies of his time as governor and president.
 One reason Reagan is so difficult to understand is the contrast between achievement and effort. Reagan was undoubtedly a ''transformative'' president -- arguably the most important since Franklin D. Roosevelt. He restored confidence in America after the malaise of the Carter years; re-energized the presidency after the trauma of Watergate; and revolutionized assumptions about what government could and couldn't do. His economic policies supercharged incentives for entrepreneurs, who were taking over from big companies as the engines of the economy; and his huge arms buildup put timely pressure on the crumbling Soviet system.
 Yet the man who presided over such dramatic changes was frequently out to lunch. He was never exactly a Stakhanovite: he started his day with the comics and took frequent time for naps, sometimes in cabinet meetings. But as his presidency wore on, his mind began to fail, the victim, as it turned out, of incipient dementia.
 The other reason he is so elusive is the contrast between his geniality and his remoteness. Reagan had the gift of likability, always ready with a smile and a joke. Yet he didn't really need people. He was perfectly content with his own company -- reading conservative publications or watching old movies -- and he tended to treat people as either hired help or an audience. Martin Anderson, an adviser, described him as ''the most warmly ruthless man I've ever seen.'' ''You can get just so far to Ronnie, and then something happens,'' said Nancy, who was probably the only person who really got close to him. 
 Now Reeves brings a biographical technique that he has honed in two previous books -- on Kennedy and Nixon -- to the Reagan enigma. The essence of this technique is to focus on the goals that his subjects set for themselves and then immerse the reader in a river of narrative. ''I have tried to show what it was like for each of these men to be president,'' he explains. This makes for refreshingly nonjudgmental books (though Reeves is clearly no fan of Reagan's economic policies); it also makes for highly readable ones, with the president's goals providing a spine but never getting in the way of the unfolding story.
 Reeves is unlikely to displace Lou Cannon as the Virgil of Reaganland. He spends too much time reciting the daily headlines; he sometimes loses sight of his central characters in the rush of events; the whole effect is of a story written from a distance rather than with insider's knowledge. Still, for all these faults, ''President Reagan'' is a compelling read, fast-paced and scrupulously fair. The account of the Iran-contra affair is particularly gripping. Anybody who is interested in Reagan's extraordinary presidency needs to reckon with Reeves.
 Reeves argues that Reagan was a master of both imagination and delegation. He stuck firmly to a small number of clear goals -- reducing the size of government, restoring America's power and pride, and facing down Communism -- and then delegated implementation to the ''fellas.'' He did not so much do things as persuade others to do them for him. But his preference for delegation should not be confused with passivity. He insisted on using the phrase ''tear down this wall'' against the advice of his underlings, for example. The arms control deals that crowned his administration would have been impossible without his mixture of sci-fi fantasy and idealism. A Russian note taker who watched him carefully at two summit meetings likened him to an aged lion. If the prey was 10 feet away, he couldn't be bothered to move; but when it wandered to within 8 feet, he suddenly came to life -- and Reagan the negotiator dominated the room.
 Reagan's imagination was fired by ideology but tempered by pragmatism. He was a product of the conservative revival of the 1950's and 60's, a revival that was driven by a combination of free-market enthusiasm and antitax fervor, superpatriotism and anti-Communism, religious revivalism and, to be frank, wild-eyed lunacy, and he possessed a rare gift for rendering conservative ideas into emotion-laden rhetoric. Even as a senior citizen in the White House, Reagan was a sucker for far-out conservative ideas: from the ''space lasers'' that were being championed in Human Events (which his aides tried to prevent him from reading) to Arthur Laffer's supply-side economics.
 Yet this ideological zeal coexisted with a canny pragmatism. The man who slashed the top rate of tax in 1981 later raised taxes and fees by more than $80 billion a year; the man who championed ''creative destruction'' introduced ''voluntary'' export restraints on Japanese cars; and the man who denounced the Soviet Union as an ''evil empire'' ended up traveling to Moscow to visit his ''friend'' Mikhail Gorbachev. This provoked a growing rumble of criticism from the right during his presidency. As Reeves writes about the Moscow summit meeting: ''The president threw an arm around Gorbachev's shoulder as they walked along like a couple of guys coming off the field after the big game. That was just too much for America's anti-Communist establishment.'' But most of these former critics have long ago forgotten their complaints -- and Reagan memorials are now springing up as fast as Wal-Marts. Among the many arts that conservatives have mastered is the art of fabricating heroes.
 Everybody will have his or her complaints about Reeves's sins of omission. He could have said more about Reagan's ideas (''good ones, bad ones and odd ones,'' as he puts it). He could have said more about the influence of the American West in shaping a man who was given the Secret Service nickname Rawhide. But in one area Reeves scores a bull's-eye: exposing the sheer strangeness of the Reagan years. Top billing goes to Iran-contra -- that remarkable story of semi-privatized foreign policy and Reaganauts gone wild. But there are plenty of other gems: Reagan going to sleep during Gorbachev's address to the Moscow conference; astrologers helping to decide everything from Reagan's choice of George Bush as his running mate to the president's schedule; the director of central intelligence, William Casey, mumbling so badly that Reagan couldn't hear a word he said (''the mumbling leading the deaf,'' according to one of the president's men); and Reagan trying to persuade a Southern Democrat to support the sale of Awacs to Saudi Arabia by reminding him the Bible tells us that Armageddon will begin in the Middle East and involve the Russians. If Reeves were in the thriller business, he would be accused of stretching the bounds of credibility; as things are, readers will simply have to keep pinching themselves, checking Reeves's footnotes and realizing that, yes, all this actually happened.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Ronald Reagan giving a radio address from the Oval Office. (Bettmann/Corbis)
Ronald Reagan, with (from top) former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher
King Fahd of Saudi Arabia
Mikhail Gorbachev
 former Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada. (Photographs by Gary Hershorn/Reuters, Larry Rubenstein/U.P.I.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WRITERS (77%); LITERATURE (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (96%); JIMMY CARTER (79%) Adrian Wooldridge; Richard Reeves; Ronald Wilson (1911-2004) Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



612 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2656 words

HEADLINE: When Terry Met Jerry, Yahoo!

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
WHEN Yahoo Inc. announced nearly five years ago that Terry S. Semel, then a former leader of the Warner Brothers motion picture studio, would become its chairman and chief executive, the reaction both outside and within Yahoo was not exactly one of wild encouragement. 
 Despite a hugely successful career running companies that make movies, television shows and music, Mr. Semel was immediately labeled an ''old media'' guy. Worse, he was a Hollywood guy, and had barely touched a computer during the nearly two decades he oversaw Warner Brothers with Robert A. Daly.
Even though he had been making private Internet investments since resigning from the studio two years earlier, when people associated ''Semel'' and ''Yahoo,'' they were more likely to think of an Australian comic named Yahoo Serious who starred in the 1988 Warner Brothers flop ''Young Einstein.'' Mr. Semel's former boss at Time Warner, Gerald M. Levin, who had just completed his merger with America Online, laughed incredulously when he heard the news of Mr. Semel's new gig in April 2001, according to an executive who was with Mr. Levin at the time. 
 At Yahoo, where the collapse of the dot-com bubble and the evaporation of online advertising had just helped sink the company's market value from a peak of $127 billion to just $12.6 billion when he joined, the reception wasn't much warmer. Mr. Semel, then 58, had neither geek cred like that of Yahoo's co-founders, Jerry Yang and David Filo, nor Silicon Valley venture-capitalist swagger. Mr. Semel looked like a self-assured but unassuming guy who originally hailed from Queens, which he was. Word spread quickly in Yahoo's headquarters in Sunnyvale, Calif., that -- horrors! -- he even wore a gold chain on his wrist. (This, too, was true, but the chain is not a fashion statement; it's a medical bracelet for a shellfish allergy.)
 The story line at Yahoo is much different today. Having lost $98 million on revenue of $717 million in the year when Mr. Semel joined it, Yahoo earned $1.2 billion last year on sales of $5.3 billion. With a market capitalization nudging $50 billion, it is worth roughly the same as the newly Pixar-ized Walt Disney Company or the combined value of the recently split Viacom and CBS. 
 Dollars aside, Yahoo has the widest global reach of any Internet site. It counts more than 420 million registered users around the world, and it owns the most-used e-mail, instant-messaging and music Web sites on the planet. In the United States alone, Yahoo attracted 103 million unique visitors in December, making it the country's most-visited Web destination, according to Nielsen NetRatings.
 ''It's a 21st-century media company,'' Mr. Semel said in a recent interview. ''The difference between the more traditional media companies and companies like Yahoo is all about technology, and the two -- technology and media -- totally marry each other.''
 Not all marriages go as planned, of course. It is highly symbolic that Mr. Semel was recently in the office of Time Warner's chief executive, Richard D. Parsons, proposing that Yahoo effectively take AOL off of Time Warner's hands, although Mr. Parsons was not interested. Depending on how it handles the rapid and daunting rise of Google's search-based juggernaut -- not to mention Microsoft's new determination to rule the Web -- Yahoo has a shot at being the digital media company to beat.
 IN the past two years, Mr. Semel has netted $403 million by exercising Yahoo options and selling shares. He still owns shares and options worth more than $230 million. The stock fell back last month amid concerns about whether Yahoo's revenue can continue to grow by 30 percent or more a year. The old-media guys, most of whom light up cigars if they can hit double-digit earnings growth, wish they had his problems.
 As he looks back over his five years running Yahoo, Mr. Semel makes no pretense of being a techno-guru, and he is often asked whether he really understands technology. ''I'm never going to be a technologist, but I have to be conversant,'' he said, adding: ''I was never an actor or a director or a singer -- I had to understand the process well enough to help make decisions.''
 Although he has apartments in San Francisco and New York, home is still in the Bel Air section of Los Angeles. He commutes to Sunnyvale three or four days a week on the Gulfstream IV corporate jet that he and Mr. Daly bought from Warner Brothers when they resigned in 1999. 
 ''Terry's a thoughtful, intelligent man and he did not take his media imperialist roots to Sunnyvale,'' said Barry Diller, the former Hollywood mogul who is now chairman and chief executive of IAC/InterActiveCorp. ''And that's what got him on the road to fluency, which he's mastered. That's some feat for an old-media dog, speaking as one who could be similarly described.''
 To hear Mr. Semel describe it, the revival at Yahoo is attributable to the same methodical style and emphasis on team-building and consumer desires that allowed him and Mr. Daly to increase Warner Brothers' revenue to more than $11 billion from less than $1 billion over nearly two decades. 
 But he concedes that there were unexpected contrasts between the old and the new that were not immediately apparent to him -- just as they seem to keep confounding many of his old-media colleagues.
 While all media rely on good content and distribution as underpinnings of their success, he said that the interactive world emphasizes qualities that the offline world doesn't, including truly global reach, personalization and community. All media companies recite these concepts, but are heavily invested in and dependent on preserving existing relationships based on controlling both their content and the way it moves to people. What is more, they have not grown up in a world where technology can be as much of a competitive edge as hiring Steven Spielberg to direct a picture.
 Perhaps the most glaring difference between Yahoo's vision of a media company and the visions of more conventional media groups is in the definition of content. In a world of high-speed connections to a growing web of material that audiences can consume or manipulate in endless ways, Yahoo strives to be a 24/7 global blockbuster of self-expression. ''Terry has said he's been very clear about the fact that the habits and the desires of the consumer are the common theme between his last career and his current career,'' Mr. Yang said.
 By the time he was hired, Yahoo already had the foundation for success -- most notably its number of worldwide users, more than 200 million, who did everything from checking business news and sports scores to sending e-mail and instant messages, listening to music and shopping. 
 But beyond the powerful brand and a company full of whizzes, there was no clear business strategy. The first thing Mr. Semel did was to streamline 44 business units into 4. That helped to set corporate priorities. ''Terry's relentless focus on focus is probably the most important thing we as a team or as a company are doing,'' Mr. Yang said. 
 Mr. Semel's first big decision -- and probably his shrewdest -- was to make advertising its mainstay business. At some of his earliest meetings at Yahoo, Mr. Semel recalled, some executives were advocating that the business instead pour its efforts into trying to extract monthly fees from its registered users. 
 ''He was very early on in thinking, 'if we can keep the users growing and we can keep growing usage, we will be able to monetize this and we will be able to create value,' '' said Mary Meeker, the Internet analyst at Morgan Stanley. ''It sounds like mom and apple pie, but that was something a lot of people did not get in 2001.''
 Mr. Semel was also keen to develop other revenue streams, including music services, games and premium e-mail accounts. Its absence in the dial-up Internet access business, where AOL and Microsoft had pole positions, seemed, in those days, a glaring disadvantage. Mr. Semel addressed this with his second smart move: establishing a partnership with SBC, now AT&T, to sell Yahoo-brand high-speed connections over souped-up phone lines. Yahoo later added Verizon, British Telecom and Rogers Communications in Canada, and now has 9.6 million subscribers, according to Morgan Stanley estimates. Each subscription generates an average of $3 a month for Yahoo.
 Vital to its focus on advertising was Yahoo's decision, in 2003, to develop its own search business -- built on the rapid-fire acquisitions of Inktomi and Overture, which itself had just bought AltaVista -- to compete with Google. That freed Yahoo from having to license Google's search technology. ''We hardly went to sleep after we started to understand their business,'' Mr. Semel said of Overture's service of placing sponsored links alongside relevant search results. (Overture has been rechristened as Yahoo Search Marketing.)
 Two years after introducing its own search engine, Yahoo trails only Google in that field. But it has also had to acknowledge that it is less effective than its rival at instantly matching relevant ads to search results. And Yahoo's share of the search market slipped to 30 percent in December from 32 percent in the same month a year earlier, while Google's share rose to 40 percent from 35 percent, according to ComScore Media Metrix. Improving the financial return on search advertising, Mr. Semel says, is in the works.
 Although search represents only 5 percent of activity on the Web, this is no small matter: the higher profit margins generated by Google's AdWords business are a big reason that Google's $128 billion market capitalization now dwarfs Yahoo's. (History will decide whether Google or, for that matter, Yahoo warrant their starry valuations in a market where the stocks of media companies with much higher revenues are being shunned by investors.) 
 Still, Mr. Semel contends that Yahoo's ability to blend brand and search advertising will set it apart as the Web continues its swift evolution. Susan L. Decker, Yahoo's finance chief, notes that most search advertisers are already online one way or another and tend to be small or midsized companies. But, she said, many major corporations are still spending only a small percentage of their marketing budgets online. 
 Without content that people want, of course, advertising is moot. Yahoo has gained attention in the past year for developing original programming, based out of a new Yahoo Media complex in Santa Monica, Calif. 
 Columnists have been hired for its news sites, reporters are hatching multimedia presentations and the inevitable online reality show is in the works. Yahoo wants to be the largest online video hub, streaming everything from news clips and movie trailers to Howard Stern stunts and NASA missions. Last year, it streamed four billion music videos, enough to fill the schedules of a lot of MTV channels.
 Mr. Semel says he sees the company's original content efforts as small steps toward figuring out what works on the Internet. But he and his colleagues are clearly more enamored of the prospects for distributing so-called old-media content. ''Yahoo wants to create an environment where people can find all the content they want,'' said Dan Rosensweig, Yahoo's chief operating officer. ''That's why we're going to be a great partner to the media companies.'' 
 PARTNER, sure, but rival, too. Consider the News Corporation's online moves, particularly its purchase of MySpace.com, a fast-growing social-networking Web site. The News Corporation intends for it to be the online equivalent of the early Fox network: an alternative that will draw young audiences from Yahoo and elsewhere. 
 More directly, America Online repositioned itself as a free portal last year, thus becoming a direct rival of Yahoo. ''I think they're going to be tough competitors going forward,'' said Mr. Parsons, Time Warner's chief executive. He added that he considered AOL's portal competitive to Yahoo's, but he acknowledged that Yahoo had a lead in several areas, including its reach overseas.
 Mr. Semel and his Yahoo colleagues are most eager to encourage their registered users, who represent roughly 40 percent of the one billion people now online globally, to create their own content. Yahoo executives say that social networks, blogs, message boards and sites where users from around the world share material -- like the recent Yahoo acquisitions Flickr, a photo-sharing business, and Del.icio.us, where people swap information on favorite Web sites and other things -- are the keys to a fast-emerging media market. 
 Across Yahoo's overflowing campus of purple cubicles in Sunnyvale, Calif., teams are working on a range of products -- with names like Yahoo360, Y!Q, Yahoo Mindset, MyWeb 2.0 and Yahoo Answers -- that use Web-searching as a ribbon for tying together virtual communities. MyWeb 2.0, for example, bills itself as a ''social search engine'' that lets users tag search results they may want to come back to and to share those results with cyberfriends.
 At a media company like Warner Brothers, central factors for success include managing talent, financial acumen, guiding a ''Batman'' or a ''Friends'' to a debut and understanding how to market it. While many online efforts by media companies have focused on building direct and deeper connections with audiences, these have largely amounted to virtual fan clubs and stores for media brands and products. 
 Lately, Yahoo and other Internet companies have been enamored of the notion of connecting communities of people who, say, are fans of Batman but also share an affinity for mountain biking or Indian food. Thanks to new services intended to extend Yahoo's network beyond computer screens to phones, TV's and other gadgets, these communities can stay in constant contact.
 Jeff Weiner, Yahoo's senior vice president for search and marketplace, came up with the acronym FUSE to sum up Yahoo's social networking ambitions: to ''find, use, share and expand all human knowledge.'' This sounds awfully high-minded for a company whose logo ends in an exclamation point, but it underscores another difference between old and new in a cynical age: ''People come to work trying to change things,'' Mr. Weiner said. 
 They also come to work knowing that the Internet is a field of dreams without barriers to entry. If you don't build it, someone else will -- most likely Google. Technology is what allows Yahoo to start these services and to tie them together on a global scale. ''Almost from the first day I came to Yahoo,'' Mr. Semel said, ''I realized that every strategy we were considering had to be related to the quality of our technology.'' 
 Farzad Nazem, a Yahoo veteran who is its chief technology officer, stressed that point. ''Most of the old-media companies treat technology as an afterthought. It's part of the execution, but it's never part of the planning,'' he said. ''In the new world, it's almost the reverse.'' 
 AND it's probably no surprise that, faced with the rapid rise of Google and growing competition from AOL and Microsoft's MSN, Yahoo has been hiring engineers and opening research centers. Last year it added 220 people a month and now employs about 10,000. 
 ''We try to present a consumer-friendly and, as much as possible, a humanized version of the Internet,'' said Mr. Yang. ''It's fair to say we don't go out and talk about ourselves as a tech company like Google or Microsoft. That is a very deliberate message we want to send out.'' 
 It is a message that played to Mr. Semel's strengths. Mr. Daly, the former Warner Brothers executive, remembers telling nay-sayers that they were wrong to underestimate his old friend: 
 ''I told them, 'You don't understand Terry Semel. He knows what they need, and that is to bring a sense of not only leadership but marketing and how to put things together.' At Yahoo, he is the father.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: When Jerry Yang, left, a founder of Yahoo, invited Terry Semel to take charge of the company in 2001, skeptics scoffed. But Yahoo has thrived under Mr. Semel's control. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 The top echelon at Yahoo includes Farzad Nazem, left, chief technology officer, Susan Decker, chief financial officer, and Dan Rosensweig, chief operating officer. Terry Semel, their leader, emphasizes team-building. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INSTANT MESSAGING (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); MERGERS (72%); ALLERGIES (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); FOOD ALLERGIES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Electronic Mail; Company and Organization Profiles; Music; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); WALT DISNEY CO (62%); AOL INC (56%); VIACOM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Yahoo Inc

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); DIS (NYSE) (62%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (62%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (62%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (62%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (62%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%)

PERSON: TERRY SEMEL (94%); JERRY YANG (89%); DAVID FILO (58%) Terry Semel; Richard Siklos

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



613 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: A Proposal to Add More Commuter Trains

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
As the second part of a multibillion-dollar transportation package first introduced last year, Gov. M. Jodi Rell rolled out a plan last Sunday that would add commuter train service to the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield corridor during the next 10 years. 
 Mrs. Rell proposed running eight trains a day in each direction on existing track.
 ''If the service is there and it's convenient for people, they'll use it,'' said Judd Everhart, a spokesman for the governor. ''Governor Rell thinks the best way to get people off the highway and to decrease congestion is to provide attractive alternatives. Decent modern train service would be one way to do that.''
 Mrs. Rell did not say how much the proposal would cost. The plan will be introduced to the General Assembly when it reconvenes on Feb. 8. New train stations would be opened for the commuter line in North Haven, Newington and Enfield, and buses would run between the Windsor Locks railroad station and Bradley International Airport. The line's southern terminus would be Union Station in New Haven.
 Richard M. Stowe of New Canaan, who founded the statewide Rail Transportation Excellence Coalition, a mass-transit advocacy group, said he was pleased with the governor's interest in the rail service. 
 ''I think she clearly understands the depressing effect that our existing car-first infrastructure is having on the state's economic and environmental well-being,'' he said.
 A tax increase is not part of the deal, the governor said. Rather, the plan would be paid for by transferring part of the tax revenues from petroleum gross receipts to the Special Transportation Fund from the state's General Fund, she said in a news release. JANE GORDON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%) Railroads; Commuting; Railroads; Airports; Bradley International Airport (Windsor Locks, Conn)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (92%) M Jodi (Gov) Rell; Jane Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%) Connecticut ; New Haven (Conn); Hartford (Conn); Springfield (Conn); North Haven (Conn); Newington (Conn); Enfield (Conn); Windsor Locks (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



614 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: Ex-Ex-Ex-Men; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: The Remarrying Kind

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
FOR Ronald O. Perelman, Forbes magazine's 34th-richest man in America, marriage would seem to be getting expensive: last week, he announced that he was divorcing his fourth wife, the actress Ellen Barkin, and would pay out the $20 million promised in their prenuptial pact -- having paid $8 million, $80 million and $30 million, respectively, to Wives 1, 2 and 3.
 While matchmakers among the ultrarich are already speculating about who will be wife No. 5, others might reasonably ask why Mr. Perelman and other serial grooms in his jet set don't take the actor George Clooney's ''never again'' approach: Date ferociously, but don't marry. As one prominent New York divorce lawyer said of an 85-year-old client now negotiating his fourth prenup, ''Don't you think he would stop?'' 
''They marry people who listen to completely different music, who don't know who Joe McCarthy was,'' bemoaned the lawyer, who would not be quoted by name for fear of angering his clients. ''They have less chance with every one that it's going to succeed.''
 So why do the ultrarich marry, and re-marry, and re-marry? For men who have cycled through what Harriet Newman Cohen, a New York divorce lawyer, called ''very high powered, high ZIP code divorces,'' marriage, more than dating, fills old traditions of respectability, status and comfort. It might even be love, for a while. Plus, they can afford it. 
 Nationwide, the number of people living together instead of marrying has risen strikingly in the last 30 years, just as the percentage of married couples has declined. ''The poorer people I've interviewed talk about waiting until they reach a certain economic status to get married,'' said Pamela Smock, a sociology professor at the University of Michigan who studies marriage, cohabitation and divorce. ''They want the house and the picket fence and two cars; they're not going to get married until they get there, and a lot never will.''
 But for the ultrarich, things are different. People in Mr. Perelman's position, she said, ''can get there over and over and over again.''
 Marriage and money have had a long courtship. But historically, men gained money, not lost it, when they remarried. 
 ''From the Middle Ages through the 16th century, marriage was the main way that upper-class families consolidated wealth,'' said Stephanie Coontz, the author of ''Marriage: A History.'' ''They effected business mergers, made trading alliances, and the really upper classes made peace treaties -- it was, 'I'm going to leave this woman now because I have a chance with the daughter of the king of Spain.' ''
 Only in the last 100 years has love been romanticized.
 ''This is a new phenomenon -- not the mercenary quality, but the fact that people are willing to risk this kind of money, just to say they're married,'' Ms. Coontz said. ''Love has been so idealized that at the top, the rich are willing to throw good money after bad to see if they can get the magic ring.'' So if a second marriage is the triumph of hope over experience, as Samuel Johnson observed, that's only more true of Marriages 3, 4 and 5. 
 ''They love the institution, they want to do it again,'' said Janis Spindel, a matchmaker in New York who said she charges $100,000 for what she calls her ''power elite clients'' to find a spouse. ''They think three times is the charm.''
 Of course, marriage to a certain kind of woman -- a movie star, a socialite -- can also be about conquest, ambition, cachet.
 ''It's ego,'' said David Patrick Columbia, who writes NewYorkSocialDiary.com. ''If you're a big deal, you've got to have ways of showing it. You've got the house, got the car, got the wife. They don't think much of marriage, they think much of possessing.'' 
 They can easily find women to agree -- and typically it is the women who are, as divorce lawyers gently call it, ''the non-moneyed.'' 
 Stanford G. Lotwin, a divorce lawyer in New York, said he tried to warn his serial clients about taking on serial wives.
 ''We tell these men, you cannot go anywhere without our card in your pocket,'' he said. ''As soon as you have your second date, you have to call, and we'll remind you how expensive this is. He'll say, 'I repeat your name in my sleep, I promise you I'm not doing anything.' '' But soon enough, Mr. Lotwin will be pulling out the box of tissues he uses to guide the man's new fiancee through the prenuptial process.
 For many of the men, the prenuptial is simply part of the business deal that is marriage. ''They see it like a hedge fund,'' said Ms. Cohen, the divorce lawyer. ''Sometimes it works out, sometimes it doesn't.''
 And it's just this attitude that makes divorce more likely. ''They're used to having whatever they want,'' said Norman Sheresky, a New York divorce lawyer. 
 And some aren't ready for the ups and downs of a long marriage. ''Nobody thinks the sex is going to change, nobody thinks their life is going to change. Well, it changes. Rich people go, 'I can do something about this.' ''
 They are also presented with many temptations. 
 ''Everyone is throwing themselves at them, no matter what they look like or what their personality is,'' Mr. Lotwin said. 
 As for Mr. Perelman, Mr. Columbia reports, ''They're lining up for him already.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: It's Over Ellen Barkin and the ex. (Photo by Evan Agostini/Getty Images)(pg. 1)
 Together Donald and Melania Trump. (Photo by Peter Kramer/Getty Images)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); WRITERS (73%); FAMILY (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); MERGERS (63%); SOCIOLOGY (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Forbes (Magazine)

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (90%); GEORGE CLOONEY (54%) Kate Zernike; Ronald O Perelman; Ellen Barkin; Harriet Newman Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



615 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: And Now, a Word for Our Demographic

BYLINE: By TED KOPPEL. 
Ted Koppel, who retired as anchor and managing editor of the ABC program ''Nightline'' in November, is a contributing columnist for The Times and managing editor of The Discovery Network. Frank Rich is on a book leave.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
NOT all reporters have an unfinished novel gathering dust but many, including this one, do. If that isn't enough of a cliche, this novel's hero is a television anchor (always plant your pen in familiar turf) who, in the course of a minor traffic accident, bites the tip off his tongue. The ensuing speech impediment is sufficient to end his on-air career and he finds himself, recently divorced, now unemployed, at home and watching altogether too much television.
 After several weeks of isolation he discovers on his voice mail a message from an old friend, the opinion-page editor of his hometown newspaper. She is urging him to write a piece about television news, which, after some hesitation, he does -- with a vengeance:
The earls and dukes and barons of television news have grown sleek and fat eating road kill. The victims, dispatched by political or special interest hit-and-run squads, are then hung up, displayed and consumed with unwholesome relish on television. 
 They wander the battlefields of other people's wars, these knights of the airwaves, disposing of the wounded from both armies, gorging themselves like the electronic vultures they are.
 The popular illusion that television journalists are liberals does them too much honor. Like all mercenaries they fight for money, not ideology; but unlike true mercenaries, their loyalty is not for sale. It cannot be engaged because it does not exist. Their total lack of commitment to any cause has come to be defined as objectivity. Their daily preoccupation with the trivial and the banal has accumulated large audiences, which, in turn, has encouraged a descent into the search for items of even greater banality.
 A wounded and bitter fellow, this fictional hero of mine, but his bilious arguments hardly seem all that dated. Now here I sit, having recently left ABC News after 42 years, and who should call but an editor friend of mine who, in a quirky convolution of real life's imitating unpublished fiction, has asked me to write this column examining the state of television news today.
 Where to begin? Confession of the obvious seems like a reasonable starting point: I have become well known and well-off traveling the world on ABC's dime, charged only with ensuring that our viewers be well informed about important issues. For the better part of those 42 years, this arrangement worked to our mutual benefit and satisfaction. At the same time, I cannot help but see that the industry in which I have spent my entire adult life is in decline and in distress. 
 Once, 30 or 40 years ago, the target audience for network news was made up of everyone with a television, and the most common criticism lodged against us was that we were tempted to operate on a lowest-common-denominator basis. 
 This, however, was in the days before deregulation, when the Federal Communications Commission was still perceived to have teeth, and its mandate that broadcasters operate in ''the public interest, convenience and necessity'' was enough to give each licensee pause. 
 Network owners nurtured their news divisions, encouraged them to tackle serious issues, cultivated them as shields to be brandished before Congressional committees whenever questions were raised about the quality of entertainment programs and the vast sums earned by those programs. News divisions occasionally came under political pressures but rarely commercial ones. The expectation was that they would search out issues of importance, sift out the trivial and then tell the public what it needed to know. 
 With the advent of cable, satellite and broadband technology, today's marketplace has become so overcrowded that network news divisions are increasingly vulnerable to the dictatorship of the demographic. Now, every division of every network is expected to make a profit. And so we have entered the age of boutique journalism. The goal for the traditional broadcast networks now is to identify those segments of the audience considered most desirable by the advertising community and then to cater to them.
 Most television news programs are therefore designed to satisfy the perceived appetites of our audiences. That may be not only acceptable but unavoidable in entertainment; in news, however, it is the journalists who should be telling their viewers what is important, not the other way around. 
 Indeed, in television news these days, the programs are being shaped to attract, most particularly, 18-to-34-year-old viewers. They, in turn, are presumed to be partly brain-dead -- though not so insensible as to be unmoved by the blandishments of sponsors. 
 Exceptions, it should be noted, remain. Thus it is that the evening news broadcasts of ABC, CBS and NBC are liberally studded with advertisements that clearly cater to older Americans. But this is a holdover from another era: the last gathering of more than 30 million tribal elders, as they clench their dentures while struggling to control esophageal eruptions of stomach acid to watch ''The News.'' That number still commands respect, but even the evening news programs, you will find (after the first block of headline material), are struggling to find a new format that will somehow appeal to younger viewers. 
 Washington news, for example, is covered with less and less enthusiasm and aggressiveness. The networks' foreign bureaus have, for some years now, been seen as too expensive to merit survival. Judged on the frequency with which their reports get airtime, they can no longer be deemed cost-effective. Most have either been closed or reduced in size to the point of irrelevance. 
 Simply stated, no audience is perceived to be clamoring for foreign news, the exceptions being wars in their early months that involve American troops, acts of terrorism and, for a couple of weeks or so, natural disasters of truly epic proportions. 
 You will still see foreign stories on the evening news broadcasts, but examine them carefully. They are either reported by one of a half-dozen or so remaining foreign correspondents who now cover the world for each network, or the anchor simply narrates a piece of videotape shot by some other news agency. For big events, an anchor might parachute in for a couple of days of high drama coverage. But the age of the foreign correspondent, who knew a country or region intimately, is long over.
 No television news executive is likely to acknowledge indifference to major events overseas or in our nation's capital, but he may, on occasion, concede that the viewers don't care, and therein lies the essential malignancy.
 The accusation that television news has a political agenda misses the point. Right now, the main agenda is to give people what they want. It is not partisanship but profitability that shapes what you see. 
 Most particularly on cable news, a calculated subjectivity has, indeed, displaced the old-fashioned goal of conveying the news dispassionately. But that, too, has less to do with partisan politics than simple capitalism. Thus, one cable network experiments with the subjectivity of tender engagement: ''I care and therefore you should care.'' Another opts for chest-thumping certitude: ''I know and therefore you should care.'' 
 Even Fox News's product has less to do with ideology and more to do with changing business models. Fox has succeeded financially because it tapped into a deep, rich vein of unfulfilled yearning among conservative American television viewers, but it created programming to satisfy the market, not the other way around. CNN, meanwhile, finds itself largely outmaneuvered, unwilling to accept the label of liberal alternative, experimenting instead with a form of journalism that stresses empathy over detachment.
 Now, television news should not become a sort of intellectual broccoli to be jammed down our viewers' unwilling throats. We are obliged to make our offerings as palatable as possible. But there are too many important things happening in the world today to allow the diet to be determined to such a degree by the popular tastes of a relatively narrow and apparently uninterested demographic.
 What is, ultimately, most confusing about the behavior of the big three networks is why they ever allowed themselves to be drawn onto a battlefield that so favors their cable competitors. At almost any time, the audience of a single network news program on just one broadcast network is greater than the combined audiences of CNN, Fox and MSNBC. 
 Reaching across the entire spectrum of American television viewers is precisely the broadcast networks' greatest strength. By focusing only on key demographics, by choosing to ignore their total viewership, they have surrendered their greatest advantage.
 Oddly enough, there is a looming demographic reality that could help steer television news back toward its original purpose. There are tens of millions of baby boomers in their 40's and 50's and entering their 60's who have far more spending power than their 18-to-34-year-old counterparts. Television news may be debasing itself before the wrong demographic.
 If the network news divisions cannot be convinced that their future depends on attracting all demographic groups, then perhaps, at least, they can be persuaded to aim for the largest single demographic with the most disposable income -- one that may actually have an appetite for serious news. That would seem like a no-brainer. It's regrettable, perhaps, that only money and the inclination to spend it will ultimately determine the face of television news, but, as a distinguished colleague of mine used to say: ''That's the way it is.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Plunkert)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); HIT & RUN (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (56%) 

PERSON: Ted Koppel

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



616 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Mike Huckabee Lost 110 Pounds. Ask Him How.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 

 BODY:
In 2003, Mike Huckabee, the governor of Arkansas, learned he had type 2 diabetes. 
 His doctor told him he would probably be dead in 10 years -- and that terrified him enough to start exercising, eschew sugar and lose about 110 pounds (at 5 feet 11 inches, he's now 180 pounds). His first attempts at jogging left him dizzy after a few hundred yards, but now he is running marathons.
That would be a nice, inspiring tale if it ended there, but instead it has been the starting point. Mr. Huckabee has become a health care policy wonk, and with the help of national experts he has begun a series of clever initiatives to fight obesity. They are among the most creative steps under way in America at any level of the political process. 
 Arkansas has become a national laboratory for using policy levers to try to encourage healthier lifestyles. Other states and the federal government should adopt the same steps -- like curbing soft drinks in schools, informing all parents of their children's body mass index as a step to encouraging fitness, giving exercise breaks as well as smoking breaks, paying for preventive health checks like mammograms and prostate examinations, subsidizing efforts to quit smoking and seeking to give food stamps more purchasing power when they are used to buy fruits or vegetables.
 I know all this sounds banal. Perhaps I should be using this journalistic real estate to thunder about grand issues like the Iraq war or Middle East peace or corruption in Congress. But remember that fat kills far more Americans than terrorists. Indeed, The New England Journal of Medicine reported last year that because of rising obesity, life expectancy in the U.S. might soon stop rising and could drop.
 So if our government wants to keep our children safe, it doesn't just have to go after terrorists in Afghanistan. It also has to go after Twinkies at home.
 Mr. Huckabee, the current chairman of the National Governors Association, is a conservative Republican (and a potential candidate for president in 2008), with whom I disagree on just about everything. But he's doing more to safeguard the lives of his constituents than just about any politician in the country. And it makes financial sense.
 ''I don't want to be the sugar sheriff,'' Mr. Huckabee explained in an interview in his office. ''I don't want to be the grease police. That's not my job. But when I look at our state budget, and I see that every year our Medicaid budget is increasing by 9 to 10 percent, and I look at state employees' health plans and I see that those costs are escalating at double digits and twice the rate of inflation -- as a fiscal manager, I have not only the right but frankly also the responsibility to see what can we do to improve this bottom-line cost.''
 Repeatedly, Mr. Huckabee came back to the same argument: Obesity is reducing not only the quality of life of Americans, but also the fiscal soundness of our government and the competitiveness of our businesses.
 ''This year, G.M. will spend more on health care for employees and pensioners than on steel,'' Mr. Huckabee noted. ''Starbucks will spend more on health care than on coffee beans.''
 Obesity is linked to 112,000 deaths a year in the U.S., according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and leads to an extra $75 billion in direct medical costs. Mr. Huckabee argues that it would be worth paying small sums -- for a session with a fitness trainer or a diet counselor -- to avoid paying the far greater costs of heart disease and diabetes later.
 Consider type 2 diabetes -- the ailment that afflicted Mr. Huckabee (but which has now gone away, thanks to his regimen of salads and exercise). It has increased tenfold among children in just the last 20 years.
 As a series in this newspaper about diabetes recently noted, one-third of today's 5-year-olds in America are projected to get diabetes at some point in their lives. It's already the leading cause of blindness, and a 10-year-old who has diabetes loses 19 years of life expectancy.
 Imagine if Al Qaeda had resolved to attack us not with conventional chemical weapons but by slipping large amounts of high-fructose corn syrup into our food supply. That would finally rouse us to action -- but in fact it's pretty much what we're doing to ourselves.
 So what practical steps do we take? That's on the menu for a forthcoming column. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); OBESITY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (88%); BUDGETS (87%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DIABETES (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); SMOKING (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); MEDICAID (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INFLATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POLITICS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (66%); SMOKING CESSATION (66%); TERRORISM (64%); MARATHONS (56%); SOFT DRINKS (52%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (92%) Nicholas D Kristof; Mike (Gov) Huckabee

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Arkansas

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



617 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Health Care, Vexing to Clinton, Is Now at Top of Bush's Agenda 

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
More than 12 years after President Bill Clinton unveiled his plan to remake the nation's health care system, President Bush is moving the issue once again to the top of the national agenda and is expected to push a series of health care proposals in his State of the Union address on Tuesday.
 Where Mr. Clinton was driven by a desire to guarantee health insurance for every American, Mr. Bush is focusing primarily on health costs, which he says are swamping employers and threatening economic growth. Where Mr. Clinton favored a larger role for government, Mr. Bush has a fundamentally different philosophy, built on the idea that placing more responsibility in the hands of individuals will create market pressure to hold down costs.
The long-running debate has taken on new urgency as more and more companies find themselves struggling to pay for employee health benefits. Health care costs have been a big factor in the troubles of the domestic auto industry, among others. 
 But some policy experts, Republicans and Democrats alike, say the Bush proposals, which are built around tax breaks, may further drive up health spending and costs by fueling the demand for health care. Such unintended effects show how difficult it is to apply economic theory to the complexities of the current health care system.
 By making health care a prominent theme of his prime-time address to the nation, Mr. Bush hopes to regain the initiative on domestic policy. Success with his health care proposals, after the failure of his effort to overhaul Social Security, would allow the president to build political momentum heading into the midterm elections this fall.
 The White House has indicated that Mr. Bush will propose tax deductions for out-of-pocket medical expenses, rules to encourage the use of health savings accounts and incentives for small businesses across the country to band together and buy health insurance, exempt from state regulation.
 Regina E. Herzlinger, a professor at Harvard Business School, said: ''Insuring the uninsured is a fine objective, but how will this control the health costs that are hobbling our global competitiveness? Health savings accounts will increase coverage, and that's great. But they are being touted as a way to control costs, and I very much doubt that claim.''
 Democrats see the Bush proposals as a pastiche of old and new ideas that falls far short of what is required to tame the explosive growth in health costs. 
 Many economists say that the tax code, by subsidizing the purchase of health insurance, has fostered excessive use of health care services, driving up costs. Rather than proposing any limit on this subsidy, Mr. Bush wants to make it more widely available, to people who buy health care and insurance on their own.
 Under current law, employers who pay health insurance premiums for employees can deduct the payments as a business expense on their tax returns, and the payments are not counted as taxable income for the employees. But such subsidies are unavailable to people who buy insurance themselves. President Bush sees that difference as unfair.
 Allan B. Hubbard, assistant to the president for economic policy, said, ''Health care purchased by an employer is done on a pretax basis, before your payroll taxes, before your income taxes. If you work for an employer who cannot afford to provide health insurance and so you go out and buy it, you have to use after-tax dollars.''
 In an interview, Mr. Hubbard continued: ''Another unfairness is that if you buy health care with your insurance, you use pretax dollars. If you pay for it out of pocket, you have to use after-tax dollars. That encourages you to insure health care events that are routine. Insurance was never created to deal with the routine.''
 People use health savings accounts to pay routine medical expenses and buy high-deductible insurance policies to cover larger expenses. Mr. Bush says this arrangement encourages people to take more responsibility for all aspects of their care, including its cost.
 ''It's the opposite of federal control,'' Mr. Bush told a group of small-business owners this month. ''It is patient control.''
 The White House had been hoping to highlight the new Medicare drug benefit as a model, showing how private health plans could deliver better benefits at lower cost than the government. But if Mr. Bush mentions it in his State of the Union address, he will invite catcalls from Democrats. 
 Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the assistant Democratic leader, said the drug benefit had become ''a fiasco, a disaster,'' because it was written by Republicans who placed too much trust in private markets.
 Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, said, ''Health savings accounts are brought to you by the same people who brought you the confusing, special-interest-driven Medicare prescription drug bill.'' 
 Health policy experts raise many questions about Mr. Bush's proposals: Would the new tax breaks go to people who already had insurance or would buy it anyway? Would they undermine the system of employer-provided health insurance? Would healthy individuals be more likely to take the new options, leaving employers to pay for sick people with higher health costs?
 Stuart M. Butler, a vice president of the conservative Heritage Foundation, said Mr. Bush was focusing more on costs than on coverage for the uninsured. The tax proposals, he said, are ''a bit of a gamble,'' forced on the president by the bizarre politics of health care.
 Jonathan Gruber, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who worked at the Treasury under President Clinton, said, ''The new tax breaks would be expensive and regressive, offering the largest benefits to the highest-income taxpayers.''
 In diagnosing flaws in the health care system, Mr. Bush could lift whole sentences from Mr. Clinton's address to a joint session of Congress on Sept. 22, 1993.
 Opening his campaign for ''health security,'' Mr. Clinton said, ''Our medical bills are growing at over twice the rate of inflation.'' He warned that ''rising costs are a special nightmare for our small businesses,'' and that ''health care costs will devour more and more and more of our budget.''
 The Clinton plan died in Congress, after months of criticism from small businesses, health insurance companies and Republicans, who called it a costly, complex ''big government'' scheme. 
 Since then, national health spending has doubled, to $1.9 trillion. Health care now accounts for one-sixth of the nation's economy. Medicare and Medicaid, which accounted for 15.5 percent of federal spending in 1993, now consume almost 21 percent.
 In Mr. Bush's first term, the number of people without health insurance increased more than a million a year, to 45.8 million in 2004, the last year for which official figures were available. 
 Democrats and consumer groups led the campaign for health care legislation in 1993. Now business executives and small-business owners express a similar sense of urgency.
 In his recent meeting with small-business owners, Mr. Bush said, ''Government policy has got to aim at the increasing cost of health care.'' The number of uninsured is rising because health costs are going up, he said, ''so the government needs to address the cost.''
 While they are not required to provide health benefits, many large employers are committed to doing so, despite the rapidly rising costs. Employers see health benefits as a way to attract workers and to keep them productive, said E. Neil Trautwein, assistant vice president of the National Association of Manufacturers. 
 Over the years, many employers have become expert in buying health coverage for employees, and they do not want to drop this responsibility or dismantle the current system.
 But employers have been clamoring for policy makers to address the needs of the uninsured. Employers say they indirectly pay for the uninsured, because the cost of their care is factored into the prices charged by hospitals and other health care providers.
 ''The health care cost crisis has a lot to do with the growing number of uninsured,'' said Katie W. Mahoney, manager of health policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush discussed the Medicare drug plan last month with residents at the Greenspring Village retirement community in Springfield, Va. Health care is expected to be a theme of his State of the Union address. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg.18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MEDICARE (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (64%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Taxation; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Law and Legislation; States (US); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



618 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Wealth Share Rises for Top-Income Americans

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
New government data indicate that the concentration of corporate wealth among the highest-income Americans grew significantly in 2003, as a trend that began in 1991 accelerated in the first year that President Bush and Congress cut taxes on capital.
 In 2003 the top 1 percent of households owned 57.5 percent of corporate wealth, up from 53.4 percent the year before, according to a Congressional Budget Office analysis of the latest income tax data. The top group's share of corporate wealth has grown by half since 1991, when it was 38.7 percent. 
 In 2003, incomes in the top 1 percent of households ranged from $237,000 to several billion dollars. 
 For every group below the top 1 percent, shares of corporate wealth have declined since 1991. These declines ranged from 12.7 percent for those on the 96th to 99th rungs on the income ladder to 57 percent for the poorest fifth of Americans, who made less than $16,300 and together owned 0.6 percent of corporate wealth in 2003, down from 1.4 percent in 1991.
 The analysis did not measure wealth directly. It looked at taxes on capital gains, dividends, interest and rents. Income from securities owned by retirement plans and endowments was excluded, as were gains from noncorporate assets such as personal residences.
 This technique for measuring wealth has long been used in standard economic studies, though critics have challenged that tradition.
 Among them is Stephen J. Entin, president of the Institute for Research on the Economics of Taxation in Washington, which favors eliminating most taxes on capital and teaches that an unintended consequence of the corporate income tax is depressed wage rates. Mr. Entin said the report's approach was so flawed that the data were useless.
 He said reduced tax rates on long-term capital gains may have prompted wealthy investors to sell profitable investments. That would show up in tax data as increased wealth that year, even though the increase may have built up over decades. 
 Long-term capital gains were taxed at 28 percent until 1997, and at 20 percent until 2003, when rates were cut to 15 percent. The top rate on dividends was cut to 15 percent from 35 percent that year. 
 The White House said it did not believe that the 2003 tax cuts had much influence on wealth shares. It also said that since wealth is transitory for many people, a more important issue is how incomes and wealth are influenced by the quality of education.
 ''We want to lift all incomes and wealth,'' said Trent Duffy, a White House spokesman. ''We are starting to see that the income gap is largely an education gap.''
 ''The president thinks we need to close the income gap, and he has talked about ways in which we can do that,'' especially through education, Mr. Duffy said. 
 The data showing increased concentration of corporate wealth were posted last month on the Congressional Budget Office Web site. Isaac Shapiro, associate director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington, spotted the information last week and wrote a report analyzing it.
 Mr. Shapiro said the figures added to the center's ''concerns over the increasingly regressive effects'' of the reduced tax rates on capital. Continuing those rates will ''exacerbate the long-term trend toward growing income inequality,'' he wrote.
 The center, which studies how government affects the poor and supports policies that it believes help alleviate poverty, opposes Mr. Bush's tax policies.
 The center plans to release its own report on Monday that questions the wisdom of continuing the reduced tax rates on dividends and capital gains, saying the Congressional Budget Office analysis indicates that the benefits flow directly to a relatively few Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BONDS (66%) United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) David Cay Johnston; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



619 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: The Rift Over a Deeper Delaware 

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
GOV. ED RENDELL of Pennsylvania not only campaigned for Jon S. Corzine last year, but he is also a constituent. So picking a fight with his newly elected counterpart across the Delaware over a proposal to deepen the river is not something Governor Rendell says he is eager to do. 
 ''Remember, I'm a Jersey taxpayer -- I own a home in Ocean City,'' Mr. Rendell said. ''I'm hoping Governor Corzine gives me some property tax relief. I don't want to start a war with New Jersey.''
 But skirmishes have broken out over the proposal, which would deepen the shipping channel from 40 to 45 feet along a 105-mile stretch of the Delaware River between Philadelphia and Delaware Bay. The proposal is supported by Pennsylvania officials, who contend that it is necessary to keep Philadelphia and other ports along the river competitive, but it is opposed by their counterparts in New Jersey, who dismiss it as environmentally and economically unsound. 
 Just as maps illustrate the deepening project as a line down the center of the river, the proposal has divided the Pennsylvania and New Jersey members of the Delaware River Port Authority, the two-state agency that is the local sponsor of the project -- its cost has been estimated as high as $500 million -- and must approve it.
 Seats on the Delaware port agency's 16-member board are divided evenly between Pennsylvania and New Jersey and are filled by the governor of each state. Governor Rendell, a former Philadelphia mayor, took the unusual step of naming himself as chairman last year. New Jersey's eight members, led by the agency's vice chairman, Jeff Nash, a Democratic freeholder from Camden Country, oppose the project and have blocked its approval.
 ''I don't see the logic in spending $300 to $500 million on dredging the river five feet,'' Mr. Nash said, referring to the project's estimated price range. The totals depends mainly on how the dredged material would be disposed of, and who is doing the estimating.
 The cost of the project, which would be carried out by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, would be shared by the federal government, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware. Following opposition to dumping dredge spoils in New Jersey, Governor Rendell said that Pennsylvania would accept three-quarters of the material. Opponents wonder what he will do with it, and where he will get the money.
 There have also been widely divergent estimates of the return on the project's investment. A 50-year projection by the Army Corps predicted that it would return $1.15 in economic activity for every dollar spent, but a General Accounting Office study projected a 46-cent return. 
 Rather than the deepening, New Jersey officials have proposed a multibillion-dollar redevelopment of the waterfront in Camden and Salem Counties, which they say would enhance the port and give the regional economy a boost by adding more shipping terminals, improving existing ones and building housing. 
 Pennsylvania officials dismiss the proposal as an ill-conceived, unfinanced distraction from the real issue of deepening. 
 In addition to maintaining a cruise ship terminal and four toll bridges, the Delaware port agency also operates the Port Authority Transportation Corporation's , commuter rail line (known as Patco), which carries about 17,000 commuters a day, most of them from New Jersey to Philadelphia. 
 If New Jersey does not agree to the dredging, Governor Rendell said he would shut down Patco service by continuing to cancel the agency's board meetings, as he did in December and January, effectively blocking passage of the agency's budget, which is already two months overdue.
 ''I don't want to stop the Patco trains -- in the short run that would probably hurt some businesses in Philadelphia,'' Governor Rendell said. ''But what alternative do I have?''
 Governor Corzine, who is confronting his first major interstate dispute since being sworn in on Jan. 17, has not declared a position on the deepening.
 ''The governor is working on it,'' said a spokesman, Anthony Coley.
 Governor Rendell said that he was confident that he and Governor Corzine could come to an agreement and that his counterpart in New Jersey had reached out to him to set up talks. 
 Mr. Nash, the port agency's vice chairman, said he believes that ''cooler heads will prevail,'' although he added that he and other New Jersey officials, including Representative Rob Andrews, remained opposed to the project.
 The dispute has even spread to the United States Senate. New Jersey's new junior senator, Robert Menendez, a Democrat who was sworn in on Jan. 18 to fill Governor Corzine's unexpired term, chided Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, after he threatened to hold up any Senate appropriation earmarked for New Jersey. Earlier this month, Pennsylvania's senior senator, Arlen Specter, also a Republican, released a statement calling New Jersey's opposition to the project ''unconscionable, really scandalous.''
 Delaware will also have a say in the project, because its part of the river will be affected. A hearing officer for Delaware's environmental agency recommended in 2003 that the state reject the plan, although no final decision has been made. A spokeswoman for Delaware's Democratic governor, Ruth Ann Minner, declined to comment. 
 Ed Voigt, an Army Corps spokesman, said the project, which was conceived in 1987, had received all necessary federal approvals.
 Governor Rendell accused the New Jersey side of blocking the deepening project to protect the ports in Newark and Elizabeth. ''The only thing that could explain this is that it's North Jersey not wanting competition from the South Jersey and Philadelphia ports,'' he said.
 Mr. Nash said the suggestion was ''absolutely inaccurate,'' noting that many local officials in South Jersey, like Representative Andrews, also oppose the deepening. 
 The project is also being fought by environmentalists on both sides of the river. Jeff Tittel, the director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, said that deepening would push the river's salt line farther upstream, affecting drinking water, and that blasting could fracture the riverbed and allow PCB's, heavy metals and other toxins in the sediment to leech into the underground aquifer. 
 Moreover, Maya van Rossum of Delaware Riverkeeper Network in Philadelphia, said that dredging would churn up in the sediment, causing those same toxins to flow into the bay, harming marine life.
 But there are also proponents on both banks of the river, including labor and shipping organizations. Martin Mascuilli, the secretary-treasurer of the International Longshoremen's Association Local 1291, said that the livelihoods of the region's 1,200 longshoremen depended on the deepening.
 ''Of course, any time you deepen somewhere, you are going to disturb some clams and crabs and fish,'' Mr. Mascuilli said. ''In my mind, a man and a woman and their family are more important.''
 James T. McDermott Jr., the executive director of the Philadelphia Regional Port Authority, which oversees most of the shipping on the Pennsylvania side, said that dredge spoils from the deepening would provide fill to expand the Packer Avenue Marine Terminal, just south of the Walt Whitman Bridge. Railroads also plan to expand their operations in the area, he said, and calls have come in from Asian and European shippers interested in the port. 
 Dennis Rochford, the president of the Maritime Exchange for the Delaware River and Bay, a trade group of shippers and port operators on both sides of the river, said port activity contributes 75,000 jobs and $4 billion annually to the regional economy, aswell as $150 million in state and local taxes. 
 ''This is a project that needs to get done,'' he said. ''It might be obvious to us. It might not be obvious to some people.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shipping operations on the Delaware River in Philadelphia. Pennsylvania supports deepening 105 miles of the river from Philadelphia to the Delaware Bay. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)Map of Delaware and surrounding area highlights the Delaware River Main Channel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); RIVERS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMIES (76%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%) Ships and Shipping ; Dredges and Dredging; Ports; Ships and Shipping 

ORGANIZATION: Delaware River Port Authority

PERSON: ED RENDELL (90%); JON CORZINE (89%) Steve Strunsky

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); DELAWARE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (99%) Delaware River; Pennsylvania; New Jersey; Camden County (NJ); Salem County (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



620 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Return of Congress: New Tests for Bush

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
With the Senate on the verge of confirming Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. to the Supreme Court and Republican leadership elections looming in the House, Congress returns next week in a volatile climate that will test whether President Bush can reassert himself this election year.
 In a stark contrast from last year, when Republican leaders fell in line behind Mr. Bush as he embarked on what would be a losing effort to overhaul Social Security, the president, weakened after a series of setbacks in the past year, now faces a challenge in rallying his own party behind some of his most important initiatives.
He is pressing for Congress to complete work on a package of budget cuts, a reauthorization of antiterrorism legislation and a measure to combat illegal immigration. But in each case, enough Republicans are balking to put the outcome in doubt, a sign of the legislative difficulty that the White House faces as lawmakers focus on what matters most to them -- winning re-election. 
 ''People look at public opinion polls, and members of Congress are no exception,'' Representative David Dreier, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Rules Committee, said. ''I think it would be a stretch to argue that President Bush is at his strongest point. But I do think there is an underlying understanding and respect for his leadership skills.'' 
 Democrats have yet to show that they can mount a consistently effective opposition to the administration and the Republican majority on Capitol Hill, and they may have an uphill battle ahead.
 The president's poll numbers, which plummeted last year, are beginning to inch up. The vote on Judge Alito's confirmation is likely to give a big boost for Republicans heading into the State of the Union address. Party leaders say Mr. Bush's hand will grow only stronger after the speech, in which he is expected to offer smaller-scale legislative initiatives on topics like health care and immigration. 
 ''His rhetoric was more impressive than I've seen it in a while,'' Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, said after Senate Republicans went to the White House on Friday to discuss their agenda with Mr. Bush. ''He still has a great reservoir of support among Republicans.''
 Mr. Bush's prospects are complicated by the presidential aspirations of several senators from his party, including the majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, whose plans to retire from Congress effectively make him a lame duck. 
 Congressional Republicans are also concerned about their own low poll numbers. A New York Times/CBS News poll published on Friday found that 61 percent of Americans had an unfavorable view of Congress, the highest in a decade.
 With Washington consumed by the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal, Republicans know they need quick legislative gains to turn around those numbers. In addition to tax cuts, immigration, health care and energy prices, a new item is on the agenda, lobbying reform. 
 ''I think we kind of have to find our way again,'' Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota, said. ''I always felt we were the party of reform. When you become the party of the status quo and you lose that vision of really wanting to be the reformers and the catalysts for change, that's when you have to start asking some really hard questions.''
 Before Congress can reform anything, lawmakers have to dive into a plate piled high with leftovers, including the antiterrorism law known as the USA Patriot Act, which expires on Friday unless it is extended again, and a $40 billion budget-cutting plan passed by the Senate, but with changes that will require another vote in the House. 
 That vote is scheduled for Wednesday, and Republicans concede that it will be close. Last week, one Republican in a Democratic-leaning district, Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, said in an interview that he was ''revisiting the vote'' and told leaders that he was ''a lean yes, but not a strong yes.''
 Another, Representative Rob Simmons, also of Connecticut, said he would switch to oppose the plan. Mr. Simmons, who voted for the cuts when they came up in the House late last year, said in a statement that he had an earful about them from constituents, including representatives of AARP, the retirees' lobby. ''In a democracy,'' Mr. Simmons said, ''the government must serve the people, not reign over them.''
 In other business from last year, the House and Senate also have to reconcile huge differences over how much money to commit to extending tax cuts, including a plan to prevent millions of additional families from becoming subject to the unpopular alternative minimum tax. The president has been pressing Congress to make his tax cuts permanent, but the chances of that are slim.
 Congress traditionally does little in the way of landmark legislation in an election year, because partisan politics get in the way. Even so, Mr. Lott said he was optimistic that ''this could wind up a very positive year, and one quite different from what people anticipated.''
 But he cautioned that the Republican agenda had to be ''simple, achievable and explainable.''
 Democrats, too, are sounding hopeful, if only because they hope that Mr. Bush's poll numbers, which are rising but still comparatively low, will help them score gains. 
 ''An off-year election is a referendum on the president, and the president at this point is vulnerable,'' Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, said. ''My experience is that members of the president's party who don't believe he is a going to be a good ally for re-election will start looking across the aisle. So I am hopeful that we will have more independence in the Republican ranks.''
 One indicator of Republican independence will be how the party handles the new Medicare prescription drug program, which is creating considerable confusion among older voters. Republicans see Medicare as a potential trouble spot in November, and Representative Jack Kingston, the Georgia Republican who is vice chairman of the House Republican Conference, said he was urging his colleagues to confront the issue head on at home. ''Our members have to get out there and engage in this Medicare confusion,'' Mr. Kingston said. ''Medicare is a big problem.''
 So big, in fact, that Mr. Dreier, the representative from California, suggested in an interview that he would be willing to entertain a proposal, put forth by Democrats, to change the law to allow the government to negotiate with pharmaceutical companies to lower drug prices. The White House has steadfastly opposed any changes in the law, and Mr. Dreier did not say explicitly that he would support them. But, he added, ''At this juncture, I think that anything we can do to make it better and more effective and help seniors have more access to prescription drugs, I'm willing to look at.'' 
 In the Senate and House, this session will open with wild cards. In the Senate, which is expected to vote to confirm Judge Alito to the Supreme Court on Tuesday, the Judiciary Committee will turn its attention to President Bush's admission he authorized the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on the conversations of Americans. Hearings are expected to begin next week.
 In the House, the immediate focus is on the Republican leadership, where Representatives Roy Blunt of Missouri, John A. Boehner of Ohio and John Shadegg of Arizona are vying to succeed Representative Tom DeLay, who stepped aside after being indicted in his home state, Texas, on charges in a case tied to campaign funds. The leadership race is closely linked to lobbying reform. With Democrats hammering the theme of a ''culture of corruption,'' Republicans are eager to show they are serious about changing the way Washington does business.
 The Senate has begun hearings on lobbying law changes, and both chambers hope to pass bills by the spring. House Republicans intend to make changes even sooner, by amending their rules to bar former colleagues who are registered lobbyists from the House floor and gymnasium, a symbolic move intended to quell persistent complaints about the so-called revolving door between Capitol Hill and K Street, the lobbyists' center. The idea, Mr. Kingston said, is to dispatch quickly with the lobbying changes, to change the topic to more winning issues.
 ''If the main re-election topic is Jack Abramoff, it's going to be hard because you're an incumbent,'' he said. ''If the main topic is the economy, the war on terrorism and fuel independence, then you should be O.K.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senate Republican leaders before a news conference on Friday on Capitol Hill. From left, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and Bill Frist of Tennessee. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); REFUGEES (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); SCANDALS (69%); TERRORISM (59%); BUDGET CUTS (54%) United States Politics and Government; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Terrorism; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); SAMUEL ALITO (78%); TRENT LOTT (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); DAVID DREIER (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006



621 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: The Lost Children

BYLINE: By Bob Herbert

 BODY:
The times -- as a fellow named Dylan sang more than 40 years ago -- they are a-changin'.
 This time it's not the emergence of the tie-dyed 60's and the flowering of the boomer generation. But the changes are at least as fundamental.
A generation from now non-Hispanic whites will make up less than 60 percent of the U.S. population, and by 2050 they will be just half. Nine out of 10 American students currently attend public schools. It is likely that within a decade fewer than half of the public school students will be white. 
 The dramatic changes in public school enrollment will not be a result of white flight, according to a new study by the Civil Rights Project at Harvard University: ''It is because of a changing population structure created by differential birth rates and age structures and a largely nonwhite international flow of millions of immigrants. Since whites are older, marry at later ages, have smaller families and account for a small fraction of immigrants, these changes are almost certain to continue.''
 So, with these changes in mind, what's happening with the black and Latino students who already account for more than a third of the public school population, and who should be expected to play an increasingly important role in shaping American society?
 Not much that is good.
 When Bob Dylan first came on the scene, it was very possible for a young man or woman with energy and a dream and a high school diploma (or less) to actually build a decent life. That's pretty much over. 
 We are now in a time when a college education is a virtual prerequisite for achieving or maintaining a middle-class lifestyle. ''Only the kids who get a postsecondary education are even keeping even in terms of income in their lives, and so forth,'' said Gary Orfield, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and director of the Civil Rights Project. ''The rest are falling behind, year by year. Only about a twelfth of the Latino kids and maybe a sixth of the black kids are getting college degrees. The rest of them aren't getting ready for anything that's going to have much of a future in the American economy.''
 One of the weirder things occurring in American education is the disappearance of kids -- especially black and Hispanic kids -- from high school. The San Antonio Express-News, reporting last March on a study by a local research association, said that ''more than a third of Texas high school freshman students are disappearing from the system or otherwise failing to obtain a high school diploma in four years.''
 The Los Angeles Times, for a feature article that same month, interviewed a 17-year-old named Nancy Meza who had quickly made friends with dozens of classmates when she arrived at the Boyle Heights campus of Roosevelt High School. Four years later, as her senior class gathered for its graduation photo, only four of her friends were there. Nearly all of the others had dropped out.
 ''It really struck me today,'' said Nancy. ''All of my friends are gone.''
 This is an underrecognized, underreported crisis in American life. Far from preparing kids for college, big-city high schools in neighborhoods with large numbers of poor, black and Latino youngsters are just hemorrhaging students. The kids are vanishing into a wilderness of ignorance. If the dropout rate were somehow reversed in a city like Los Angeles, there wouldn't be enough schools to accommodate the kids.
 ''The high dropout rate has been built into the regular order of school facilities in our big cities,'' said Professor Orfield. ''They expect that the classes will just shrivel as the kids go through the grades.''
 Nationally, just two-thirds of all students -- and only half of all blacks and Latinos -- who enter ninth grade actually graduate with regular diplomas four years later.
 This state of affairs in so many of the nation's high schools is potentially calamitous, not just for the students but for society as a whole. ''It's really very sad what's going on,'' said Professor Orfield. ''And there's been very little effort to reform it.''
 Youngsters who drop out of high school are much less likely to be regularly employed, or to escape poverty, even if they work full time. They are less likely to be married and less likely to have a decent home and a decent school for their kids. Their chances of ending up in prison -- especially for the African-American and Latino boys -- are much higher.
 These kids will not be part of the cadre of new leadership for America in the 21st century. They will have a hard enough time just surviving.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); IMMIGRATION (72%); FAMILY (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%) Education and Schools; Dropouts; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Education and Schools

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



622 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; The Day the News Left Town; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2054 words

HEADLINE: A Fabled Bureau Exits Eastern Kentucky's Coal Country

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: HAZARD, Ky. 

 BODY:
On a rainy day in mid-January, Alan Maimon, a reporter here for The Louisville Courier-Journal, packed up his desktop computer, fax machine and printer in his company-owned Ford Explorer. He then drove three hours to Louisville, turned in the equipment to the newspaper and, with that, officially brought to a close The Courier-Journal's storied Hazard bureau in eastern Kentucky.
 ''The paper doesn't even circulate here anymore,'' Mr. Maimon, 33, said before leaving the bureau he has run from his house for the last five years. ''There's no financial reason to keep it open.''
It was an anticlimactic moment, especially compared to some of the high drama witnessed by a string of correspondents who had run the Hazard bureau over the years. From the heart of coal country, the reporters used the megaphone of The Courier-Journal's front page to tell the world about mining disasters and the strip mining that cut across the roller-coaster terrain here. The strip mining articles won the paper a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 1967. In 1998, its reporters wrote about the widespread doctoring of air quality tests in the mines, which left hundreds of miners breathing dangerous levels of coal dust, leading to black lung disease. 
 And always, the paper served as a roll call for the region's dead -- 38 miners killed near Hyden in 1970; 15 in the Scotia mines in Whitesburg in 1976, and then, two days later, 11 more; seven in Floyd County in 1982; and so on.
 The Courier-Journal, which was bought 20 years ago by the Gannett Company, announced in December that it was pulling the plug on its bureau in Hazard (population 5,000) and two others in the state. 
 They are the last of the newspaper's once-robust statewide system of bureaus, all of them gone now except for one in Frankfort, which is the state capital.
 Newspapers across the country are retrenching, redeploying their employees and resources while they try to ride out what they hope is a temporary slump but one made all the more worrisome as readers and advertisers migrate to the Internet. These strategic decisions, about what to keep and what to cut, determine which regions and which issues receive attention and which do not.
 The Hazard bureau, which Mr. Maimon is leaving for a job at The Las Vegas Review Journal, is closing just as the coal-mining industry is resurgent and mine safety issues are back in the news.
 The 12 deaths in Sago, W.Va., after a Jan. 2 explosion and two more in Melville, W.Va., on Jan. 19 prompted quick passage of mining reform laws in that state and has led to consideration of similar bills in Kentucky and elsewhere.
 Coal mining, which reached its peak during the 1920's, had diminished significantly in eastern Kentucky by the 1980's and 1990's. But with energy demands up and half the country's electricity generated by coal, the price of coal has reached record levels. Applications for new mines are up, old mines are reopening and the state is scrambling to train new miners. 
 ''With the price of coal so high, you have operators coming out of the woodwork, trying to get into any seam of coal they can to make a quick buck, opening up a lot of little dog holes,'' said Tony Oppegard, a former top official with the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration and a former prosecutor of mine safety violations in Kentucky.
 ''In this climate, you need a watchdog like The Courier-Journal all the more,'' he said. ''The Courier-Journal has really been the voice for people in Kentucky who don't have a voice otherwise.'' 
 Mr. Oppegard, who moved to Hazard in 1980 and has represented families of workers killed in the mines, said that while the disaster in Sago had put the industry in the spotlight, most miners die quietly, one at a time, like one in nearby Pike County, Ky., on Jan. 10, where the mine operators were so poor, they had to borrow a saw to extract the body from the mine. 
 ''You don't get headlines when a coal miner at a nonunion mine in eastern Kentucky dies,'' he said. ''But The Courier-Journal would notice. Who is going to fill that void?''
 The paper is shifting its resources to Louisville's growing suburbs, following a national trend of enhancing local coverage, and it wants to build its presence online. 
 ''We were not growing in the state, and there's real potential to grow our suburban market,'' said Bennie L. Ivory, the paper's executive editor. ''But we're not abdicating our responsibility for the big-impact stories. If there's a coal-mining disaster, we'll be there.''
 Unlike many of the nation's big metropolitan dailies, The Courier-Journal's daily circulation is up, albeit modestly. The circulation was about 209,000 in September, a gain of 0.6 percent from the same month in 2004. Nor is it cutting back its staff. All three reporters who worked in bureaus that are being closed were offered other jobs at the paper; two of the three are leaving, and Edward E. Manassah, the publisher, said they would be replaced by new hires. The executives said that mining issues would be picked up by reporters in Louisville.
 Still, the closing of the bureaus has dismayed many in the newspaper business, who see it as a melancholy coda to a scaling back that began a few years ago with the shutting of other bureaus and the curtailing of the paper's statewide distribution. (It is available in Hazard only by next-day mail.)
 ''It's hard to have your ear on the ground when the ground is 200 miles away,'' said Ralph Dunlop, a special projects reporter at The Courier-Journal, who was the Hazard bureau chief from 1978 to 1986 and who spent much of his time learning about the coal industry, from the underground up.
 ''If you send a general assignment reporter from Louisville, he or she can't be expected to gain that understanding in 48 hours,'' he said. ''So we will bring less expertise to the table when the time comes to cover issues in Appalachia, if we choose to do so at all.''
 The moves are particularly distressing to Barry Bingham Jr., the former publisher, whose internal family feuding led to the paper's sale to Gannett in 1986.
 ''I hate to see it happen, but Gannett has profit-margin demands that the Binghams never dreamed of,'' Mr. Bingham said. ''My grandfather said he saw the paper as a public trust, and we ran it that way. We made a marginal profit, maybe 5 or 6 percent, and other publishers would laugh at us and say 'you have to be an idiot not to get 20 percent margins from a monopoly paper.' It's sad, but this is happening all around the country.''
 Tara J. Connell, a spokeswoman for Gannett, said the company ''sees The Courier-Journal as a community service as well as a way to make money.'' She said that the paper had not ''diminished its role as a strong community voice'' and that it continued to publish quality journalism.
 Gannett's profit margins are among the highest in the industry, at about 30 percent, according to Douglas M. Arthur, a media analyst with Morgan Stanley. It is not possible to break out the profits of The Courier-Journal, he said, but many regional papers this size are flush with ads and are thriving, particularly compared to the bigger metro dailies. 
 Mr. Manassah said that any desire to maintain those profit margins was not the driving force behind the bureau closures. ''That's always been a knock on the company, and I don't happen to agree with it,'' he said. And Mr. Ivory said the decision to shut the bureaus was his and the publisher's, not Gannett's.
 The paper became a force in eastern Kentucky decades ago with its crusade against strip mining. And its uncovering of abuses helped lead to the establishment of the Mine Safety and Health Administration.
 ''The Courier has had such an impact in eastern Kentucky,'' said Bill Gorman, 81, who has been the mayor of Hazard since 1978 and ranks The Courier-Journal with the Bible in terms of required reading.
 ''We used to have bad floods, and The Courier-Journal took a look at it and got the dams built,'' he said. ''We got the road situation improved and developed eastern Kentucky because of The Courier's influence in Frankfort and in Washington, D.C.''
 Now, he said, ''they've pulled their horns in, and closing the bureaus will hurt the regions they've been serving more than it will hurt The Courier-Journal.''
 For the paper's commitment to the region, Hazard deserves a ''historic sites in journalism'' marker, said Al Cross, a former Courier-Journal reporter who now directs the Institute for Rural Journalism and Community Issues, based at the University of Kentucky in Lexington.
 ''It showed the willingness of a faraway institution to make a substantial investment in a place where it gained nothing economically,'' he said. 
 One group not weeping over the loss of the Hazard bureau is the coal industry. Bill K. Caylor, president of the Kentucky Coal Association, which lobbies in Frankfort on behalf of coal operators, said there was little need for the paper's presence in eastern Kentucky because the industry had cleaned up its act.
 ''Our record on the environment has improved dramatically,'' Mr. Caylor said. ''We know what the rules are. We know what to do and how to do it, and comply with the law. So I don't see the lack of aggressive investigative reporters meaning that we'll run rampant,'' he said. ''Did The Courier-Journal play a watchdog role? Yes, newspapers do. They force us to not become lax.'' But he said that while Mr. Maimon had been fair, the news media often sensationalized events, and he said he would not miss that.
 A rival paper, The Lexington Herald-Leader, used to have a reporter in Hazard, but he left to cover the invasion of Iraq in 2003 and has been gone permanently since October 2004. The Herald-Leader, owned by Knight Ridder, which is up for sale, has two other bureaus in eastern Kentucky but has yet to fill the one in Hazard.
 ''We haven't had the flexibility to fill all the slots we wanted,'' said Tom Eblen, managing editor of The Herald-Leader. ''It's sad whenever newspapers have to cut back coverage,'' he added, ''but it's been an evolution you see all over the country, with papers focusing on tighter circulation areas.''
 Catering to the suburbs has become standard operating procedure, said Mr. Arthur of Morgan Stanley. ''Companies, when pressed, will eliminate their circulation in outlying areas where their advertisers aren't reaching,'' he said. ''They get a better return in the suburbs. Advertisers don't want to pay to be 100 miles out.''
 Mr. Manassah said The Courier-Journal, which now produces a neighborhood section once a week on Wednesdays for different parts of Louisville, planned to add a second day of neighborhood sections on the weekends. He said that closing the bureaus was a trade-off.
 ''You lose the daily contact,'' he acknowledged. ''But that doesn't necessarily mean you lose the important impact stories that have made this newspaper over the years,'' he said, citing recent series on health care and the courts system. 
 The two other Courier-Journal bureaus that are closing are in Elizabethtown, an exurb about 40 miles from Louisville, and Paducah, an isolated river town about four hours from Louisville in western Kentucky. Michael Lindberger, 34, The Courier-Journal's reporter in Elizabethtown, is leaving to finish law school and to be a stringer for Time magazine. James Malone, 53, The Courier's reporter in Paducah for the last 13 years, has tentatively decided to stay with the paper, though he will probably have to move to Louisville.
 ''I always felt that someone who plunked down 50 cents for the paper got a little something extra because we were out here,'' he said. 
 David Hawpe, the editorial director and vice president at the paper, as well as a former reporter in Hazard, just spent a week in eastern Kentucky cultivating sources and is advising others to do the same. 
 ''All change involves some loss, but it also creates opportunity,'' he said, noting that he was developing a group of writers around the state to help keep the paper informed.
 ''Breaking-news stories are not the issue,'' he added. ''The issue is will we have the contacts, the eyes and ears necessary'' to do meaningful reports, he said. ''If we don't do a good job, our historic connection with the rest of the state will fall apart.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan Maimon ran The Louisville Courier-Journal's Hazard, Ky., bureau from his home for five years. Now Mr. Maimon is moving to a newspaper in Las Vegas. (Photo by Shawn Poynter for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
The newspaper has a history of tough reporting on the coal industry. The issue of March 13, 1976, was about the Scotia mine disaster.
 Mayor Bill Gorman of Hazard said closing The Courier-Journal bureaus would hurt regions of the state. (Photo by Shawn Poynter for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURFACE MINING (90%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); COAL MINING (88%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (76%); COAL INDUSTRY (73%); MINE WORKERS (72%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (71%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (70%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (70%); BLACK LUNG DISEASE (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (68%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (52%) Coal; News and News Media; Accidents and Safety; Mines and Mining; Strip Mining; Industrial and Occupational Hazards; Newspapers; Computers and the Internet; Coal; Shutdowns (Institutional)

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Courier-Journal (Louisville); Gannett Co

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (93%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); FRANKFORT, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (96%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Kentucky; Louisville (Ky) 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



623 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: The Pain That Is Yet to Come

 BODY:
Though we don't know the final figures, we do know that the United States set a record for foreign debt in 2005. Through November, last year's trade deficit had already exceeded the deficit posted for all of 2004, itself a record. 
 The trade gap is financed by foreign lenders, mainly central banks in Asia and offshore hedge funds. Ditto most of the federal budget deficit, $319 billion last year. Because America has so far been spared the worst effects of overborrowing -- a sharply falling dollar and spiking interest rates -- the Bush administration sees no cause for alarm, suggesting instead that foreigners will be honored to keep lending us whatever we need, on our terms, whenever we need it.
But absent policy changes to curb its borrowing, America cannot escape the consequences of its debt indefinitely. The effects may be sudden or gradual, but either way, they mean a weaker economy than would otherwise be the case. 
 The dollar, which theoretically should have declined under the debt load in 2005, was buoyed last year by foreigners' willingness to park their cash in higher-yielding dollar-based assets while other developed economies sputtered. Investors were also drawn into dollars because of political setbacks in Europe, like the defeat of the European Constitution. And Congress helped to prop up the dollar by offering a one-time tax break that induced many American companies to convert their foreign earnings into hundreds of billions of dollars. But now Germany and Japan are rallying, the tax break has expired for most companies, and the dollar is facing new challenges: China, for instance, recently stated its intention to invest more of the dollars it earns in other currencies. 
 For the past few years, the United States' economy has overcome the drag of big deficits, mainly because the housing boom let Americans borrow and spend, despite stagnating wages. But the boom appears to be moderating, a slowdown that will only worsen if America's foreign indebtedness leads to sustained downward pressure on the dollar and upward pressure on interest rates. 
 Deeply in debt, individual Americans can't be expected to keep borrowing and spending. And government, also deeply in the red, won't be able to help much. Yet despite an estimated budget deficit of $400 billion this year, further tax cuts still top the Republican agenda. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (71%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%) United States Economy; Editorials; Credit

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



624 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: An Enron Jury Free of Grudges? Easy, Judge Says

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and SIMON ROMERO; Kyle Whitmire contributed reporting from Birmingham, Ala., for this article.

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Chances are that in this city's pool of 2.3 million registered voters, there are at least 16 people who are not angry about the implosion of Enron, the largest business collapse in history. But finding them in a single day could be a challenge. 
 That has not deterred Judge Simeon T. Lake III of Federal District Court, who will begin the much-anticipated criminal trial of the former Enron chief executives Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling on Monday.
Judge Lake said in court on Thursday that he expected to choose a panel of 12 jurors and 4 alternates from 100 prospective members in one day. After examining responses to the jury questionnaires, Judge Lake indicated that he felt they did not show evidence of prejudice against the defendants. ''I've been impressed by the apparent lack of bias or influence from media exposure,'' he said.
 The lawyers defending Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling have contended for months that finding impartial jurors in Houston would be difficult, if not impossible. But the judge has rejected two requests to move the trial outside of Houston, where Enron was based, and has repeatedly denied pleas by the defense lawyers to allow them to question individual jurors during the final selection process, called voir dire. 
 The defense lawyers say they are deeply troubled by responses to jury questionnaires, which came back with mostly negative comments about Enron and the defendants. Many Houstonians hold a grudge against Enron's leadership for the company's collapse, which directly wiped out more than 4,000 jobs and retirement accounts and sent shock waves through the city's economy. 
 Edward J. Bronson, a jury consultant from California who was hired by the defense to study the potential juror responses, noted that among 280 questionnaires, ''greed'' appeared 272 times and ''crook'' appeared 55 times.
 ''Someone has to be held accountable for what happened to Enron,'' Leslie Pierce, a special education teacher, said here on Saturday. ''How could these men not have known what was going on? People here will be in an uproar if they are not blamed.''
 The notion that a judge overseeing something as far-reaching and complex as the Enron trial could pick a jury in a day was assailed by several outside legal experts and jury consultants, who argued that rushing the process could only hurt the chances that Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling would get a fair hearing in Houston.
 ''To get this done in one day would be a travesty of justice,'' said Howard Varinsky, an independent jury consultant who worked for the prosecution in the Martha Stewart and Scott Peterson trials. 
 ''About a week would be more appropriate,'' said Mr. Varinsky, who nevertheless believes Houston, the nation's fourth-largest city, is varied and big enough to produce objective jurors for the trial.
 Of course, the one-day idea could simply be an effort by Judge Lake, who is known for his efficiency, to establish his authority and inject some urgency into the process. But if he proves to be serious, the defense could well begin a trial that is expected to last up to six months facing an uphill fight to disabuse jurors of any prejudices about Mr. Skilling and Mr. Lay. The government has charged Mr. Skilling with 31 counts of conspiracy, fraud and insider trading in connection with Enron's spectacular collapse in December 2001. Mr. Lay is charged with seven counts of fraud and conspiracy.
 Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling are reportedly spending more than $20 million on their joint defense. Their lawyers have dedicated considerable resources to the jury issue, hiring pollsters, political scientists, sociologists and jury consultants to study the prospective pool, which began with 400 people. ''This is a monumental problem,'' said Michael Ramsey, Mr. Lay's lead lawyer. ''It overshadows all the other problems we have.''
 Trying in a defendant's hometown a case that involves allegations of corporate corruption is not always a disadvantage. In last year's trial of Richard M. Scrushy, the former chief executive of the HealthSouth Corporation, Mr. Scrushy, who is white, used the hometown venue to his advantage by working to appeal on an emotional level to the predominantly black jury.
 Mr. Scrushy joined a black church in Birmingham and was accompanied to the courtroom by groups of black supporters, including pastors from local churches. One of those pastors recently said Mr. Scrushy had paid him and an employee to make public displays of their support.
 Even with local hostility, ''the courtroom is where you create the level playing field,'' said Donald V. Watkins, Mr. Scrushy's lead defense lawyer. ''It is the forum where you can demonize the government's witnesses and humanize your client.'' Mr. Watkins said that before the trial, polling in Birmingham showed that more than 90 percent of residents there thought Mr. Scrushy was guilty. In the end, he was acquitted of all charges.
 Still, it might be challenging for Mr. Skilling and Mr. Lay to turn Houston into an advantage. In the late 1990's Enron was the highest-profile company here, and even Houston's beloved downtown baseball stadium was first named after it. The effects of its collapse were deeply felt. 
 Richard Trippie, a pediatric dentist who lives in Baytown, about 25 miles east of Houston, said Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling ''were playing fast and loose with other people's money.'' But, he said, ''I think they will find enough people that don't have an ax to grind'' to serve as jurors.
 Moira Barela, a retired high school teacher, said of Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling, ''They should throw the book at them.'' Her negative views about the men were shaped, she said, by watching the documentary ''The Smartest Guys in the Room,'' which was showing at one Houston theater not far from Enron's former headquarters for more than six months. Still, she said, ''There are still a lot of very conservative people in Houston who wouldn't think a big corporation could do any wrong.''
 The level of emotion in Houston was palpable in the pool of prospective jurors, which started out numbering 400 and was culled to 100, mostly through responses to a 76-question form. (If a jury cannot be chosen from the 100 on Monday, a few dozen prospective jurors remain in reserve.) 
 ''In my experience I have never seen the type of vituperative responses and opinions expressed by 80 percent of the large jury panel as are present in this case,'' said Dick DeGuerin, a Houston defense lawyer, in a filing on behalf of Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling's second request to move the trial. 
 Mr. Bronson, the defense's jury consultant, said that only 18 jurors among the 280 whose questionnaires he analyzed said they did not harbor negative views about Enron -- ''hardly a cross section of the Houston community,'' he said. 
 Sean M. Berkowitz, the director of the Enron Task Force at the Justice Department, said in a recent filing with the court that the detailed questionnaire provided ''safeguards for determining the impartiality of jurors'' that ''exceed those sought by'' Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling. Samantha Martin, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined to comment further.
 Mr. Bronson said Judge Lake should allow the lawyers ample time to question the jurors in court on Monday, a recommendation echoed by other outside legal experts. Federal judges like Judge Lake generally question jurors themselves in an effort to explore in greater depth the answers that the jurors have given to written questions, while in state courts lawyers aremore involved in the process. 
 Abraham Abramovsky, a professor of criminal law at Fordham University, said the Enron trial was ''a unique case and should be handled as such.'' He added: ''If you want jurors to concentrate and really believe in the presumption of innocence, you have to show them that you really are concerned with prejudices and adverse publicity.''
 Without the chance to do additional questioning, Mr. Ramsey and Daniel Petrocelli, Mr. Skilling's lead lawyer, may have few options except to try to influence the jurors during the trial. 
 The defense could opt to hire a ''shadow jury'' composed of people who closely match the racial and economic profile of the jurors chosen by the court. The shadow jury would monitor the trial from the spectator benches in the courtroom and then be quizzed by consultants on their impressions, without ever knowing if they were working for the defense or for the prosecution. But Mr. Ramsey said he was not in favor of this approach, having been unsatisfied with a shadow jury he used in a high-profile murder case three years ago. ''It is a total luxury item that can be misleading,'' he said. 
 Some in Houston say that in the end their city will not prove to be a liability for the defense. ''This is probably the best place they could have gotten a trial,'' said Cameo Wachinsky, a film producer, as she walked out of a bookstore here on Saturday. ''People are crooked here. This is Texas. They definitely will listen to both sides.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Television trucks lined up yesterday in Houston outside the federal court building, at left, preparing for the trial of two former Enron executives. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURY DUTY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); JUDGES (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%) Accounting and Accountants; Bankruptcies; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Public Opinion; Jury System 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Enron Corp; Enron Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%) Alexei Barrionuevo; Simon Romero; Simeon T III (Judge) Lake; Kenneth L Lay; Jeffrey K Skilling; Edward J Bronson

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Houston (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



625 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Preparing for a Historic Transition At the Top of the Federal Reserve
Alan Greenspan is scheduled to step down on Tuesday as the Federal Reserve's maestro and hand over the most powerful economic job in the world to Ben S. Bernanke, a former Fed governor and professor of economics at Princeton. Mr. Greenspan is almost an institution in Washington -- constantly dispensing economic advice to top lawmakers and presidents, regardless of which party is in power. In sharp contrast, Mr. Bernanke had almost no political ties until a few years ago and has already told lawmakers that he will keep a much lower political profile. [Page C1.] 


'American Idol' Proves That It Has Staying Power
Ratings for the fifth season of ''American Idol'' have far exceeded the hopes of Fox executives, and the impact on the overall network competition is staggering. Numbers like this every week from now until the end of the season would make Fox an instant threat to repeat its seasonal win in the competition for the 18-49 age group among the networks. [C1.]

Television executives at a conference in Las Vegas last week were abuzz after the surprise announcement that the UPN and WB networks would combine to form a youth-oriented network called the CW. The impact is far-reaching because most cities have both UPN and WB affiliates, and after the deal is complete one affiliate in each market will not be part of the CW network. That leaves a gaping programming hole for the left-out affiliate. Advertising. [C9.]

Board of Steel Maker Rejects Hostile Bid
The board of the steel maker Arcelor unanimously rejected a $23 billion hostile takeover bid by Mittal Steel, amid concerns about potential job losses and differences of opinion over strategy. [C5.]

Blog Follows French Riots and Their Aftermath
When riots erupted on the outskirts of French cities last autumn, the Swiss weekly L'Hebdo decided to send reporters to the town of Bondy, northeast of Paris, on rotations of 7 to 10 days. Working from a tiny room borrowed from a local soccer club, the reporters have been doing a lot more than writing their typical weekly stories for the magazine, which is based in Lausanne and has a circulation of 44,000. They have posted short and long reports several times a day, as well as photos, on the BondyBlog. Months later, the reporters are still there. [C7.]

Effects of a Newspaper Bureau's Closure
The Louisville Courier-Journal's bureau in Hazard, Ky., a center for coal mining, is closing just as the industry is resurgent and mine safety issues are back in the news. [C1.]

'Memoirs of a Geisha' Not Approved for China
About a week before it is scheduled to appear in movie theaters here, the Hollywood film ''Memoirs of a Geisha'' has not received government approval to be shown in China, according to film executives. [C5.]

Lifetime Television Dust-Up Angers Viewers
Lifetime Entertainment, which features programming aimed at women and families, and EchoStar, which runs the Dish Network satellite television service, are slugging it out over contract terms, leaving many viewers without favorite shows like reruns of ''The Golden Girls.'' [C8.]

Online Cards Gain in Popularity, and Profit Potential
Card companies are generating profits through online e-cards, thanks to a healthy online ad market and a willingness among millions of consumers to pay for the cards. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (86%); REALITY TELEVISION (74%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); TAKEOVERS (69%); RIOTS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); NEWS REPORTING (66%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (62%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%); MINES & MINING (62%); FILM (61%); COAL MINING (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (52%); SOCCER (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (53%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (53%); MT (PAR) (53%); MT (NYSE) (53%); MT (AMS) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (53%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (53%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



626 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; IRAN'S NUCLEAR CHALLENGE: TEHRAN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2076 words

HEADLINE: A New Face in Iran Resurrects an Old Defiance

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nazila Fathi contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Since he took office as Iran's president nearly six months ago, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has been the subject of many jokes sent via text messages on cellphones across Iran. He has been spoofed on television and radio, here and abroad, as a bumpkin and a bigot for declaring the Holocaust a ''myth'' and causing international outrage over Iran's nuclear program. 
 One joke has the president combing his hair in a mirror and saying, ''O.K., male lice to the left, female lice to the right,'' ridiculing him as a religious extremist who wants to separate the sexes in public places.
But that is just part of the picture. 
 Beyond the prosperous tree-lined hills of northern Tehran, Mr. Ahmadinejad appears to be solidifying his support. He has traveled around the country, doling out promises of economic aid in some of the poorest regions, sticking with the humble clothing and religion-infused language that attracted his voters in the first place.
 ''He is leading a simple life,'' said Zabiollah Baderlou, 18, as he worked in a bakery in the city. ''TV showed us his house. It was very simple. He is making these efforts for the people and all he wants is Iran's dignity.''
 Most of all, despite the limited powers of Iran's presidency, Mr. Ahmadinejad, an ultraconservative former militia member, has used Western opposition to Iran's nuclear program to generate national unity and purpose. 
 Those dynamics have compelled even people who oppose him to give him room to maneuver. Stop Iranians on any street in any neighborhood and they are likely to demand that Iran be allowed to pursue a nuclear energy program, a sentiment that has served as a launching platform for Mr. Ahmadinejad's firebrand politics. 
 ''You get the feeling that Iran, under the present leadership, is looking for isolation and to go it alone,'' said a Western diplomat based in Tehran who spoke on the condition of anonymity so as to be able to continue working here. ''They want to show their way is the right way, and the former guys were wrong.''
 While the top leadership had decided to take a more confrontational approach with the West even before Mr. Ahmadinejad was elected, the new president began with such a harsh style that many officials were initially unnerved. But when the West failed to stop Iran from defiantly restarting its nuclear program, or to punish it, some opponents reluctantly accepted that Mr. Ahmadinejad was right and they were wrong. 
 ''First we thought he is not right,'' said a senior government official who consults frequently with the ruling clergy. ''Now we understand he is right. You need us more than we need you,'' he said of the West.
 The nuclear issue has provided fertile ground for the president to try to cultivate a new political class, one that is ideologically driven to provide a new, and at the same time reactionary, face to Iran. 
 After years of reformers controlling the government, Mr. Ahmadinejad is doing exactly what he promised, resurrecting the priorities of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, chastising the West at every turn and striving to forge a distinctly anti-Western national identity while re-establishing Iran's revolutionary influence across the Muslim world.
 At a conference in October titled ''The World Without Zionism'' he effectively called for wiping not just Israel off the map, but America, too.
 ''Many have tried to disperse disappointment in this struggle between the Islamic world and the infidels,'' he said. ''They say it is not possible to have a world without the United States and Zionism. But you know that this is a possible goal and slogan.''
 While sprinkling like-minded people into positions of power across the country, Mr. Ahmadinejad and his allies have demonstrated that they are undeterred by the complaints of the establishment, whether liberal or conservative. 
 They have instead taken their appeal directly to the poor and middle-class masses who are generally disgusted with a system widely viewed as corrupt and uncaring. 
 For the time being, they also have the quiet support of the nation's ultimate ruler, the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Even those members of Parliament who charge that the president's foreign and domestic policies are sending the nation hurtling toward disaster find there is little to do but watch from the sidelines. 
 ''Right now, Ahmadinejad is an individual representing a new body in the whole Iranian political system that had been marginalized and disorganized,'' said a political professor who has close ties to many people in the government and was afraid he would suffer retaliation if identified. ''They are in the process of making their identity -- and making history.''
 Mr. Ahmadinejad was largely unknown when he ran for office in June. He was the mayor of Tehran, the son of a blacksmith who had served in the hard-line Basiji militia -- a volunteer Islamic vigilante force -- and the Revolutionary Guard, and he was not expected to win. When he was elected, he was expected to fall into lockstep with the conservative forces that controlled every other institution of government. 
 Instead, he has charted his own course. 
 From the start he alienated many hard-liners by ignoring their nominees for important cabinet posts, turning to people he knew well, but who were largely unknown. Most of his choices had backgrounds in the military, the Basiji or the security services. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad has come to represent a generational split among conservatives, some political analysts said. They said he belonged to a group of ideologically conservative veterans of the Iran-Iraq war who effectively parked themselves among the so-called hard-liners. With Mr. Ahmadinejad's election, they have begun to coalesce into their own political force.
 With his team around him, Mr. Ahmadinejad has become the public face of Iran: aggressive, provocative and heatedly anti-American. He has adopted the phrase ''world oppressor,'' in place of Great Satan, and his speeches are laced with religious references, including an emphasis on one of the central principles of the Shiite sect of Islam: an appeal for justice. 
 Since ultimate power here is vested in the hands of appointed clergy, Mr. Ahmadinejad does not exert direct control over foreign affairs or nuclear policy. 
 But his ascension came at a time when the region was in turmoil, with Iraq bogged down in a violent insurgency, Islamic groups like Hamas in Gaza and the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt emerging as powerful political forces, and Iran itself determined to develop a nuclear program that it says is peaceful and the West charges is aimed at developing weapons. And that insulates him from criticism.
 ''If it wasn't for the foreign pressures, perhaps Mr. Ahmadinejad, and his ministers, would have been called to the Majlis many times to explain themselves,'' said Akbar Alami, a member of the foreign affairs committee of the Majlis, or Parliament, and an outspoken critic of the president. ''As the pressure has increased, the safety margins for him to operate have widened.''
 Moreover, Mr. Ahmadinejad is looking beyond Iran, seeking to fashion himself as a pan-Islamic leader, much the way Ayatollah Khomeini did. His ideological framework has been heavily influenced by his mentor and spiritual leader, Muhammad Taqi Mesbah Yazdi, a senior hard-line cleric who runs a school in the religious center of Qum and who advocates a strict Islamic government.
 It is not clear whether Mr. Ahmadinejad decided to push to make Iran a regional leader, or whether he is trying to carry out a decision made at a higher level. But that posture is increasingly part of Iran's defiant public statements.
 ''The nuclear challenge is a big deception in the West where they know we do not want nuclear weapons,'' Muhammad Javad Larijani, brother of the nation's chief nuclear negotiator said during a Friday prayer ceremony. ''What they are really concerned about is an advanced Islam. They are concerned the Islamic expansion will be a success, following the same concern they had for Communism.'' 
 It is still very early in the president's term, and there is ample evidence that many powerful people within the establishment are still worried by the tone and direction Mr. Ahmadinejad has taken. And some people speculated that the supreme leader might in the end muzzle him, should consequences turn out to be too dire. But for now, hampered by nationalist reaction to the West's pressure on Iran, even some of his harshest critics are treading lightly.
 ''I am saying that we have reached a sensitive point,'' Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the chairman of the Expediency Council, which has oversight of the executive branch, said in a recent speech, referring to Iran's relations with the West. ''There is a need for prudence on both sides.'' Mr. Rafsanjani ran against Mr. Ahmadinejad in the election for president, emphasizing a platform of engagement with the West.
 ''We all agree in the country that we should have a peaceful nuclear program,'' said Kazem Jalali, a member of Parliament. ''The difference is over how we can have an effective diplomacy. In the past months we have seen our officials use tough language in the foreign policy. They are adopting a confrontational approach, which does not seem to be acceptable by the international community. This is not balanced. We must pursue our interests in our foreign policy based on balanced relations with all countries.''
 From the sidelines, reformers are now trying to regroup. Many of them say that the best factor in their favor is the president himself. The feeling is that the president can not, ultimately, meet all his economic promises, and that his policy of confrontation will undermine rather than improve people's lives. 
 Abdullah Momenie, a leader within the student movement that called for a boycott of the presidential election, said: ''We see the sensitivity of the world community as a positive thing. Although we think it is an unwise action of power which may take the country to destruction, this might produce an opportunity for a democratic movement.''
 But so far the president has the upper hand. 
 President Ahmadinejad's comments at an Islamic conference in Mecca about wiping out Israel brought him international condemnation -- and applause from his target audience. 
 ''He raised the question in Mecca and he received a huge amount of praise,'' said Mehdi Chamran, the chairman of the Tehran City Council and a close adviser to the president who often travels with him. ''The people living in these countries, within their hearts, they are happy to hear these statements. If we can strengthen ties with the people that is most important. When we hear the Egyptians take him as a role model, this is a real sign he has reached the people.''
 In practical terms, the management of Iran has begun to change since the new government came to power. The Parliament has been fighting with the executive branch over a budget proposal, saying that its generous spending could threaten inflation. But the budget seems to reflect the president's campaign promise to spend more money on people's immediate needs. The president has taken a few swipes at tightening some social freedoms, banning Western music, for example, but that edict has hardly been enforced.
 President Ahmadinejad is forging a distinct style. For the first time, an Iranian president is regularly holding cabinet meetings in provinces around the country. He has so far visited five provinces and one city with his cabinet, walking the streets, shaking hands, kissing local people and promising a bevy of development projects.
 After a cabinet meeting in Hormozgan in the south, his aides announced that the government would allocate money to rebuild old buildings, install a gas pipeline, build and equip health centers, provide land for building a mosque, buy equipment for a hospital, build an athletic center for women and offer low-interest loans to families who lost their homes in an earthquake.
 No one says where the money will come from, or when, but the retail politics has won him affection from the base he continues to cultivate. 
 ''In my opinion, Ahmadinejad is a good person, a trustful person who believes in God, and I hope he is able to fulfill his pledges,'' said Morovat Asaadi, 36, a construction painter as he walked near Tajrish Square in Tehran. ''I like him very much. He is a good person.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Anti-American demonstrators in Tehran on Friday with posters of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, left, and Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
 An anti-American painting in Tehran. Iran's leader is forging an anti-Western national identity while reaffirming Iran's role in the Muslim world. (Photographs by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%) Atomic Weapons; Public Opinion; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Islam

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (93%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%) Michael Slackman; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad; Ruhollah (Ayatollah) (1900-89) Khomeini

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (91%); ISRAEL (79%) Iran; Israel; Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



627 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

ABC Anchor and Crewman Wounded in Iraq Blast
One of the new co-anchors of ABC's evening newscast, Bob Woodruff, and a network cameraman were seriously wounded when a large roadside bomb struck the Iraqi military vehicle carrying them near Taji, a restive area north of the capital. A1

Mr. 
Woodruff was in Baghdad for ABC reporting the good news that the Bush administration complains is ignored by the news media, and he ended up as a glaring illustration of the bad news. A12

Iran Leader Uses Popular Issue
Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, an ultra-conservative former militia member, has used Western opposition to Iran's nuclear program to generate national unity and purpose, compelling even people who oppose him to give him room to maneuver. A1

Iran has given inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency access to a razed military site but has failed to meet other demands under its international treaty obligations. This concession seemed intended to erode support for a drive to send Iran's case for judgment by the United Nations Security Council. A10

Palestinian Ire Underestimated
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice acknowledged that the United States had failed to understand the depth of hostility among Palestinians toward their longtime leaders, leading to an election victory by the militant group Hamas that has reduced to tatters crucial assumptions underlying American policies and hopes in the Middle East. A1

The Islamic militant group Hamas is poised to come to power and gunmen from the rival Fatah movement are strutting in the streets, yet it is not clear who will have effective control over the most heavily armed Palestinian group: the security forces. A6

Polish Rescuers Call Off Search
Rescue workers finished searching the wreckage of a football-field-size convention center in Katowice, a city in southern Poland, finding the bodies of 66 people who died when a snow-laden roof collapsed during the final hour of an international pigeon fanciers' fair. A4

Hussein Trial Disrupted
The trial of Saddam Hussein erupted into chaos, with the new chief judge ordering all four lead defendants removed from the courtroom, one of them kicking and screaming, and with the entire defense team walking out in protest. The defendants may now be tried in absentia. A13

Antiwar Figure Meets Chavez
With Cindy Sheehan, the antiwar campaigner, by his side in Caracas, Venezuela, President Hugo Chavez said she planned to protest again outside President Bush's ranch in Texas. A13

Georgia Gas Lines Repaired
Russia completed repairs to a natural gas pipeline carrying fuel over its border in the Caucasus, beginning to restore fuel to Georgia after a week of blackouts and heating fuel shortages strained relations between the two countries. A4

NATIONAL A14-20

Effort to Shift Balance On Court Bears Fruit
For the conservative legal movement, nurtured by the Federalist Society and the Reagan administration, Judge Alito's almost-certain confirmation to the Supreme Court is a triumph 25 years in the making. Conservatives hope they have shifted the balance of the Supreme Court in their direction on matters from abortion rights to school prayer. A1

Enron Judge to Select Jury
Judge Simeon T. Lake III, who will begin the much-anticipated criminal trial of the former Enron chief executives, said in court that he expected to choose a panel of 12 jurors and 4 alternates from the remaining 100 prospective members in one day. The defense lawyers say they are deeply troubled by the jury's responses to questionnaires. A1

Bill May Raise Health Costs
The Congressional Budget Office predicts in a new report that under a Congressional bill, 13 million low-income people face new or higher co-payments for medical services like doctor's visits and hospital care, and some of them will forgo care or drop out of Medicaid because of the higher costs. A14

FEMA Help Unused
The Interior Department offered trucks, boats, aircraft and thousands of law enforcement officers to help FEMA with the Hurricane Katrina rescue effort. But much of the equipment and personnel were not used as part of the federal response, or not used effectively. A14

G.O.P. to Choose New Leader
House Republicans will choose a leader to replace Tom DeLay in a private election that holds major significance for their party's public image and the approaching mid-term elections. Roy Blunt of Missouri, John A. Boehner of Ohio and John Shadegg of Arizona are all seeking to lead the party in a crucial year. A16

Few Using Military Program
Fewer than 70 service members have sought reimbursement for the cost of combat equipment they personally bought for use in Iraq and Afghanistan as part of a program that the Pentagon originally opposed. Pentagon officials contended that the reimbursement program would be a strain on its budget. A18

San Francisco Landmarks Trees
San Francisco officials amended the city's Urban Forestry Ordinance to allow the landmarking of significant trees, including those on private property. The amendment, which takes effect in February, treats trees much like historic buildings, protecting them and making it a crime to chop them down. A14

State of a Crucial Speech
After a bad year for his presidency -- when his competency was called into question, his main domestic initiative failed to pass and his foreign policy was challenged as never before -- President Bush's State of the Union address is vital to drive forward his policy agenda. Finding the words to accomplish that task falls in large part to a select few. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Man Is Found Dead In Indonesian Consulate
An Indonesian man stranded in New York for the weekend pending a flight home was found dead, a knife protruding from his chest and one hand nearly severed at the wrist, in a basement room of the Indonesian Consulate, the police said. B1

Police Officer Still in Danger
An off-duty police officer who was shot by a colleague who mistook him for a criminal remained in critical condition. Several witnesses offered varying accounts of what sparked a fracas inside a Bronx restaurant just before the shooting. B1

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Success for U.S. Ski Team
The United States ski team tied its own long-standing record, and demonstrated its depth going into the Turin Olympics, when it placed Scott Macartney on the podium at a World Cup super-G race in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany. D4

ARTS E1-8

Memoir Becomes a Novel
Martha Sherrill, daughter of the polling expert and software company founder Peter Sherrill, changed her plans to write a memoir of her father and instead is publishing a novel, ''The Ruins of California.'' The author's plans changed when she uncovered a secret about her father that she chose not to reveal. E1

Harper Lee Speaks
Harper Lee, the author of ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' who remains extremely private and makes only rare public appearances, met with the winners of an essay contest on the subject of her book. E1

OBITUARIES A21

Arthur Bloom
The original director of the CBS news program ''60 Minutes'' and the first recipient of a Lifetime Achievement Award in News Direction from the Directors Guild of America, he was 63. A21

Beth Fallon
A political reporter whose columns in the Daily News and the New York Post brought an irreverent eye to city life, she was 64. A21

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Historic Change at Fed
Alan Greenspan is scheduled to step down on Tuesday as the Federal Reserve's chairman and hand over the most powerful economic job in the world to Ben S. Bernanke, a former Fed governor and professor of economics at Princeton. C1

Laptops vs. Cellphones
In the year since Nicholas Negroponte unveiled his prototype for a $100 laptop, he has found himself wrestling with Microsoft and the politics of software. Now, Microsoft executives have started discussing what they say is a less expensive alternative: turning a cellphone into a computer by connecting it to a television and a keyboard. C1

'Idol' Remains Strong
Executives at Fox were hopeful that ''American Idol'' would continue to do well in its fifth season, but even they were surprised at just how high the numbers were for the first few shows, especially among 18-to-49-year old viewers. C1

The Day the News Left Town
The Louisville Courier-Journal is pulling the plug on its bureau in Hazard, Ky., a center for coal mining, just as mine safety issues are back in the news. C1

C.V. Starr Sues Rival
C.V. Starr, the privately held insurance company controlled by Maurice R. Greenberg, has filed a lawsuit against American International Group accusing it of trying to destroy Starr's business. C2

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Louisiana in limbo; the pain that is yet to come; jailing a critic in Kurdistan; now listen up.

Columns: Bob Herbert and Paul Krugman.

Autos D8
Bridge E4
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E8
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HAMAS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); POWER FAILURES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); AL FATAH (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); JUDGES (65%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) TEXAS, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); POLAND (90%); GEORGIA (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



628 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan, Another Monument in Washington, Prepares to Leave

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
It was a farewell dinner at the White House that only Alan Greenspan could have engineered.
 In the Blue Room last Monday night, with President Bush as host, several dozen of Mr. Greenspan's closest friends gathered to toast him before he retires this week as chairman of the Federal Reserve.
But it was the list of guests, old friends whom Mr. Greenspan specifically asked the White House to invite, that highlighted his stature as both an icon and an iconoclast.
 At one table was Vice President Dick Cheney, the hard-nosed combatant at the Bush White House, whose friendship with Mr. Greenspan began 30 years ago in the Ford White House. 
 But just a few tables away was Robert E. Rubin, a Treasury secretary under President Clinton and a man so disliked in the Bush White House that many officials use his name as a sneering put-down -- ''Rubinomics.'' 
 The guest list also included Vernon E. Jordan Jr., the millionaire lawyer and ubiquitous adviser to Democratic leaders, and Peter G. Peterson, a Republican who has infuriated the White House by lambasting Mr. Bush's budget deficits. 
 The list underscores how Mr. Greenspan, despite being a lifelong Republican, had a knack for building friendships across the political spectrum and, almost unheard-of in today's bitterly divided capital, made few enemies in his 18-year tenure. 
 ''He likes to be challenged by intelligent people,'' said Andrea Mitchell, Mr. Greenspan's wife and a correspondent for NBC News.
 Now 79, Mr. Greenspan is scheduled to step down on Tuesday as the Fed's maestro and hand over the most powerful economic job in the world to Ben S. Bernanke, a former Fed governor and professor of economics at Princeton.
 After serving a term longer than that of any other Fed chairman except William McChesney Martin Jr., who held the job from 1951 until 1970, Mr. Greenspan's departure will be a historic transition. Mr. Bernanke, who is expected to be confirmed by the Senate on Tuesday, is likely to usher in a new era at the Fed -- one that is less personalized, less idiosyncratic and perhaps less mysterious.
 Mr. Greenspan is almost an institution in Washington -- ubiquitous on the party circuit and a constant dispenser of economic advice to top lawmakers and presidents, regardless of which party is in power. In sharp contrast, Mr. Bernanke had almost no political ties until a few years ago. Many of his closest friends said they never realized he was a Republican. 
 Mr. Bernanke has already told lawmakers that he will keep a lower political profile. Where Mr. Greenspan waded into explosive political debates over Social Security and tax cuts, Mr. Bernanke has vowed to stay silent on issues that are not directly tied to monetary policy.
 Mr. Bernanke is a champion of greater openness and demystification at the Fed. He would like it to publicly peg its policies to an explicit target for inflation -- an idea that Mr. Greenspan opposes because it might restrict the Fed's maneuvering room.
 But for all of Mr. Greenspan's flair, from his visibility at parties to his knack for catchy phrases like ''irrational exuberance,'' many veterans of economic policy say it is a mistake to think no one can fill his shoes.
 ''Alan Greenspan played two roles -- one as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the second as an economic sage,'' said Gene B. Sperling, a former top economic adviser to President Clinton. ''You need a lot of political savvy to rise to the level of economic sage, but I don't think you need so much simply to be a good Federal Reserve chairman.'' 
 Mr. Greenspan is not disappearing. He plans to write a book and start a consulting firm called Greenspan Associates. And while he does plan to write and comment on the economy, he has vowed to avoid any comment about monetary policy.
 Ms. Mitchell, his wife, said he recently started figuring out how to do his own research on the Internet; he is still in the process of getting a personal e-mail address. ''He spent his entire adult life trying to understand how the economy is organized, and he's not going to stop now,'' Ms. Mitchell said.
 It remains to be seen whether Mr. Bernanke's background as an academic will lead to a different style of leadership at the Fed. 
 Mr. Greenspan's approach has been as much a matter of art as science, and his instincts and insights defied simple explanations. Though Mr. Greenspan loves nothing more than to crunch numbers, he was openly skeptical about economic models and preferred to look for ''anomalies'' that hint at new truths.
 The most famous example was his recognition, long before the Fed's own staff, that productivity was climbing much faster than the government's official numbers showed. 
 Mr. Greenspan, who proved it by crunching his own numbers, once compared his effort to that of scientists who had originally inferred the existence of the planet Pluto without actually seeing it.
 Mr. Bernanke puts a high value on economic models. But like his predecessor, Mr. Bernanke also has a strong appetite for diving into data, hunting for fresh ideas and coming up with his own bons mots.
 In 2002, he startled some economists by declaring that the Fed could prevent deflation, an across-the-board drop in consumer prices, by printing money. The Fed, he said, had a novel technology ''called a printing press.''
 Mr. Bernanke has also recognized the risks of overconfidence. He once described the process of setting monetary policy as similar to driving a car by looking in the rear-view mirror and being uncertain as to how it would react to a tap on the accelerator or the brake.
 Many people still say Mr. Greenspan provided the crucial political endorsement for President Bush's tax cuts of 2001, arguing that the cuts were needed to reduce what seemed then like huge budget surpluses. 
 Mr. Bernanke is very different. He spent most of his career as an academic. He is a Republican, but had no ties to Mr. Bush until he was nominated as a Fed governor in 2002.
 The Fed today is much freer from outside political pressure than it was when Mr. Greenspan arrived in 1987. Mr. Greenspan came under repeated pressure to lower interest rates in the 1980's and early 1990's from the first Bush administration, under George H. W. Bush. 
 That stopped when President Clinton took office, and has not resumed.
 Current and former Fed governors say there is little disagreement between Republican and Democratic board members that the Fed's top priority is to maintain stable prices. The debates are primarily about differing views on where the economy is headed.
 But the composition of the Fed's policy-making board has changed, as Democrats have gradually left the board and Mr. Bush has named Republicans to take their seats.
 Indeed, on Friday Mr. Bush nominated two Republicans, both economists who have worked in his White House, to fill open seats on the Federal Reserve Board. 
 One of the nominees is Randall S. Kroszner, a professor at the University of Chicago who worked on the White House Council of Economic Advisers during Mr. Bush's first term. The other is Kevin M. Warsh, a former investment banker at Morgan Stanley, who is currently a special assistant to Mr. Bush on economic policy.
 At this point, there are no signs the Fed has tilted its policies to make Mr. Bush's life easier.
 Mr. Bernanke's biggest challenge is likely to come from the economy itself rather than from the politicians around him.
 The government reported on Friday that economic growth slowed sharply in the last three months of 2005, to an annual rate of 1.1 percent, from 4.1 percent in the third quarter of 2005, and many economists worry that a slump in housing could lead to a broader slowdown.
 Mr. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary who became a particularly close friend of Mr. Greenspan during the Clinton years, said Mr. Bernanke's biggest problem may prove to be the United States' soaring trade deficit and overall foreign indebtedness.
 If the imbalances lead to a crisis for the dollar or a plunge in foreign confidence about the United States, Mr. Rubin said, the Federal Reserve could face unpleasant choices similar to those that Paul A. Volcker, Mr. Greenspan's predecessor, faced in taming inflation.
 ''It may be that the next Fed chairman will face a challenge a little more like what Volcker faced, which is a challenge routed in the economic conditions of this country,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''In his case it was inflation. In this case, it may be the imbalances.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan Greenspan in the Federal Reserve board room last week. He is to step down tomorrow. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Mr. Greenspan, who has headed the Fed for 18 years, used his political skill to become an economic sage. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX LAW (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (52%) United States Economy; Credit; United States Economy

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BEN BERNANKE (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); PETE PETERSON (56%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Ben S (Prof) Bernanke; George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



629 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Would Put Poor Online By Cellphone

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
It sounds like a project that just about any technology-minded executive could get behind: distributing durable, cheap laptop computers in the developing world to help education. But in the year since Nicholas Negroponte, the founder of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Laboratory, unveiled his prototype for a $100 laptop, he has found himself wrestling with Microsoft and the politics of software. 
 Mr. Negroponte has made significant progress, but he has also catalyzed the debate over the role of computing in poor nations -- and ruffled a few feathers. He failed to reach an agreement with Microsoft on including its Windows software in the laptop, leading Microsoft executives to start discussing what they say is a less expensive alternative: turning a specially configured cellular phone into a computer by connecting it to a TV and a keyboard.
Bill Gates, Microsoft's co-founder and chairman, demonstrated a mockup of his proposed cellular PC at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas earlier this month, and he mentioned it as a cheaper alternative to traditional PC's and laptops during a public discussion here at the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum. 
 Craig J. Mundie, Microsoft's vice president and chief technology officer, said in an interview here that the company was still developing the idea, but that both he and Mr. Gates believed that cellphones were a better way than laptops to bring computing to the masses in developing nations. ''Everyone is going to have a cellphone,'' Mr. Mundie said, noting that in places where TV's are already common, turning a phone into a computer could simply require adding a cheap adaptor and keyboard. Microsoft has not said how much those products would cost.
 Mr. Mundie said there was no firm timing for the cellphone strategy, but that the company had encouraged such innovations in the past by building prototypes for consumer electronics manufacturers. 
 It is not clear to what extent Mr. Negroponte's decision to use free open-source software in the laptop instead of Windows spurred the alternative plan from Microsoft. But Mr. Gates has been privately bitter about it, and Mr. Mundie has been skeptical in public about the project's chance of success.
 ''I love what Nick is trying to do,'' Mr. Mundie said. ''We have a lot of concerns about the sustainability of his approach.''
 This has not deterred Mr. Negroponte. At a private breakfast meeting on the digital divide at the forum on Saturday, Mr. Negroponte said that he had a commitment from Quanta Computer of Taiwan to manufacture the portable computers, which would initially use a processing chip from Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale, Calif. He also said he had raised $20 million to pay for engineering and was close to a final commitment of $700 million from seven nations -- Thailand, Egypt, Nigeria, India, China, Brazil and Argentina -- to purchase seven million of the laptops.
 Also on Saturday, Mr. Negroponte's nonprofit group, One Laptop Per Child, signed a memorandum of understanding with the United Nations Development Program at a news conference here, under which the two will work together to develop technology and learning resources. 
 Mr. Negroponte is showing only a mockup of his laptop, which will have a carrying handle, built-in stereo speakers, a wireless data connection, a hand crank to generate power and a screen that is visible even in bright sunlight. He said that he hoped to be able to hand out working laptops to some participants at the forum in Davos next year.
 He also acknowledged that months of discussions with Microsoft and Apple Computer about using their operating system software for his computer had been fruitless, and that as a result, the laptops would use a version of Linux, the open-source operating system.
 According to several people familiar with the discussions, Microsoft had encouraged Mr. Negroponte to consider using the Windows CE version of its software, and Microsoft had been prepared to make an open-source version of the program available.
 Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, had also offered a free version of his company's OS X operating system, but Mr. Negroponte rejected that idea because the software was largely not open-source, meaning users could not get free access to software and its source code, which they could then modify. Mr. Negroponte said in an interview here that he had resolved to use Linux not because it was free but because of its quality and maintainability.
 ''I chose open-source because it's better,'' he said. ''I have 100 million programmers I can rely on.''
 At the same time, Mr. Negroponte, who is on the board of the Motorola Corporation, said he was not opposed to the idea of building a low-cost computer using a cellphone. He said his research group at the M.I.T. Media Lab had experimented with the idea of a cellphone that would project a computer display onto a wall and also project the image of a keyboard, sensing the motion of fingers over it. But the researchers decided the idea was less practical than a laptop.
 Some business and development policy specialists have raised questions about Mr. Negroponte's laptop, pointing to the price of Internet connectivity, which can cost $24 to $50 a month in developing nations. But Mr. Negroponte said networking costs would not be an obstacle because the laptops would be made to connect automatically in a so-called mesh network, making it possible for up to 1,000 computers to wirelessly share just one or two land-based Internet connections.
 The Media Lab researchers are also planning to approach an upcoming meeting of the international consortium overseeing G.S.M., or global system for mobile communications, for cellular phones about setting up a data standard that would allow low-cost and educational use of wireless network capacity.
 ''We call the concept 'standby bits,' '' Mr. Negroponte said, explaining that the concept was similar to the way standby passengers on airlines can travel when there are empty seats. The laptops would send and receive Internet data only when higher-paying commercial data was not being transmitted.
 At the Davos meeting, a number of participants raised questions about the wisdom of Mr. Negroponte's plan to persuade governments to underwrite the cost of the laptops.
 Stuart Gannes, director of the Digital Vision Program at Stanford University, said a better way to bring computers into poor countries would be to put them into the hands of entrepreneurs and make them revenue generators. ''We need to look at technology as a way to bring cash into the poorest communities,'' Mr. Gannes said.
 Mr. Negroponte said that ''a lot of people were apprehensive'' about the project before he won the backing from Quanta, but that he believed he had put the doubts to rest. Quanta manufactures about one-third of the world's laptop computers, he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A booth selling prepaid cellphone cards in Congo. Microsoft sees phones as a conduit to the Internet. (Photo by Dino Mahtani/Reuters)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (93%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (88%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (88%); ENGINEERING (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRADE SHOWS (53%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; Linux (Computer Operating System); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); QUANTA COMPUTER INC (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%) Microsoft Corp; Massachusetts Institute of Technology; One Laptop Per Child (Orgn); Media Lab (Mit)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 2382 (TAIEX) (58%); AMD (NYSE) (50%); AMD (FRA) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (79%) Nicholas Negroponte; Bill (William H) Gates; John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (59%) EGYPT (79%); NIGERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%); SWITZERLAND (59%); THAILAND (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



630 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: A Fight Over Fees Unplugs 'The Golden Girls' Network 

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Who would think that reruns of tame sitcoms like ''The Golden Girls'' could spark a firestorm?
 But that happened when negotiations broke down between Lifetime Entertainment, which features programming aimed at women and families, and EchoStar, which runs the Dish Network satellite television service. When their contract expired on Dec. 31, EchoStar took Lifetime Television and Lifetime Movie Network off the air, leaving its 12 million subscribers to do without shows like the sitcom starring Betty White as one of four older, unmarried women living in Miami.
The two sides have been slugging it out ever since. EchoStar claims that Lifetime wanted a 76 percent rate increase for a three-year contract, which Charles W. Ergen, EchoStar's chairman and chief executive, said was unacceptable and unreasonable. EchoStar has already replaced Lifetime's movie network on one of its tiers with Oxygen, a rival women's network. 
 For its part, Lifetime, one of the more popular women's channels, said that it proposed a modest increase of only a few pennies a month per subscriber, and that EchoStar wanted fees to be cut by one-third.
 Betty Cohen, the chief executive of Lifetime Entertainment Services, said Mr. Ergen was ''known for always trying to squeeze every penny out of people.'' 
 After EchoStar unplugged Lifetime, the network, which is based in New York, took out full-page newspaper advertisements saying, ''Dish doesn't value women,'' and encouraging Dish subscribers to switch to DirectTV, a rival satellite television company. Some women have held rallies to decry the loss of their favorite shows and to sling barbs at Mr. Ergen, who has a record of public scuffles with television programmers.
 As in most negotiations, the truth can be found somewhere in the middle. Neither side will provide many details of the offers, but it is likely that the proposed rate increases are not as draconian as portrayed. Neither side is free of blame, either. Like many big TV programmers, Lifetime wants more for its content. 
 Increases in fees charged by programmers have slowed recently because cable and satellite distributors have become bigger and have more clout. But rates are still rising faster than inflation, and distributors like EchoStar, which pass along the increases to consumers, are the ones that take heat from the public and Congress.
 EchoStar, based in Englewood, Colo., is more willing than others to pick a fight with networks like Lifetime because -- unlike Time Warner Cable, DirecTV and others -- it is not part of a big media conglomerate that also owns programming. So EchoStar has the freedom and incentive to protect its reputation as a low-cost television provider.
 ''In a world of increasingly vertical media companies, EchoStar has no ax to grind except for its own interests as a distributor,'' said Craig Moffett, who covers the cable industry for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, an investment research company. ''So it's been among the most aggressive at trying to hold down affiliate fees to networks.''
 But EchoStar appears to pick its adversaries carefully. Two years ago, it waged a similar war with Viacom that it ultimately lost, Mr. Moffett said, because Viacom -- which owns CBS, MTV and Nickelodeon -- could push back with great force. By contrast, Lifetime, which is jointly owned by the Walt Disney Company and the Hearst Corporation, controls only two big channels itself. Lifetime's parents, however, could use their leverage to try to break the deadlock; Hearst owns 28 local broadcast stations and Disney owns the ABC and ESPN networks.
 Despite their positions, neither EchoStar nor Lifetime wants the standoff to continue too long. Lifetime remains immensely popular, as Mr. Ergen has discovered. He admitted that Dish had already ''lost a few customers without Lifetime and will continue to lose some,'' but that ''the defections have been minor and not material.'' And Lifetime does not want to permanently lose Dish's 12 million potential viewers, because that could dilute its advertising rates.
 Financial reality, in the end, may trump all the corporate posturing.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Among Lifetime's offerings is ''Human Trafficking,'' starring Mira Sorvino. (Photo by Lifetime)
 Protesters in Denver earlier this month urged the Dish Network to lift its blackout of the popular Lifetime TV channels for women. (Photo by Jerry Cleveland/The Denver Post) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); WOMEN'S MARKET (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (89%); WOMEN (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%) Television; Demonstrations and Riots

COMPANY: DISH NETWORK CORP (92%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (60%); LIFETIME ENTERTAINMENT SERVICES LLC (58%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Echostar Communications Corp; Dish Network; Lifetime Television

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (92%); TWC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (60%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%)

PERSON: BETTY WHITE (79%); CHARLES ERGEN (77%) Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (51%) COLORADO, USA (66%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



631 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Bridge; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Guarding Against a Bad Split On the Way to Six No-Trump

BYLINE: By Phillip Alder

 BODY:
The brain drain started after World War II. Top professionals in their fields moved to the United States, where the rewards were greatest and the standard of living the best. No government official contemplated bridge players joining this migration, but many foreign stars have made their home in the United States. To name but a few: Benito Garozzo, Boris Koytchou, Sam Lev, Peter Leventritt, Jacek Pszczola, Barry Rigal and Alan Truscott.
 Michael Rosenberg of New Rochelle, N.Y., sort of fits on that list because he learned bridge in Scotland. But he was born in the United States, moved to Scotland with his family when he was 6 months old and returned in 1978, shortly before his 24th birthday. He is one of the very best players, in particular proving his card-play skill by winning the World Par Contest in 1998. 
 He was the declarer on the diagramed deal, which occurred during the Sunday Flight A/X Swiss Teams on Jan. 15 in the Hilton Rye Town hotel. It was submitted by East, Jerry Goldberg of Yonkers. He commented that they were doing poorly and were surprised to discover that in the last round they were drawn against the strong team including Rosenberg.
 North was Bruce Rogoff of Upper Grandview, N.Y. His three-spade response was Minor-Suit Stayman. And since three no-trump denied interest in the minors, North's four-no-trump quantitative raise was aggressive. With three fitting minor-suit honors, South jumped to six no-trump.
 At the other table, South made three no-trump with two overtricks, so a lot of points were riding on the result of this poor slam.
 West, Jane Dillenberg of New York City, led the heart jack. Declarer won with the dummy's heart ace and took a spade finesse. When it held, he analyzed the situation at length. Clearly, if diamonds were 3-3, the contract would almost certainly make. But in case the diamond split was bad, Rosenberg wondered about an extra chance via a squeeze or an endplay. Finally he decided that finding an opponent with the doubleton club jack was the only realistic hope. At Trick 3 South led the club queen from his hand.
 West chose to duck this, so declarer cashed the club ace and played a third club. A moment later Rosenberg claimed, taking three tricks in each suit and gaining 13 international match points.
 Afterward Rosenberg made some interesting points. If West had taken the club queen with her king and returned the heart ten, declarer would have had the option of trying the diamonds (discarding a heart from his hand), then running the club ten. This works when East has K-10-x of spades and the club jack. Alternatively, declarer could have cashed the third high heart (discarding a club from the dummy), then tried the diamonds. When they do not divide 3-3, South would lead dummy's club ten. If East started with the spade king, club jack and 5-2-4-2 or 4-3-4-2 distribution, he would be squeezed between spades and diamonds on the third club to dummy's nine. Similarly, if East were 4-2-4-3 with the club jack, he would have been squeezed by the third heart. But, Rosenberg concluded, it is probably best simply to win the second heart in his hand and to cash the club ace, playing for the jack to drop.
 Rosenberg also believes that whenever declarer has a ''good'' play available, a defender may be able to counter with his own ''good'' play. He pointed out that West would have found a brilliant duck at Trick 3 if she had begun with K-J-x-x of clubs and three diamonds.
 Although Rosenberg's team failed to place in this event, he won the most master points during the District 3 Tri-State Regional, with 82.69, ahead of Richard DeMartino of Riverside, Conn., with 56.08, and William Ehlers of West Orange, N.J., with 55.77.


GRAPHIC: Diagram 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARD GAMES (91%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); WORLD WAR II (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%) Bridge (Card Game) 

PERSON: Phillip Alder; Michael Rosenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (90%); SWITZERLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



632 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Body Found in Indonesian Consulate

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN and MARC SANTORA; Kate Hammer contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
An Indonesian man stranded in New York for the weekend pending a flight home was found dead yesterday, a knife protruding from his chest and one hand nearly severed at the wrist, in a blood-spattered basement room of the Indonesian Consulate on the Upper East Side, the police said.
 The consulate, an elegant 19th-century Beaux-Arts mansion off Fifth Avenue that is Indonesia's home in New York for cultural events, cocktail receptions, economic conferences and aid to travelers, was transformed on a quiet Sunday morning into the setting of a locked-door mystery. It appeared to be a homicide, investigators said, though they did not rule out suicide.
If it was suicide, the victim -- Bambang Wielianto, 35, of Jakarta, the Indonesian capital -- would have had to plunge a butcher knife into his chest before or after cutting his left wrist so deeply that his hand was almost severed. At least three knives, including the one in his chest, were found in the room, but no note, the police said. 
 But if it was murder, the motive was murky and the case swirled with Agatha Christie shadows. Mr. Wielianto, who had been put up at the consulate on Friday, was last seen on Saturday when he told a consulate employee that he was homesick and eager to get back to his wife and two children. He had been alone overnight in the four-story mansion, at 5 East 68th Street, except for a security guard and a visiting Indonesian diplomat.
 Investigators and employees said the diplomat, who was not identified by the authorities, stayed in a top-floor suite Saturday night and flew back yesterday to Los Angeles, where he works. And the security guard, who found the body and called the police just after 9 a.m., was said to have been posted all night at a desk just inside the consulate's locked basement door, about 25 feet from the room where the victim died.
 The virtually severed hand appeared to be a tantalizing clue. A hard-line Muslim group, the Majelis Mujahedeen Indonesia, began a campaign in Jakarta last month to demand the enforcement of the hudud, the harsh criminal code in the Muslim law called Shariah, which prescribes punishments like the amputation of hands for theft and stoning for adultery. 
 There were no signs of a break-in, investigators said. And under strict procedures of the security-conscious consulate -- rules sharpened by terrorist attacks in Bali and other parts of the Indonesian archipelago in recent years -- a visitor would have had to phone the guard and ask permission to enter the locked basement door, the only door used overnight. 
 The security guard, identified by fellow employees only as Adi, was one of many consulate workers and officials interviewed by the police yesterday. But there was no immediate word from investigators about what the guard saw or heard Saturday night and yesterday morning -- specifically whether anyone was allowed in or went out -- and the circumstances surrounding his discovery of the body.
 The investigation transformed the consulate into a movielike crime scene yesterday, with detectives and Indonesian and State Department officials scurrying in and out, access to the block cut off for hours and stunned employees and members of a regular Sunday dance class turned away by officers and yellow tape. Because the consulate is sovereign Indonesian territory, the police were there by invitation.
 Jay Suherwanco, on his way to a traditional Balinese dance class at the consulate, was amazed when told that there was a body inside. So was Nyoman Sapta, 42, director of the Gamelan Dharma Swara dance company, which meets there every Sunday for classes. ''No one knew him,'' Mr. Sapta said of the dead man. ''On Friday, people were like, 'Who's this guy?' and today he's dead.'' 
 Residents of the block were less sanguine. ''I thought they were filming for an episode of 'Law and Order,' '' Michelle Brilliant, who lives next door, said as she emerged with her daughter, Aza Hougie, 3, carrying a Snow White umbrella into the light drizzle of an overcast day.
 Little was known of Mr. Wielianto. Acup Setia, 45, who has been the consulate chauffeur for 20 years, said that he saw the victim's passport when the man arrived on Friday seeking accommodations, and that a fellow consulate employee had spoken to the visitor and learned that he had a wife and two children in Jakarta and had arrived in the United States on a tourist visa on Dec. 13.
 It was unclear where Mr. Wielianto had spent the intervening time, but he told the consular worker that he had come to New York from Philadelphia on Friday and needed a room for a couple of days until his departure for home. He said he had a confirmed seat on a Japan Air Lines flight leaving Wednesday, but was wait-listed for a flight departing as early as yesterday.
 While it is rare for Indonesian nationals to seek accommodations at the consulate, it happens two or three times a year and is not regarded as extraordinary, consular employees said. Diplomats and dignitaries are given suites on the consulate's upper floors, while the occasional traveler in need is given a room in the basement, they said.
 The room Mr. Wielianto was given is normally used to store the musical instruments of the Gamelan Dharma Swara company, mostly drums, gongs, brasses and other percussion pieces, according to Mr. Sapta, who said he himself moved the instruments out on Friday so that a bed for Mr. Wielianto could be moved in.
 To reach the room, one enters the basement from the sidewalk down a flight of steps to the right of the portico at the main entrance. Just inside the locked basement door is a large foyer, with the security guard's desk on the right and a reception area with seating for guests on the left. Straight ahead, at the back of the foyer, is a door leading to a hallway.
 Down that hallway, at the far end, is the consulate kitchen, where, one investigator said, the knives may have come from. On the left side of the hallway, between foyer and kitchen, a door leads into the room given to Mr. Wielianto. Among many unanswered questions in the case is what Mr. Wielianto did after getting the room -- whether he went out Saturday or met anyone in or outside the consulate.
 His body, the police said, was found on the floor of his room, shirtless and face up, the long knife protruding from his chest and his nearly severed left hand dangling loose. At least two other knives were found near the body, and blood streaked and spattered the room. It was unclear if the door had a lock.
 Signs of normalcy began returning to the consulate late in the day as a long-scheduled reception began upstairs even as detectives worked around the body in the basement. At 5:45 p.m., as guests in evening dress flowed up the portico into a reception given by the Council of Senior Centers and Services to benefit the New York City Conference on Aging, men carried the body out in a bag. An autopsy was set for today, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the city medical examiner. 
 A curious feature of the consulate, a 50-foot-wide gray stone manse with bay windows that was built in 1894 by the Boston firm of Peabody & Stearns as a residence for the real estate investor John Emery, is that it is a mirror-image, back-to-back twin of a town house at 8 East 69th Street, built by the same firm in 1892 for Charles S. Colby, the railroad magnate who endowed Colby College in Waterville, Me. There is no known passage between the two structures.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 30 about the death of an Indonesian man whose body was found at the Indonesian Consulate in New York referred incorrectly to the original owner of an 1892 town house that is a back-to-back twin of the consulate. He was Charles L. Colby, not Charles S. And he was on the board of Colby College in Waterville, Me.; he did not endow it. The college's benefactor was Gardner Colby, his father.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The body of Bambang Wielianto, 35, was taken to the medical examiner.
 The Indonesian Consulate, an 1894 Beaux-Arts mansion off Fifth Avenue, was transformed into a crime scene yesterday. (Photographs by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SUICIDE (74%); CRIMINAL LAW (69%); TERRORISM (69%); RELIGION (60%); MURDER (58%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; Murders and Attempted Murders

PERSON: Robert D Mcfadden; Marc Santora; Bambang Wielianto

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDONESIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) Indonesia; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



633 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE PROTESTER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Antiwar Campaigner Speaks on Chavez Broadcast

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela joined Cindy Sheehan, the American antiwar activist, on Sunday to attack President Bush and promised to support her protest against the Iraq war.
 Mr. Chavez has become a voice for many opponents of the Bush administration's policies who are drawn to his self-styled socialist revolution and his close alliance with the Cuban leader, Fidel Castro. 
 ''Enough of imperialist aggression; we must tell the world: down with the U.S. empire,'' Mr. Chavez said as he hugged Ms. Sheehan, whose son died in the Iraq war, and the widow of the Puerto Rican independence advocate Filiberto Ojeda Rios, who was killed in a gunfight with the police last year.
 ''We have to bury imperialism this century,'' Mr. Chavez told her on his Sunday television broadcast. ''Cindy, we are with you in your fight.''
 American relations with Venezuela have become increasingly antagonistic as Mr. Chavez campaigns against Bush administration policies in South America and as Washington portrays him as an antidemocratic threat to regional stability.
 Ms. Sheehan was the latest American activist to appear on Mr. Chavez's Sunday program, where he discusses topics ranging from baseball and his life in the army to Venezuelan history and oil prices. Ms. Sheehan said she agreed with Harry Belafonte, the singer and activist, who recently called Mr. Bush ''the greatest terrorist in the world'' on Mr. Chavez's show.
 ''The war in Iraq will end, our troops will come home, Bush will be impeached and he will be brought to justice,'' said Ms. Sheehan, who held a vigil outside Mr. Bush's Texas ranch after her son was killed.
 Ms. Sheehan was in Caracas for the sixth World Social Forum, where nearly 60,000 people met to protest American foreign policy and debate ideas from land reform for the poor to fair trade and indigenous rights. The forum began in 2001 in Brazil as an alternative to the World Economic Forum, an annual gathering of world leaders in Davos, Switzerland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (66%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); FIDEL CASTRO (56%) George W (Pres) Bush; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Cindy Sheehan; Harry Belafonte

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%) Iraq; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



634 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; White House Letter; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Summing Up the Union, And in the Boss's Words

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush's State of the Union address was well into its 20th draft on Saturday morning when William McGurn, the director of White House speechwriting, sat down in his windowless West Wing bat cave -- his description -- to talk about last-minute ''cram-ins'' and the pressures of writing a speech that is supposed to help Mr. Bush pivot from a bad 2005 to a better 2006.
 ''It's never done until it's done,'' Mr. McGurn said wearily, with three days still to go before the address tomorrow. The president does not write his own speeches, but he does aggressively revise, day after day after day. ''He edits, re-edits, re-edits and re-edits,'' Mr. McGurn said.
The drafts are sent out for comment to senior staff members, who slip in pet programs on the chance that they will get a mention in the biggest speech of the year -- in Washington, the equivalent of a World Series home run. ''For a lot of people, this is their shot in the sun,'' Mr. McGurn said. The result, in his view, is oratory larded with what Mr. Bush calls ''cram-ins.'' 
 ''He'll say, 'Get it out, it doesn't follow,' '' Mr. McGurn said. The president, never known for his elocution, does have clear ideas of how a speech should sound -- no fat, no repetition, no meandering. ''He's not big on anecdote,'' Mr. McGurn said. ''He really wants to make it on an argument.''
 While they have had varying success, Mr. Bush's State of the Union addresses have been memorable for one reason or another: defining an ''axis of evil,'' preparing the nation for the Iraq war, opening a re-election campaign, calling for an overhaul of Social Security. This one is vital in another way. After the worst year of his presidency -- when his competency was called into question, his main domestic initiative failed and his foreign policy was challenged as never before -- Mr. Bush must reassert himself to drive forward his policy agenda and his party's prospects of hanging on to a slim majority on Capitol Hill.
 Finding the words to accomplish that task falls in large part to Mr. McGurn, who before coming to the White House wrote for the red-hot conservative editorial page at The Wall Street Journal. He still exudes some amazement at now being at the center of the action as a participant rather than an ideological goad, and is philosophical about taking on the responsibility at a low point of the Bush presidency.
 ''Being Irish, you don't necessarily come when you think your friends are -- when everyone's treating them well,'' Mr. McGurn said, in an hourlong interview in his second-floor office, which was tiny but not bat-cave dark, while the president was off on a Saturday bike ride. ''It's nice to feel you're coming when they're not getting treated well, and they need some help.''
 This year's State of the Union address is to focus on health care, illegal immigration and the nation's international economic competitiveness. Mr. Bush is also certain to defend the National Security Agency's secret eavesdropping program and his course in Iraq. But overall, Mr. McGurn said, the speech will be more thematic and less specific than the typical State of the Union address, with a shorter list of programs in a year when Congress will be focused on midterm elections, not on pushing divisive legislation.
 From the beginning, Mr. Bush's orders were that the speech be ''visionary'' -- the word he used on Dec. 18, immediately after he finished a nationally televised address from the Oval Office on Iraq. While technicians were still breaking down the lights and cameras, Mr. Bush summoned Dan Bartlett, the White House counselor, and Michael Gerson, a top policy adviser and the former chief speechwriter, to the patio abutting the Rose Garden, where he briskly ran through the specific elements he wanted in the address.
 From that meeting, Mr. Gerson, who still has a hand in Mr. Bush's major speeches, wrote an outline. Different sections of the address were assigned to various senior and junior speechwriters, and then the top trio -- Mr. Gerson, Mr. McGurn and John McConnell, a senior speechwriter for both Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney -- sat down to knit it all together in Mr. Gerson's office. 
 Drafts were sent to the president, who whipped out a black Sharpie marker. By early last week, the group was in run-throughs. Mr. Bush read aloud at his Oval Office desk with the speechwriters arrayed before him.
 If the president stumbled over a rough spot or did not like the sound of the language, out it went. ''He's very direct,'' Mr. McGurn said. ''I don't mean mean-direct. I've had editors who don't tell you exactly what's wrong, and it's kind of like going out to dinner with someone, and do you feel like Italian or Chinese? They don't give you any help. They just say no to everything. And he's not like that. He says, 'I don't want this, I want this.' And that gives you something. When you leave the room, you can go back and do it.''
 Mr. McGurn, 47, the son of a marine, was born at Camp Pendleton in California, but grew up in Northvale, N.J., where his father was an agent for the F.B.I. Mr. McGurn went to Notre Dame and Boston University, then worked his way up through conservative journalism: American Spectator, National Review, the Wall Street Journal editorial pages in Brussels, Hong Kong and New York. In 2004, Mr. McGurn worked briefly as a columnist for The New York Post and as a speechwriter for Rupert Murdoch before Mr. Gerson, a former reporter for U.S. News & World Report, brought him to the White House.
 ''It's not an easy transformation,'' Mr. McGurn said, speaking of the differences between editorial writing and speechwriting. ''I think a lot of non-speechwriters would find rhetoric difficult in the sense that there's more explanation. You use up more words. It's not as economical. When you're writing a story, you're trying to stuff in as many facts and bits of information in whatever amount of column inches that you have.''
 Mr. McGurn, who has adopted three Chinese girls with his wife, Julie, and lives in Arlington, Va., said he would go with Mr. Gerson and Mr. McConnell to the Capitol tomorrow night and watch the president deliver their work of the past two months. He went last year, too, when he was new in the job, and stood with the other speechwriters in a crammed space on the House floor. 
 ''It was clogged,'' he said. ''We kind of wormed our way in and around.'' Still, he said, ''it was very thrilling.'' This second time around, ''it's still a thrill,'' even though ''it's frightening because you don't know whether what you've done has captured his voice.''
 Mr. Bush, he said, may have a final rehearsal in the White House movie theater today, depending on how he feels. 
 ''He seems in a good mood,'' Mr. McGurn said. ''Part of his good mood, we hope, is that we give him something good to read that reflects what he wants to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: William McGurn, the director of White House speechwriting, is one of the authors of President Bush's State of the Union address. (Photographs by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); IRAQ WAR (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (61%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) United States Politics and Government; State of the Union Message (US); Speeches and Statements; Presidents and Presidency (US)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Elisabeth Bumiller; William McGurn; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



635 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: In Election, a Fight to Lead The G.O.P. in a Crucial Year

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
House Republicans will choose a leader to replace Tom DeLay this week in a private election that holds major significance for their party's public image as they head uneasily toward crucial midterm elections.
 Three lawmakers -- Roy Blunt of Missouri, John A. Boehner of Ohio and John Shadegg of Arizona -- are running for the majority leader post being vacated by Representative DeLay, the polarizing Texan who is credited with much of the party's Congressional success but who was pushed from leadership in part because of his ties to the lobbyist Jack Abramoff.
In light of the Abramoff scandal, a Republican House member's admission of bribery, and inquiries into the conduct of other lawmakers and former aides, an internal fight that would typically turn on legislative skills, fund-raising power and political savvy has centered on whether the contenders can help dispel an impression that Republicans are too cozy with special interests. 
 All three men are supporting various initiatives intended to limit the influence of lobbyists and promising other changes in the way the House does business. But the veteran lawmakers, particularly Mr. Blunt and Mr. Boehner, have faced questions about their own close connections to the capital's lobbying and fund-raising community. 
 Since Mr. DeLay announced on Jan. 7 that he would permanently give up the leadership post, the competitors have campaigned intensely for the job, reaching out to colleagues through hundreds of phone calls and meetings while bombarding them with policy statements and examples of favorable coverage in the news media. 
 The three men are little known to the public at large. But the winner of Thursday's secret ballot will become the new face for House Republicans. 
 With Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, the winner will be responsible for shaping the party's policies and strategies in a year that could pose the most serious threat to Republican control of the House since the Democratic majority was ousted in 1994. It will be the first time since the takeover that Mr. DeLay will be out of leadership. 
 ''I'm kind of excited,'' said Representative Christopher Shays, a moderate Republican from Connecticut. ''To have Tom DeLay leave? Whatever happens, it is going to be a better future.''
 As senior members of the House Republican ranks, the three candidates differ little on overarching party principles related to the economy, national security and social issues, though they disagree on details of some subjects like immigration. But the leadership race has been waged less on questions of legislative policy and more on their personal relationships and what each of them and their allies stress as their strong points.
 Mr. Blunt, 56, the majority whip who has been serving as interim majority leader since Mr. DeLay's indictment in Texas last fall on campaign-related money laundering charges, has portrayed himself as a seasoned member of the leadership team -- essentially the incumbent. ''This is no time for on-the-job training,'' Mr. Blunt said in an interview. 
 Mr. Boehner (pronounced BAY-ner), 56, the chairman of the Education and Workforce Committee and a member of the House leadership in the 1990's, is emphasizing his legislative capabilities, pointing to major education and pension bills he delivered with rare bipartisan support. ''I am the only one with broad legislative skills and experience,'' Mr. Boehner said.
 Mr. Shadegg (pronounced SHAD-egg), also 56, a conservative leader who surrendered his post as chairman of the internal party policy committee when he entered the race, is selling himself as the candidate who can bring the new vision that he said the party needed given the scandals and the drifting away from a commitment to hold spending in check.
 ''We need a clean break from the past,'' said Mr. Shadegg, who entered the race five days after his two competitors, giving them a substantial head start. ''We need someone who has no baggage going back to K Street or past practices.''
 Watchdog groups, Democrats and some Republicans have taken aim at Mr. Blunt and Mr. Boehner, asserting that they have built the type of networks coming under increasing scrutiny, with former aides who have become lobbyists seeking to persuade the lawmakers on policy matters while providing political and fund-raising support. Both men dismiss any suggestion of impropriety. 
 ''I think people downtown appreciate me because I do what I say I am going to do and am honest with them,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''There is just nothing in my relationship with them that is not aboveboard. Nothing. I have no reason to be ashamed of it.''
 Mr. Blunt has public pledges of support from more than 90 House members for an election that will take 117 votes to win. He has said that with private pledges he is already past that mark. He credits his lead to a close relationship with many members developed over years of helping with their campaigns and legislative needs. He said he believed he cemented their confidence by delivering tough victories on close votes last month. 
 ''Our members understand how difficult it is, day after day, to put together a coalition of Republicans -- and a few Democrats when you can find them -- to get to 218 votes,'' said Mr. Blunt, referring to the figure that constitutes a bare House majority.
 Mr. Shadegg said that under different circumstances, his lack of experience as a senior leader or committee chairman might be a legitimate issue. But he said the party needed an infusion of new thinking.
 ''I don't believe that either John Boehner or Roy Blunt are idea people,'' Mr. Shadegg said. ''I believe we ought to push our conference to come up with the kind of ideas that capture the attention of the American people.''
 While Mr. Blunt said he expected to win with a majority on the first ballot, his competitors hope to deny him that victory and are following a second-ballot strategy. Under that script, the No. 2 finisher would hope to pick up the supporters of the third candidate and perhaps some of the winner's backers to pull off an upset in the second round. And with the voting conducted in secret, the existing pledges are less than ironclad.
 Should Mr. Blunt win, it is likely that the chief deputy whip, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, would then be elected whip -- meaning the pair would have simply moved up one notch in the leadership. Some Republicans worry that such an outcome could signal to the public that Republicans did not see the need for significant change.
 ''The Republican Party is at a crossroads right now,'' said Representative Mark Souder of Indiana, who is backing Mr. Shadegg. ''And that crossroads is where we are going to have to reform ourselves before the voters do it this fall.''
 Others say that the departure of Mr. DeLay is transformation enough and that all three candidates are capable of leading the party at a critical time.
 ''No one can argue that Blunt or Boehner or Shadegg is not up to the job,'' said Representative Sherwood Boehlert of New York, who is uncommitted in the race. ''They have the skills to handle it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Representatives Roy Blunt, John A. Boehner and John Shadegg will face off on Thursday for House majority leader in a secret ballot. (Photo by Freddie Lee/Fox News Sunday, via Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (62%); INDICTMENTS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%) Election Issues; Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (92%); ROY BLUNT (90%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (59%) Tom (Rep) Delay; Roy (Repr) Blunt; John A (Repr) Boehner; John (Repr) Shadegg; Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006



636 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: MILITARY STRENGTH; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Official Says Foreign Forces Could Fall Below 100,000 This Year 

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS; David E. Sanger and Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The chairman of a high-level group planning the transfer of security responsibilities from American to Iraqi troops said the number of American and other foreign soldiers here would probably fall to below 100,000 by year's end and that an overwhelming majority could be out in two years.
 The statements by Mowaffak al-Rubaie, Iraq's national security adviser and the chairman of a joint Iraqi-American committee planning the transfer, give the strongest indication yet that the Bush administration is preparing to carry out significant reductions in American forces over the current year.
 There are now about 160,000 foreign troops in Iraq, about 140,000 of them American. The rest are from Britain, Italy, Poland and a number of other countries. 
 The planning for a troop withdrawal coincides with a classified assessment being conducted by the Bush administration of what the American presence in Iraq and Afghanistan should look like through the Bush presidency and beyond, envisioning a day when American forces and large-scale American aid are greatly diminished in the two countries. 
 In interviews, several State and Defense Department officials said the assessment by the Iraq and Afghanistan Joint Transition Planning Group was focused not on the timing of troop withdrawals but on the mechanics of making the switch from a large military presence to a more traditional relationship run by American Embassies, and how to do that while maintaining Washington's political leverage but at far less cost.
 Mr. Rubaie said that while there were plans for withdrawal, the timing of the reductions is contingent on conditions on the ground. ''I believe, according to this conditions-based agreement, that the multinational forces will be reduced,'' he said, to fewer than 100,000 by the end of the year, adding, ''By the end of 2007, the overwhelming majority of the multinational forces will have left the country.'' 
 American officials have said any withdrawal of forces would be contingent on whether there were enough Iraqi military units capable of taking over the fight against the guerrilla insurgency and maintaining order. Mr. Rubaie echoed that, speaking of a conditions-based agreement. But he also made clear that there were detailed plans, now complete, to begin that withdrawal. ''It's like an instruction book,'' he said.
 In addition to Mr. Rubaie, the committee comprises Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top American commander here, and Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador.
 Under American sponsorship, the Iraqis are engaged in a huge effort to train and equip hundreds of thousands of Iraqi soldiers and police officers to maintain order in the country and take over the fight against the insurgency.
 American soldiers are handing over authority to the Iraqis here at an increasing rate. According to American and Iraqi officials, the Iraqi military now controls more than half of Baghdad. In recent weeks, American and British leaders have handed over control to Iraqi units in eastern Diyala Province, and all or parts of the cities of Rawa, Falluja, Karbala, Kirkush, Numaniya, Kut, Najaf, Hilla and Amara.
 Most, though not all, of the transfers have taken place in predominantly Shiite areas, which are typically calmer than Sunni areas, where the insurgency is strongest.
 In the last week, the Americans announced that they were transferring military authority in three more areas. On Monday, for instance, they announced that they had handed over authority to an Iraqi battalion, about 800 soldiers, in a 58-square-mile area south of Mosul.
 The unit -- the First Battalion, Third Brigade, Second Army Division -- took control from the 172nd Stryker Brigade Combat Team, an American force. In an announcement, the American command said that the Iraqi battalion had conducted ''two dozen major, battalion-level missions'' before taking over, and that 13 of its soldiers had been killed.
 While Iraqi units have gone into battle alongside American units with growing frequency, some Iraqi units have begun conducting their own operations; most are relatively small.
 On Monday, the Marines announced that 1,000 Iraqi soldiers from the Third Brigade, First Iraqi Army Division, had staged what they called a counterinsurgency operation on Sunday in a neighborhood near Habbaniya, a Sunni town about 45 miles west of Baghdad that has often been the scene of clashes between American troops and insurgents. The Iraqi soldiers discovered an improvised explosive device and a small weapons cache during the operation, the Marines said.
 According to the Marines' statement, the Iraqi Third Brigade controls its own area within a region controlled by a Marine brigade. The Marines said the Iraqi unit had been conducting independent operations in the area since August.
 ''The morale of the Iraqi soldiers of this brigade is very high; the work that they are doing shows their ability to properly execute missions,'' the Iraqi unit's commander, Gen. Abdul Amir said in a statement included in the Marines' press release. ''The Iraqi Army is earning the trust of the Iraqi citizens by protecting them from the insurgents and their terrorist operations.''
 American and Iraqi officials say the Iraqi units perform at widely varying levels; some, particularly the predominantly Kurdish units, are regarded as quite capable, while others are not considered fit for front-line combat.
 In the interview, Mr. Rubaie said the plan drawn up by the committee laid out four necessary conditions that must be taken into consideration before an Iraqi unit can take over: the level of insurgent threat in the area; the size, readiness and preparation of Iraqi forces; the quality of the local government; and the ability of multinational forces to back up the Iraqi forces if they are overrun.
 Mr. Rubaie acknowledged that the American officials were growing sensitive to the growing discontent with the war in the United States. But he said they had assured him they would not pull their forces out until the Iraqi units were ready.
 ''There is a genuine desire on the part of the multinational forces to leave the country as soon as possible, but they have to be sure that the Iraqi security forces are up to standard,'' he said.
 The Bush administration's assessment of transitional issues focuses on the steps to be taken once Iraq is well along the road to political and economic stabilization -- a case that President Bush is expected to make in his State of the Union address on Tuesday night. Conducted under the direction of Lt. Gen. Claude M. Kicklighter, a retired three-star Army officer, it covers a wide range of projected American activities, including how to help build and sustain Afghan and Iraqi ministries that can effectively manage their new responsibilities -- something Washington tried and failed to do in Iraq immediately after the invasion three years ago.
 But it is not clear where the money will come from, with the administration signaling that it does not intend to seek new financing for Iraq reconstruction beyond the $20.9 billion that Congress has already approved. 
 ''I wish they'd done this how many years ago,'' said a former high-ranking military official who has met with the assessment team and was granted anonymity because of the discussions' confidential nature.
 Mr. Rubaie said he was encouraged by tentative signs that the insurgency has been weakening. The number of insurgent attacks against American and Iraqi forces and civilians has fluctuated in recent weeks, but the general trend line is down. In the first week of October last year, there were about 100 attacks a day, according to the American command in Baghdad. Last week, there were about 83 a day.
 Still, those numbers do not take into account sectarian violence, which has risen sharply in recent months. Many mixed Sunni-Shiite neighborhoods in and around Baghdad have been the scene of intense sectarian violence, with people expelled from their homes or killed.
 Mr. Rubaie acknowledged the rise in sectarian violence, and said the only answer to it was to strengthen the Iraqi police and army. One reason for that, he said, was that the American military had no desire to try to stop sectarian fighting.
 ''The Americans don't want to intervene,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An American soldier watched the area from an Iraqi police station as his unit linked up with the police for a patrol in Kirkuk, the northern oil-producing city where there have been frequent political and ethnic clashes. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Mowaffak Al- Rubaie; Dexter Filkins

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



637 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: A Wary Audience

 BODY:
When President Bush gives his State of the Union address tonight, expect to hear a renewed call for setting the administration's first-term tax cuts in concrete, combined with warnings that letting the cuts expire would retard economic growth. Nothing could be further from the truth.
 As proof of tax cuts' ability to spur the economy, Mr. Bush generally cites productivity growth, job creation and the rise in personal income. Productivity has indeed been stellar, and supply-siders claim that is because tax cuts have led to investment, which led to higher productivity. But business investment has been flat for five years. Meanwhile, the benefits of productivity growth have been concentrated among the wealthy. So tax cuts haven't unleashed investment, but they have contributed to inequality. 
Job growth during the Bush-era recovery has been worse, by far, than in any comparable economic upturn since the 1960's. It would take some 500,000 new jobs a month every month this year just to equal the second worst job-creation record in the modern era. And while working Americans are laboring harder, hourly wages and weekly salaries -- the financial lifeblood of most Americans -- have been flat or falling, after inflation, since the middle of 2003.
 That last inconvenient fact isn't likely to stop Mr. Bush from bragging about rising ''real after-tax income.'' Besides paychecks, that much-cited statistic includes things like bonuses, stock dividends and health insurance. 
 Dividends flow mainly to the top 5 percent of the income ladder, and health benefits, while valuable, are increasingly provided in lieu of salary. So the fact that personal income, writ large, is up ''by 7 percent since I've been your president,'' as Mr. Bush boasted recently, isn't a measure of what is in most Americans' pockets. (Besides, a 7 percent gain is hardly worth bragging about, since the average from other comparable recoveries is 12.5 percent.) 
 Mr. Bush bristles at the oft-repeated criticism that cutting taxes on dividends and capital gains mainly benefits the wealthy. That's odd, because the criticism is simply a statement of the obvious, given the facts: almost half of all dividends are earned by people making more than $200,000, and more than half of all capital gains are earned by people with incomes over $1 million. 
 Of late, the president has taken to saying that cutting taxes on dividends and capital gains helps ''workers in the automobile plant'' and the other millions of Americans who own stock through their 401(k) plans. But in truth, when taxes on dividends and capital gains are cut, investing in a 401(k) plan becomes less attractive. That's because tax-deferred buildup in a 401(k) is a big part of its allure, but the lower the tax rate, the less valuable the deferral. Investors in 401(k)'s also lose out when wages and salaries are taxed at higher rates than investments, as they are now and as Mr. Bush wants to ensure they remain. That's because money that's withdrawn from a 401(k) is taxed like salary, not like investments. 
 In his State of the Union speech, the president will also undoubtedly return to his promise to do something about the deficit, which he often vows to halve by 2009. His audience should remember that this claim assumes minimal spending going forward for Iraq and Afghanistan as well as a continuation of the voracious alternative minimum tax, which everyone in government knows must be reformed. This month Congress's budget agency forecast that if the tax cuts are made permanent and the alternative tax fixed, the United States will face large and growing deficits over the next decade, with red ink of between $3.5 trillion and $4 trillion over that time. 
 Tonight is Mr. Bush's night to speak. But it's the job of all of us to be critical listeners. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (71%); DIVIDENDS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%) Taxation; Editorials; United States Politics and Government; State of the Union Message (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



638 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: The Way Forward for Turkey

 BODY:
The judge in the free-speech trial of the Turkish author Orhan Pamuk dismissed all charges last week, sparing Turkey further international scorn. But the case was thrown out on a technicality. Turkey still needs to change the repressive law under which Mr. Pamuk was arrested and drop similar cases against dozens of other lesser-known Turks. 
 The most powerful motivation for making such changes has always been Turkey's desire to join the European Union. But public support for joining is now waning, down from a high of 85 percent to 65 percent recently. In part, that reflects a lingering bitterness over 11th-hour issues that tainted the start of Turkey's membership talks.
The European Union repeatedly stressed to Turkey the political need to reunify Cyprus, but then failed to deliver the support of Greek Cypriots, who voted against reunification after Turkish Cypriots had voted in favor. Austria tried to block the talks, France promised its citizens that they would ultimately have the chance to veto Turkey's membership, and prominent Germans nattered on about a ''privileged partnership'' for Turkey, rather than full membership. 
 Feeling slighted, a segment of the Turkish public is receptive to a vocal minority that is trying to build a nationalist wave against pro-European, reform-minded politicians. Bringing cases like the one against Mr. Pamuk is part of that strategy -- it's a sure way to provoke an international outcry at a time when some Turks are resentful of criticism. 
 Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, must convince his people not to give up on the reforms that precede union membership. And Washington and Brussels need to help him make the case. The United States should remind Turkey's generals, traditionally friendly with Washington, that continued support of liberalizing reforms will help usher Turkey into the 21st century. Washington and Brussels should also renew pressure on the Greek Cypriots for reunification and reward Turkish Cypriots, economically and politically, for their efforts.
 Such a Western initiative on Cyprus could take the sting out of a coming vote in the Turkish Parliament to expand Turkey's trade treaty with Europe to the union's 10 newest members, including Cyprus. The treaty is vital, but would be seen by some Turks as a de facto recognition of a divided Cyprus.
 Mr. Erdogan did not create that bind; indeed he made all the right moves to reunify the island. But nationalists in Turkey are already playing up the issue as an example of the government selling out Turkish interests to please Europe. Mr. Erdogan needs to push back, with a little help from his friends. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
''The Way Forward for Turkey,'' a Jan. 31 editorial on Turkey's challenges in joining the European Union, said that Greek Cypriots voted against reunifying Cyprus after Turkish Cypriots had voted in favor. Greek and Turkish Cypriots voted at the same time. The Greek Cypriots overwhelmingly rejected reunification, and the Turkish Cypriots overwhelmingly approved it.
''The Way Forward for Turkey,'' a Jan. 31 editorial on Turkey's challenges in joining the European Union, said that Greek Cypriots voted against reunifying Cyprus after Turkish Cypriots had voted in favor. Greek and Turkish Cypriots voted at the same time. The Greek Cypriots overwhelmingly rejected reunification, and the Turkish Cypriots overwhelmingly approved it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); VETO (78%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICS (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) Editorials; Freedom of Speech and Expression

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%) European Union

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (78%) Orhan Pamuk

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) TURKEY (97%); CYPRUS (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); GREECE (90%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (72%); AUSTRIA (57%) Turkey

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



639 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan, Seeking Aid, Promises Progress

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Afghanistan is expected to sign an agreement for an ambitious five-year plan for social, economic and political change with more than 60 donor countries at a two-day donors' conference in London that begins Tuesday. 
 Eager to secure an international commitment to Afghanistan's future, President Hamid Karzai and his government have sought long-term strategic and economic agreements with the United States and the European Union. The plan, called the Afghan Compact, pledges development and changes to turn the country into a functioning democracy and an economically viable state. It would replace the United Nations-sponsored Bonn accords, which laid out the first political goals for a post-Taliban Afghanistan.
 Anwar ul-Haq Ahadi, the country's finance minister, said in a telephone interview on Monday from London that he was seeking pledges of at least $10 billion at the conference. He said the government would need $4 billion a year for the next five years to help it carry out the plan. 
 Despite its achievements in the four years since the fall of the Taliban government -- adopting a new constitution and electing a president and a Parliament -- Afghanistan does not have a viable economy. Its government is largely reliant on foreign aid, and as it struggles with an insurgency that on occasion has reached the capital, Kabul, it is almost wholly dependent on foreign troops for security.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is expected to announce a new pledge from the United States as Afghanistan's major donor at the conference in London, which is being led jointly by Prime Minister Tony Blair and Mr. Karzai. 
 ''Afghanistan, because of the history of severe destruction of its institutions, its economy, its governance and laws, and everything else, requires more attention from the international community,'' said Ishaq Nadiri, a senior presidential economic adviser. 
 The country of 25 million people has some of the worst economic and health indicators in the world. Six million people rely on food aid, 80 percent of the people are illiterate and there is virtually no industry. Last year, the government raised only $300 million in revenues for a total budget of close to $5 billion. The rest -- to finance its army, police force, health services and rural development -- came from foreign aid. 
 Mr. Ahadi said Afghanistan needed at least five more years of international help before it could come close to financing its own budget. He said the compact would help make the use of foreign aid more efficient and would ensure that the Afghan government had a greater say in how the money was spent. 
 Afghanistan in turn has pledged to meet concrete benchmarks that will satisfy its international donors, in particular in areas of administrative improvements, equality for women, democratization and human rights, Mr. Ahadi said. 
 A draft copy of the compact, provided to The New York Times by an Afghan official indicates that the government will make a commitment to address corruption and the power that warlords retain over many areas of the country. 
 It calls for the government to create a mechanism for basing government and judicial appointments on merit, rather than tribal or regional power. The government would also, within two years, set up a national agency to register and adjudicate property issues, an effort to correct some of the worst excesses of land-grabbing and dispossession during decades of war and postwar chaos.
 Some of the commitments the Afghan government is expected to make will be intensely difficult politically, the American ambassador to Afghanistan, Ronald E. Neumann, said in a recent interview in Kabul. 
 ''I am certainly seeing them voluntarily take commitments to benchmarks and timelines in these areas which have been very tough,'' he said. ''Time will tell if they are willing to discharge them, but by taking on that commitment they are voluntarily putting themselves in a position where they will be under more pressure to perform.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: An Afghan man who sells coal waited for customers in Kabul. Afghanistan wants assurances of additional foreign help. In return, its leaders are setting detailed and lofty goals for development the money will finance. (Photo by Ahmad Masood/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALIBAN (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); WOMEN (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (71%); ARMED FORCES (64%); POLICE FORCES (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (61%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); GENDER EQUALITY (60%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (50%) Foreign Aid; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%) United Nations; Taliban (Afghan Group)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); TONY BLAIR (56%) Carlotta Gall; Hamid (Pres) Karzai

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



640 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: And in This Corner, Fed Choice Is Blip on Some Senators' Radar

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The important presidential nominee who is scheduled for a vote in the Senate on Tuesday is widely regarded as brilliant, has ties to Princeton University and, if confirmed as expected, will influence the lives of ordinary Americans for years to come.
 Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. for the Supreme Court?
No, this is the other important nominee -- Ben S. Bernanke for chairman of the Federal Reserve.
 Wall Street may be intensely interested in just about every word ever uttered by Mr. Bernanke, the former Princeton economist and chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers who is President Bush's choice to succeed Alan Greenspan. 
 But in Washington, he is barely on some people's radar screens. Indeed, here is what Senator George Allen of Virginia, who is considering a bid for the Republican presidential nomination in 2008, said when asked his opinion of the Bernanke nomination.
 ''For what?'' 
 Told that Mr. Bernanke was up for the Fed chairman's job, Mr. Allen hedged a little, said he had not been focused on it, and wondered aloud when the hearings would be. Told that the Senate Banking Committee hearings had concluded in November, the senator responded: ''You mean I missed them all? I paid no attention to them.''
 He was not the only one. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, regarded by some as a front-runner in 2008, also had no idea that the Bernanke hearings had come and gone.
 While lawmakers and the public have been focused on the nomination of Judge Alito, who is also scheduled for a vote on Tuesday, Mr. Bernanke has become a rarity in modern Washington: the noncontroversial nominee.
 True, monetary policy no longer ignites ideological passion the way it did in the days of double-digit inflation. Still, the job that Mr. Bernanke, 52, is ready to assume hardly lacks consequence. As Federal Reserve chairman, Mr. Bernanke, considered one of the nation's pre-eminent monetary economists, would arguably be the most powerful economic figure in the world, his every remark having the power to move markets. 
 Unlike Judge Alito, Mr. Bernanke would not be receiving a lifetime appointment; the term of a Fed chairman is just four years. But Mr. Bernanke is also being appointed to a 14-year term as a member of the Fed's board of governors, and under Fed rules would be eligible for reappointment as chairman for the life of that term. Mr. Greenspan, who served one partial term and one full term as a Fed governor, was chairman for 18 years.
 That is long enough to have an extraordinary impact, and Fed chairmen often do. Their decisions affect many aspects of American financial life, including such things as increases in Social Security payments and how much interest people pay to borrow against the equity in their homes or to finance the purchase of a new car. 
 Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama and chairman of the banking committee, said the Fed chairman was ''a lot more important, in the context of everyday life of the economy,'' than a member of the Supreme Court.
 Allan H. Meltzer, a professor of political economy and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University, who is writing a history of the Federal Reserve, felt similarly. ''Bernanke is certainly every bit as important as Alito,'' he said. 
 Professor Meltzer contended that the banking committee gave Mr. Bernanke ''a free ride'' during his confirmation hearing, which lasted only one day. During the session, Mr. Bernanke said continuity with the Greenspan era would be his top priority.
 ''I think they could have pushed Bernanke a little bit more on the questions of how he saw the job and what objectives he was going to pursue,'' Professor Meltzer said, including ''how he thought about the problems of reconciling full employment and low inflation -- did he think the Fed had other responsibilities. It seemed to me they really didn't lay many gloves on him.''
 Perhaps that is because relatively few people outside the world of finance seem to know who Mr. Bernanke is. There are no outside interest groups broadcasting television ads for and against him, no protests, no polls. His nomination received such scant attention that the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, which tracks how closely people follows news events, did not bother to monitor it.
 ''I think he has negative name recognition,'' said Andrew Kohut, the center's director. ''We didn't cover it, and I don't think anyone else did.''
 Economists are a bit mystified, though not entirely surprised. The Alito hearings were brimming with controversy, from the judge's membership in a Princeton University alumni group that fought against affirmative action to a 20-year-old memorandum in which he said that the Constitution did not provide a right to an abortion.
 The Bernanke hearings, by contrast, centered on the world of monetary policy, a field where most of the big ideological fights were settled long ago.
 ''Monetary policy has become much less political than it used to be years back and centuries back,'' said Alan S. Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman who is a professor of economics at Princeton, where he was a colleague of Mr. Bernanke's. ''There's a consensus on what monetary policy should be doing, which is to say keeping inflation low and, subject to that constraint, keeping employment high. So politicians take this attitude that it's for technocrats, and it doesn't matter too much whether the guy is a Republican or a Democrat.''
 Mr. Bernanke, for the record, is a Republican, though some of his close colleagues in academia said they did not know his political affiliation until he went to work for Mr. Bush. His nomination was announced last fall, days before Harriet E. Miers, the White House counsel, withdrew as a nominee to the Supreme Court amid accusations of political cronyism; picking Mr. Bernanke helped Mr. Bush fend off those charges.
 Even so, Mr. Bernanke's relationship with the president came up in his confirmation hearings, as Democrats pressed him on whether he would be independent of the White House.
 But it was a Republican, Senator Jim Bunning of Kentucky, a longtime critic of the Fed, who cast the lone vote in the committee against him, saying he did not regard Mr. Bernanke as independent enough from Mr. Greenspan. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who serves on both the Judiciary and Banking Committees and who led the charge against Judge Alito, came out strongly in favor of Mr. Bernanke. 
 ''They avoided the equivalent of Samuel Alito in a monetary sense,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''They didn't pick a strict monetarist. They didn't pick somebody who was tax cuts over everything else. They picked a mainstream guy, and if there was ever proof that Democrats would support the president's nominee, it was Bernanke.''
 So unlike Judge Alito, who is expected to be confirmed by a vote pretty much along party lines, Mr. Bernanke is likely to receive the overwhelming support of the Senate, even if some prominent members are not quite up to speed on his views.
 Mr. McCain -- who joked during a 2000 presidential debate that if Mr. Greenspan died, he would ''prop him up and put a pair of dark glasses on him,'' in a repeat of a prank in the movie ''Weekend at Bernie's'' -- said he did not know too much about Mr. Bernanke, but was comforted to know that Mr. Greenspan had a high opinion of him.
 ''It hasn't gotten a lot of attention,'' Senator McCain said, ''but I think he'll be carefully scrutinized in his hearings, and the view that other people have of him will carry a lot of weight in the financial world, particularly Greenspan.''
 Mr. McCain was asked if he would be surprised to learn that the hearings were over. He paused, his eyes widening, before giving the verbal equivalent of a knock on the forehead: ''You're right, you're right, you're right. Duuuuuh.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke preparing to testify before the Senate Banking Committee in November. Only one senator voted not to recommend him. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%) Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%) Federal Reserve System; Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); SAMUEL ALITO (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Ben S Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



641 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: AT EXXON MOBIL, A RECORD PROFIT BUT NO FANFARE

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO and EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Edmund L. Andrews reported from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Exxon Mobil, aided by strong energy prices, disclosed Monday that it had set a record for profits among American companies, reporting $36 billion in annual income. But while most companies would be proud to trumpet record profits, Exxon Mobil did everything it could to play down the news. 
 For Exxon Mobil, which also handily widened its lead over Wal-Mart as the company with the largest revenues in the nation, the report was an embarrassment of riches. Anxious about criticism of the results, executives began laying the groundwork months ago to try to prevent a political reaction against the company and the energy industry.
For example, Exxon Mobil paid for advertisements in leading newspapers arguing that profit margins in the industry lagged far behind those of other industries, like pharmaceuticals and banking.
 Still, growing oil profits are generating new scrutiny of the industry, with legislators and taxpayer groups expressing concern over Big Oil's good fortune, as soaring energy prices put increasing pressure on the pocketbooks of consumers. 
 ''If it's Google, no one asks about the profits because they're too busy buying the stock,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, associate director of the energy program at Rice University. ''Exxon is different. We have these emotional feelings related to gasoline because there's no readily available substitute.''
 Exxon Mobil's results on Monday, of course, caused jaws to drop; by some measures, the company became richer than some of the world's most pivotal oil-producing nations. Exxon Mobil reported a 27 percent surge in profit for the fourth quarter as elevated fuel prices gave rise to a full-year profit in 2005 of $36.13 billion on revenue of $371 billion. Exxon Mobil said its overall profit climbed more than 40 percent last year, while its tax bill rose only 14 percent.
 ''It's outrageous for big oil to be making these kinds of profits,'' said Representative Eliot L. Engel. Mr. Engel, a Democrat from New York, has sponsored legislation with a leading House Republican, Representative Jack Kingston of Georgia, to provide new incentives for alternative fuels and energy conservation technologies.
 ''We don't need any more tax breaks for the industry, any more sops to the industry that's making record profits,'' Mr. Engel said.
 Gasoline prices at the pump are rising again, with the average price of regular unleaded gasoline up nearly 7 percent from a month ago, to $2.34 a gallon, according to AAA, the automobile club. 
 In one measure of Exxon Mobil's wealth and influence, its revenue of $371 billion surpassed the $245 billion gross domestic product of Indonesia, an OPEC member and the world's fourth most populous country, with 242 million people. 
 The company's huge profit report came as no surprise to the White House or to lawmakers in either party, but it arrived just as Congress was preparing to resume a fight over imposing a one-time windfall profits tax on the major oil companies.
 Last fall, the Republican-controlled Senate passed a bill to extend about $60 billion worth of tax cuts over the next five years, but it also included a provision that would impose a one-year tax increase of $5 billion on the nation's largest oil companies. The measure is unlikely to survive. President Bush has already threatened to veto the tax bill if it includes the tax on oil companies, and House Republicans included no comparable measure in their own tax bill.
 Another measure approved in the Senate would effectively remove the foreign tax credit that the nation's three largest oil companies, Exxon Mobil, Chevron and ConocoPhillips, receive for taxes paid in other countries. Most energy analysts do not see the measures winning approval in the House, but Exxon Mobil executives remain concerned.
 ''We take these issues very seriously,'' said Mark Boudreaux, a company spokesman. ''We realized that we needed to do a better job of explaining how the industry works.'' 
 To help make its case, the company organized slide shows for groups of journalists ahead of the report, explaining that its operations accounted for only 3 percent of global oil production.
 Republican lawmakers were on the defensive on Monday. Not only are they under heavy pressure from party leaders and from the White House to kill the proposed tax on oil companies, but they also inserted more than $2 billion in additional tax breaks for oil and gas companies in the energy bill that Congress passed last November.
 A spokesman for the House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, said the oil companies had to explain themselves better and to offer more information on their plans to lower fuel prices by expanding their refining capacity in the United States.
 ''The message from the speaker is that oil companies need to do more work to bring oil and gas prices down,'' said Ron Bonjean, a spokesman for Mr. Hastert, who is scheduled to meet on Tuesday with the president of the American Petroleum Institute.
 ''Companies make profits, and that's O.K.,'' Mr. Bonjean said. ''But when you're dealing with a family's bottom line, we'd like to see some kind of plan to address rising costs.''
 Executives at Exxon Mobil, which is based in Irving, Tex., have been trying in recent weeks to reposition the public discussion of the company's profit by comparing the industry's results to those of other industries.
 For instance, pharmaceutical companies earned 18.6 cents for each dollar of sales in the third quarter of 2005, and banks 18 cents, compared with 8.2 cents at oil and natural gas companies, said Mr. Boudreaux, the Exxon Mobil spokesman. 
 Still, the company's profits stand out by almost every measure. Exxon Mobil's profit last year of $36.1 billion easily surpassed the earlier record of $25.3 billion, which Exxon Mobil had set in 2004, according to Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard & Poor's in New York. Among industrial companies, only the Ford Motor Company's profit of $22 billion in 1998 comes close to Exxon Mobil's success in recent memory, Mr. Silverblatt said. Wal-Mart, in the year that ended Jan. 31, 2005, had net income of about $10.3 billion on sales of $285 billion.
 Exxon Mobil's profit climbed last year thanks largely to higher prices for oil and natural gas, but also for other reasons, including higher margins at its refineries, the start of oil production at a project on Sakhalin Island in Russia's Far East and a gain from the sale of a stake in Sinopec, an energy concern controlled by China's government.
 Exxon Mobil shares surged to $63.11, up $1.82, or 2.97 percent. However, even as investors applauded Exxon Mobil's new chief executive, Rex W. Tillerson, who succeeded Lee R. Raymond at the start of this year, Exxon Mobil's results masked potentially weaker profits if oil and gas prices begin to decline. 
 Production on an oil-equivalent basis at Exxon Mobil's oil fields around the world declined 1 percent in 2005, excluding stoppages at platforms in the Gulf of Mexico from last year's hurricanes. This illustrates an industrywide problem: an inability to tap into the world's richest oil exploration areas in the Middle East and Venezuela because of political barriers.
 ''Lack of access to new reserves is the most important problem Exxon and the other large oil companies are facing,'' said Michael J. Economides, an influential professor of chemical engineering at the University of Houston. ''It should make them paranoid about the future.'' 
 Political uncertainties in oil-rich nations, however, also worked in Exxon Mobil's favor in recent months, as concern over Iran's nuclear ambitions and tension in Nigeria and Venezuela kept oil prices high.
 Crude oil prices have doubled in the last two years, driven largely by strong demand in the rising economies of Asia and in the United States, which alone consumes about a quarter of the world's oil production.
 Oil for March delivery rose Monday to $68.35 a barrel, up 59 cents, in New York trading. 
 Part of the reason for Exxon Mobil's quarterly gains was that oil and natural gas prices were driven higher by Hurricanes Rita and Katrina; profit climbed to $10.7 billion in the quarter from $8.42 billion.
 Revenue in the quarter reached $99.7 billion, an increase of 20 percent. 
 Some Democratic lawmakers pounced on the Exxon Mobil profit report to attack Republicans' recent willingness to give the industry additional tax incentives at a time of record profits. 
 ''A real bill should concentrate on alternative fuels, corn and ethanol and hybrid cars and all these new technologies,'' said Mr. Engel, the Democratic congressman from New York.

 The energy industry's earnings have grown faster than the overall market consistently over the last two years.

QUARTERLY EARNINGS Year-over-year change*

Graph tracks quarterly earnings for energy companies since 2004.

. . . Led by Exxon Mobil
The biggest one-year corporate profits.

NET INCOME -- In billions of dollars, not adjusted for inflation

Exxon Mobil -- 2005: $36.13
Exxon Mobil -- 2004: 25.33
Citigroup -- 2005: 24.64
Ford Motor -- 1998: 22.07
Exxon Mobil -- 2003: 20.96
Citigroup -- 2003: 17.85
Citigroup -- 2004: 17.05
Bank of America -- 2005: 16.89
General Electric -- 2004: 16.59
Exxon Mobil -- 2000: 15.99

*Fourth-quarter 2005 data is through Jan. 27

(Sources by Thomson Financial; Standard & Poor's)(pg. C6)

Chart
2005 REVENUE

Exxon Mobil: $371 billion
Wal-Mart: $285

2005 G.D.P. At official exchange rate

Saudi Arabia: $281
Indonesia: $245

(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; C.I.A.)(pg. A1)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Higher margins at Exxon Mobil refineries, like the one in Joliet, Ill., contributed to 2005's profit. (Photo by Scott Saltzman/Bloomberg News)(pg. C6)Chart: ''A Profitable Industry . . .''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (86%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Profits (Industry-wide); Company Reports; Taxation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Advertising and Marketing; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (94%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: RICE UNIVERSITY (55%) Exxon Mobil Corp

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT L ENGEL (74%); JACK KINGSTON (54%) Simon Romero; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



642 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Try to Tie Upstate Congressman to Washington G.O.P. Scandals

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
New York Democrats, hoping to oust an influential Republican congressman from upstate New York, are questioning his ties to lobbyists in the wake of the lobbying corruption scandal hanging over Capitol Hill.
 The Democrats are seizing on reports that the congressman, John E. Sweeney of the Albany area, recently organized a $2,000-a-person ''Skiing with Sweeney'' weekend getaway attended by lobbyists at a ski resort in Park City, Utah, as well as a dinner at the home of Jeffrey Kimbell, a pharmaceutical industry lobbyist.
The Democrats who have attacked Mr. Sweeney in newspaper interviews, news releases and a satirical Internet advertisement are arguing that his actions reflect a larger culture of corruption that has enveloped Washington under Republican rule. The attacks notwithstanding, he has not been implicated in any troubles that have touched other Republicans. 
 ''A scandal is brewing in Washington, D.C.,'' the narrator in the Internet ad declares. ''So it is worth asking: What is our congressman doing to fix this mess? He's going skiing. In Utah. With lobbyists.''
 The attacks, which have escalated in recent days, have provoked the Sweeney camp into striking back, suggesting that the congressman and his advisers are slightly unsettled. Specifically, the Sweeney camp has taken aim at Kirsten Gillibrand, a Democrat who is seeking to unseat him and whose campaign has helped orchestrate many of the attacks.
 Melissa Carlson, a Sweeney spokeswoman, suggested hypocrisy on Ms. Gillibrand's part, pointing out that she is the daughter of Douglas Rutnik, an Albany lobbyist who is close to Gov. George E. Pataki.
 Ms. Carlson also defended the trip to Utah, noting that Mr. Kimbell, the pharmaceutical lobbyist, represents two companies that employ more than 2,000 people in the congressman's district and that Mr. Sweeney was discussing economic development efforts with him.
 Ms. Carlson also noted that Mr. Sweeney had used his influence and seniority in Congress to secure aid for his district and for the rest of the state, and that he played a crucial role in fighting for $20 billion in reconstruction aid for New York City after the 9/11 attack.
 ''We don't have to attack her,'' Ms. Carlson said of Ms. Gillibrand. ''My boss has a record of achievement to run on.''
 The attacks on Mr. Sweeney come as New York Democrats say they plan to use the fallout over the lobbying scandal in Washington as an issue to mount vigorous challenges against Mr. Sweeney and other Republicans they consider too close to Republican leaders on the Hill.
 Interestingly, Mr. Sweeney has taken part in an effort to force new elections on Capitol Hill to replace most of the Republican leaders in the aftermath of the lobbying scandal.
 In calling for House elections, Mr. Sweeney and his allies believe that leadership changes in the House should go beyond Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, who recently abandoned his effort to remain majority leader amid pressure from Republican colleagues jittery about an election-year lobbying scandal.
 Mr. DeLay, who had temporarily stepped aside after being indicted on state charges in Texas, made his decision after the lobbyist Jack Abramoff, a former DeLay ally, pleaded guilty to corruption charges in a case that could also involve other former senior DeLay aides.
 In a letter being circulated to Republican House members, Mr. Sweeney and a colleague, Representative Dan Lundgren of California, argued that Republicans ''must seize this opportunity to regain the trust the American public placed in us.''
 But Democrats say that Mr. Sweeney's fund-raising event in Utah suggests that he is not genuinely committed to reform.
 In an interview, Ms. Gillibrand accused Mr. Sweeney of being ''part of the problem in Washington.''
 ''My concern is that he is on a junket with representatives of the pharmaceutical industry listening to their concerns when he should be back in the district listening to our concerns,'' she said. But even Democrats agree that Ms. Gillibrand has an uphill battle in the heavily Republican district.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Sweeney

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SKIING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ETHICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); RESORTS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); SKIING FACILITIES (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); TERRORISM (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%) Lobbying and Lobbyists; Election Issues; Ethics

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (89%) Raymond Hernandez; John E (Rep) Sweeney; Kirsten Gillibrand

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



643 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Saving in 2005 Worst Since 1933

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Americans' personal savings rate dipped into negative territory in 2005 for the first time since the Great Depression as consumers depleted their savings to buy cars and other big-ticket items. 
 The Commerce Department reported Monday that the savings rate for last year was minus 0.5 percent, meaning Americans not only spent all their after-tax income but dipped into savings or borrowed more.
 The savings rate has been negative for a full year only twice before -- in 1932 and 1933 -- when the country was struggling to cope with the Great Depression, a time of massive business failures and layoffs. 
 The Commerce report said consumer spending for December rose 0.9 percent, while incomes increased 0.4 percent. 
 A price gauge that excludes food and energy rose 0.1 percent in December, down from a 0.2 percent rise in November. This inflation index linked to consumer spending is closely watched by officials at the Federal Reserve. 
 The central bank will meet Tuesday and it is expected to increase interest rates a 14th consecutive time. 
 Many economists think those rate increases are drawing to a close, however, with perhaps another quarter-point increase at the March 28 meeting, because the central bank is starting to see the impact of the previous rate increases in a slowing economy. 
 For December, the savings rate fell to 0.7 percent, the largest one-month decline since a 3.4 percent drop in August. 
 The savings rate for 2004 was 1.8 percent.
 December income increase was in line with Wall Street expectations. Income increased 0.4 percent in November and 0.6 percent in October. 
 The December 0.9 percent rise in spending was slightly above the expectation for a 0.8 percent increase and almost double the 0.5 percent increase in November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); SAVINGS RATES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INFLATION (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%) United States Economy; Savings; Great Depression (1930's); Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Income

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



644 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: No Room for the Passengers, Never Mind the Carry-Ons

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey

 BODY:
WHAT do business travelers say is the most annoying thing about flying? I realize there are hundreds of plausible answers. But the top peeve, according to a survey by Carlson Wagonlit Travel, is a passenger who lumbers on board with a bulky suitcase that you, of course, would have had the courtesy to check. 
 The annoyance is aggravated when that person decides to stow the bag in an overhead bin well forward of his or her seat to allow for a quick getaway, unmindful that overhead space is supposed to be used by the passengers sitting closest to it. 
Now, as far as the loutish behavior goes, this is not up there with, say, blowing cigar smoke in a child's face. But the irritation quotient has been going up sharply over carry-on storage space, partly because, on domestic flights, airlines have increasingly been cramming customers into regional jets -- those little planes with storage bins the size of a Volkswagen glove compartment.
 Regional jets, which typically have 50 or fewer seats, now carry about 20 percent of all domestic passengers.
 "I think the added frustration over baggage is often compounded by the smaller jets," said Jack O'Neill, the chief operating officer of Carlson Wagonlit Travel North America.
 Carlson Wagonlit surveyed 2,100 business travelers and 650 corporate travel managers in the United States and abroad. It also found that 60 percent of travel managers expect their budgets to increase this year and that business travelers are overwhelmingly opposed to relaxing bans on the use of cellphones on planes. 
 But let's get back to meager in-flight storage space and lack of seating comfort, which are the most frustrating aspects of regional jet travel. The airlines know that most of you dislike these planes, by the way. 
 But domestic airlines generally do not have much money to acquire a new fleet. Meanwhile, they have been shifting larger planes from domestic routes to more lucrative international routes. So, domestic seat capacity has been shrinking. 
 Domestic fleets have about 1,500 regional jets in the 50-seat or smaller category, but industry analysts say the airlines have soured on the planes, which are not especially fuel-efficient. Michael Boyd, the president of the Boyd Group aviation forecasting company, predicts that domestic airlines will retire about 200 regional jets within 18 months.
 But a new breed of regional jet -- with far more spacious cabins that hold 70 to 100 passengers -- is entering service, in models manufactured by the two major regional jet makers, Embraer and Bombardier. 
 JetBlue Airways, for example, has ordered 100 of the new 100-seat Embraer E-190 jets. And last Thursday at Westchester County Airport in White Plains, United Airlines, which is scheduled to leave bankruptcy protection tomorrow, showed off one of the new, roomy 70-seat E-170 jets that it has begun using to replace smaller regional jets on its flights from White Plains, a big corporate center, to its hub in Chicago.
 The new planes -- operated under still another new United brand, Explus -- have six first-class seats with 38 inches of legroom, 16 economy plus seats with 34 inches and 48 economy seats with 31 inches. One reason for providing premium-class seating is that many business travelers flying out of White Plains on first-class or business-class tickets, with national or international connections through Chicago, resent having to spend the first leg of the trip in a ''one class fits all'' regional jet. United's main competitor on the route is the American Eagle, a subsidiary of American Airlines, which flies small regional jets with all-coach seating.
 ''If we did this with one class, we could have 78 seats on the airplane,'' said Sean Donohue, vice president for operational services at United Express, the carrier's regional jet unit. ''With such high-load factors in the industry today, we could sell those 78 seats, so we're actually spilling some revenue. But we're reinvesting in the business customer.''
 United does not own the new planes. The E-170's are actually the property of Republic Airways Holdings, which operates more than 800 regional jet flights a day under contract to four major airlines, including United.
 Of the 240 regional jets in Republic's fleet, 47 are E-170's and the rest are smaller, traditional regional jets. The only regional jets Republic now has on order are E-170's.
 United Airlines, which has been a tough negotiator with its regional jet suppliers in the past, made the decision on how to configure the new E-170's, said Warren R. Wilkinson, a Republic spokesman. 
 ''United told us, 'This is what we want the airplanes to look like,' '' Mr. Wilkinson said. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (85%); AIRPORTS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); SMOKING (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Luggage; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (94%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (83%); EMBRAER SA (62%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); BOMBARDIER INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Carlson Wagonlit Travel

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (83%); ERJ (NYSE) (62%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (62%); BBD.A (TSX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (94%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (62%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (62%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



645 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Investors Lie Low Awaiting Next Move From the Fed

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks finished a lackluster session narrowly mixed yesterday as investors made few moves ahead of the Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates. Record earnings from Exxon Mobil and evidence of strong consumer spending gave the market little momentum. 
 Investors welcomed the Commerce Department's latest report on consumer spending, which rose 0.9 percent in December. Though personal incomes rose just 0.4 percent, the strong consumer spending indicated continued confidence in the economy despite high energy prices. 
 Yet the report also showed prices remaining in check -- good news for investors concerned about inflation. Despite that, many investors held their bets before today's Fed meeting. The Fed is expected to raise interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.5 percent, but Wall Street expects a signal that the central bank will stop raising rates after that. 
 ''It's really a question of the economy and what the Fed's going to do, and that's not something you're going to see a big move on in a single day,'' said Bill Groenveld, head trader for vFinance Investments. ''Nothing's giving us those big knee-jerk reactions, so you're seeing things kind of wishy-washy today.'' 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 7.29 points, or 0.07 percent, to 10,899.92. 
 Broader stock indicators were modestly higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 1.48 points, or 0.12 percent, to 1,285.20, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 2.55 points, or 0.11 percent, to 2,306.78. 
 Oil prices rose modestly even after a top Saudi Arabian official said his country had no intention of cutting production, and that prices were too high. OPEC meets in Vienna today. A barrel of light crude oil settled at $68.35, up 59 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 ''Certainly, part of the market's worries right now stem from oil,'' said Stuart Freeman, chief equity strategist for A. G. Edwards & Sons. ''You still have instability in the Middle East and there's a fear that prices will move dramatically higher.'' 
 And while higher oil prices failed to dramatically harm economic growth last year, there is a concern that more price increases could either slow the economy or spark inflation, which makes today's Fed decision all the more important. 
 High oil prices remained good news for Exxon Mobil, which set a record for quarterly profit by a United States company with $10.71 billion. The company benefited from high oil prices and strong demand, and beat Wall Street's forecasts by 19 cents a share. Exxon Mobil climbed $1.82, to $63.11. 
 Eastman Kodak lost 62 cents, to $25.75, after reporting its fifth consecutive quarterly loss, though the company nonetheless beat Wall Street's loss forecasts. The company, which is undergoing a difficult transition to digital photography, said sales of its digital products rose 45 percent in the quarter. 
 Fourth-quarter profit at the toy maker Mattel slipped 2 percent because of slow sales of its Barbie and Hot Wheels products. The company exceeded analysts' profit estimates, though revenues fell short. Mattel, which announced another $250 million for its stock buyback program, rose $1.02, to $15.80. 
 The dollar was mixed against other currencies. Gold prices also moved higher. 
 Bonds moved lower, with the price of the 10-year Treasury note falling 4/32, to 99 25/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.53 percent, from 4.51 percent Friday. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

These are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month bills:
 (000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.894	97.757	High Rate	 4.375	 4.435	Investment Rate	 4.485	 4.600	Low Rate	 4.330	 4.380	Median Rate	 4.350	 4.405	Total applied for	$45,382,946	$39,787,195	Accepted	$27,946,846	$23,764,800	Noncompetitive	$2,202,684	$1,605,158	

Both issues are dated Feb. 02, 2006. The three-month bills mature on May 04, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on Aug. 03, 2006.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills
 in percent at weekly auction from October to December. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (63%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (68%) SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



646 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: No One Said It Wouldn't Be Weird 

BYLINE: By FRANCINE PARNES

 BODY:
The business-travel world is full of superlatives these days. Airbus is delivering the world's biggest passenger jet, the A380; Boeing recently announced record 2005 sales and, for good measure, completed the world's longest nonstop flight, a 23-hour voyage eastward from Hong Kong to London. Atlanta's airport just wrested the title of world's busiest airport from O'Hare in Chicago, and hotels are at the highest occupancy in years, with prices to match.
 But who needs industry statistics about airplane orders and hotel occupancy rates when the beleaguered business people who are sitting in the planes and sleeping in the hotels are testing another kind of boundary: the limits of humiliation, weirdness, fear and revulsion? Wouldn't you rather hear their stories? Here are some of them.

TIGHTEST SPOT -- Bobbie Wyatt's husband packed the bags and checked out of their Manhattan hotel before she did, leaving her with only her top. ''I had nothing to wear from the waist down,'' said Ms. Wyatt, a public relations professional from Greenville, S.C. There were no housekeepers in the hallway to lend her a uniform, and she was too embarrassed to call the concierge and say she had no pants. 
''As I sank down on the bed, my arm brushed against the fabric of an airline blanket,'' she said. A light bulb went off. With the sewing kit from the bathroom, she rigged up a wrap skirt and headed outside for the nearest clothing store. ''I glanced up to see a half-naked cowboy playing a guitar,'' she recalled. ''I just relaxed, realizing I fit right in.'' To reward herself for her ingenuity, Ms. Wyatt emerged from the shop with three outfits. 

WACKIEST MOMENT -- The flight out of Chicago had been delayed, there were no agents in sight and the passengers at the departure gate were restless. The phone at the desk rang, and a self-styled comedian answered it, identifying himself as Joe Customer.
 ''Then the other phone on the wall rings, so he answers that one, saying, 'Hello, Joe Customer here,' '' recalled John G. Miller, a motivational speaker from Denver, who witnessed the incident. ''He quickly goes back to the first phone. Then, 'Hold on, please. I think I have your party on the other line.'
 ''To everyone's amazement in the gate area, he reverses the handsets and puts them together, so the two phones are touching, one right side up and one upside down.'' 
 The tension-breaker put the crowd in stitches until ''some tall woman dressed in her executive-boardroom airlines uniform that has never been wrinkled comes stomping down into the gate area,'' he said, and demanded to know who answered the phones. 
 Joe meekly raised his hand. After being scolded, he apologized to his fellow passengers. He was rewarded with loud applause.

MOST REVOLTING MEAL -- At a business dinner in Beijing, the guests were expected to sample an assortment of duck parts served on a lazy susan, including livers, gizzards and legs. Unable to force himself to eat the feet, Neil Gussman, a magazine editor in Philadelphia, helped himself instead to seconds of fried scorpions. ''I am not prone to nightmares,'' he said, ''but that night I woke up at 3 a.m. in a cold sweat after dreaming those scorpions had reassembled themselves to kill me and were walking up my throat.''

MOST INFURIATING FELLOW PASSENGERS -- Forget packed lunches that smell like rotting fish. Richard Laermer, who runs a public relations firm in Manhattan, had to cope with fellow passengers who seized his sickbed.
 Mr. Laermer had fallen violently ill on a flight from New York to Miami, and his seatmate had moved so he could lie down on three seats across. On one of his runs to the restroom, two women appropriated two of the seats, dumping his belongings onto the floor. He told a flight attendant that if they didn't move, the plane would have to make an emergency landing. ''It was a hero's moment,'' he said, ''but worth it.'' The bluff worked.

MOST WELCOME CURSE -- On a trans-Atlantic flight, Eric Yaverbaum, the president of Jericho Communications in Manhattan, opened the overhead bin and released somebody's bottle of Jack Daniels, which crashed onto a passenger. Seeing the man knocked out and lying in the aisle, streaked in blood, Mr. Yaverbaum shuddered. If this guy is an American, he thought, he will probably sue. A doctor was summoned. The man came to. Mr. Yaverbaum apologized. The victim received six stitches. Then he began to yell -- in French. ''I had no idea what he was saying until he started cursing in English,'' he said.

MOST UNWELCOME SURPRISE -- After being picked up at the airport in Damascus, John Denson, an international lawyer in Houston, felt something hard near his feet. It was an Uzi. He asked the driver if it was his, ''and he replied that he had his own, and that one was mine, 'just in case we need it,' '' Mr. Denson said. ''It is amazing how little room a Mercedes has in the back seat when you're trying to avoid touching a loaded Uzi.''

MOST ANNOYING INSECTS -- As David Greene, a London lawyer, was riding through a swamp in Uganda, several tsetse flies bit him and his driver. They closed the windows and Mr. Greene seized a newspaper to kill the insects that remained. One had landed on the driver, and he smacked it with such force that the car went into a spin and landed in a bog. As Mr. Greene pushed the vehicle out, he was bitten several more times. He had learned, he said, a hard lesson: When in tropical Africa, ''keep windows shut, however hot.''

WILDEST RACE WITH A RHINO -- Then there was the time a rhinoceros charged the taxi in which Mr. Greene was riding through a game park in Kenya. ''It became a race between us and the rhino,'' he said. Finally, the car pulled ahead, and Mr. Greene treated the driver to a meal at a local restaurant, the Carnivore.

WILDEST RACE WITH A BUS -- Mr. Gussman, the magazine editor, likes to bike on his frequent trips abroad and always wears stars-and-stripes spandex jerseys. On one excursion in Hong Kong, he elicited sneers from the driver of an overcrowded bus, who in frustration at not being able to keep pace with him, tried scaring him off the road.
 ''He didn't like getting beaten by a bicyclist,'' Mr. Gussman said. ''Each time at the light, he was glaring. By the third light, he was screaming up very close behind me.'' Fearing for his life, Mr. Gussman turned aside and let the bus pass, on the assumption, he said, ''that an overloaded bus wouldn't stop any better than it would start.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bobbie Wyatt with the skirt she made from a blanket after her husband packed her clothing by mistake and checked out. New Yorkers didn't even notice, she said. Imagine that. (Photo by Chris Keane for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (76%); HOTEL STAFF (76%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (73%); FABRICS (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); STATISTICS (70%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%); BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: Francine Parnes

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



647 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Dockworkers' Union Calls For Cleaner Air at Seaports

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, Calif., Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The effort to reduce smog stemming from seaports, among the biggest polluters in the nation, gained an ally on Monday when the union representing thousands of West Coast dockworkers promised to help significantly reduce toxic emissions.
 The union, the International Longshore and Warehouse Union, representing 60,000 dockworkers from San Diego to Seattle, called for a one-fifth reduction in emissions by 2010 and said it would push carriers to adopt less-polluting technology on their ships.
The announcement, at a conference here of state and local officials examining the problem, reflected a growing concern that the sharp increase in shipping on the West Coast, fueled by the boom in Asian imports in the past decade, has come at a heavy cost. 
 About 40 percent of the nation's cargo passes through ports here and in Los Angeles next door, which combined are the busiest in the country. Several recent studies have linked port pollution -- chiefly from diesel fumes given off by the ships and the trucks and trains carrying goods to and from them -- with smog, cancer, asthma and other health problems in nearby communities.
 While the Los Angeles region's air has become cleaner in the past three decades, air quality regulators have identified the ports as the biggest contributors of particulate matter, a major ingredient in smog.
 ''The thousands of men and women I represent and work for raise their families under the cloud of port pollution,'' said Jim Spinosa, president of the union, which, he added, will reach out to locals across the country for support. ''They have made a simple demand of their union. While they want to earn a good living, they do not want to pay with their lives for a stronger economy.''
 Mr. Spinosa said the union would work with carriers and port authorities to meet its goal, but he did not rule out making it part of negotiations during the next contract talks, in 2008. In 2002, employers locked out dockworkers for 10 days during bitter contract negotiations, costing the American economy billions of dollars in lost trade.
 Concerns about pollution have been raised around ports in the San Francisco Bay Area and in Seattle, which have also benefited from growing imports of Far East goods, mostly electronics and clothing. In a 2004 report, the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Clean Air Coalition called seaports ''the largest and most poorly regulated sources of urban pollution in the country.''
 Environmentalists have accused port officials of being slow to respond to the problem out of fear that stringent pollution control measures would encourage carriers to take their business to other ports. 
 Melissa Lin Perrella, a lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, which has successfully sued Los Angeles to put in some pollution control measures, cheered the union's move as critical to bringing public pressure to bear and developing a unified attack on the problem.
 ''It is huge,'' she said. ''It really shows that green isn't just good for our health but also good for business. Union workers on the front lines breathe in toxic fumes and often live in the community around the ports.''
 Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles vowed to use the city's Board of Harbor Commissioners, which oversees the port, to speed up environmental efforts, though he remained committed to increasing business, too. He called for expanded use of measures like cleaner fuels for dockside tractors and ''cold ironing,'' in which docked ships plug into city power instead of idling their engines for electricity.
 ''We are a bellwether city, a bellwether region, and we are going to show people we are going to grow this port but grow it greener,'' Mr. Villaraigosa said.
 Jim McKenna, the president and chief executive of the Pacific Maritime Association, which represents carriers and terminal companies, said the group had been talking with port and government officials for the past year about plans to reduce emissions.
 Though he declined to embrace the union's goal -- ''I can't tell you if that's a good number or a bad number'' -- he said his group recognized the pollution concerns, as well as ports' fears of slowing down growth. His group has traditionally scoffed at measures pushed by environmentalists like fees on containers coming off ships to pay for pollution control.
 ''Reducing emissions and expanding the ports' capacity are connected, and both are a priority of our industries,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, at lectern, vowed yesterday to work to reduce pollution at seaports. The Port of Los Angeles, above. (Photographs by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOG (92%); HARBORS & PORTS (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); DIESEL FUEL (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%) Air Pollution; Smog; Ports; Ships and Shipping; Railroads; Air Pollution; Trucks and Trucking; Diesel Power

ORGANIZATION: International Longshore and Warehouse Union

PERSON: Randal C Archibold; Antonio (Councilman) Villaraigosa

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) California; Los Angeles (Calif) ; Long Beach (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



648 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Pension Agency Hires Deutsche Bank to Sell 10% of UAL 

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation confirmed yesterday that it had hired Deutsche Bank to sell a 10 percent stake in the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, hoping to collect more than $500 million. 
 The federal agency is trying to take advantage of a higher-than-expected price on UAL shares ahead of the airline's anticipated exit from bankruptcy on Wednesday. The agency took over United's pension plans last year with a funding shortfall of about $10 billion.
UAL's new stock -- its old shares are being canceled as part of the bankruptcy -- was trading Monday on a when-issued basis at about $43 a share, nearly triple the price expected when UAL put together its plan to exit bankruptcy late last year. With 125 million shares to be issued, that implies a market capitalization for UAL of about $5.4 billion.
 The pension agency holds unsecured debt in UAL with a face value of about $5.6 billion; this converts into a 20 percent stake in the new shares. Deutsche Bank will try to sell half that stake before the close of business on Wednesday, said Ted Meyer, a spokesman for the bank. An official at the pension agency confirmed the arrangement but would not elaborate.
 United initially estimated that those with unsecured claims would realize four to eight cents on the dollar. But trading in those claims has been lively, with recent sales at 24 cents on the dollar, as investors have grown more enthusiastic about airline stocks.
 Earlier this month, about 2,000 pilots at United sold a combined $720 million in claims to investors, in transactions handled by Deutsche Bank, for slightly more than 24 cents on the dollar. The pilots received the claims -- a way to participate in any future fortunes of the company -- in exchange for wage and benefit concessions. Pilots and other workers still hold billions of dollars in claims and will receive new shares in exchange for them.
 The pension agency typically does not like to be a long-term holder of stock. Choosing to sell just half of its UAL stake now appears to be aimed at keeping the size of the sale from depressing the market for new UAL shares. The new shares will begin trading Thursday, said Jean Medina, a UAL spokeswoman.
 The agency is expected to cover about two-thirds of the $10 billion shortfall in the UAL pension plans. The remaining third owed to workers will not be paid out because the amount exceeds what is guaranteed by the agency. That mostly affects higher-paid workers, mostly pilots.
 Rising ticket prices and fuller planes, a consequence of a strong economy and a reduction in airline fleets, are improving airline results. Investors have bid up shares in AMR, the parent company of American Airlines, and in Continental Airlines in recent months.
 Selling now could be a smart move for the pension agency. United has projected an operating profit for this year, but on the basis of oil priced at $50 a barrel, not the $65 a barrel seen in recent weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARENT COMPANIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); TICKET SALES (64%) Airlines and Airplanes; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (94%); PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (93%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp; Deutsche Bank Ag; Ual Corp; United Airlines

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (94%); DEUT (JSE) (91%); DBK (FRA) (91%); DBK (BIT) (91%); DBETN (JSE) (91%); DBA (ASX) (91%); DB (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (93%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%)

PERSON: Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



649 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1909 words

HEADLINE: At U.S.C., A Practical Emphasis In Film

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Twenty-seven-year-old Rain Breaw is determined to become a movie director, so despite the prevailing wisdom, she is going to film school. 
 ''The general opinion is if you want to be a filmmaker, you'd be better off taking a production assistant job, and learn by doing,'' Ms. Breaw said during a break from classes at the University of Southern California's School of Cinema-Television, where she is in the final year of the three-year master's program. ''But if you're not a child with connections or have parents who can fund you, your only choice is film school.''
 More than a generation after film schools here and in New York nudged and nurtured a group of young artists including George Lucas, Martin Scorsese and Francis Ford Coppola toward cinematic greatness, the focus of academic strongholds like U.S.C., whose film school is the oldest in the country and one of the best, is squarely on the practical. 
 Rather than a breeding ground for auteurs, film school -- and there are now some 114 colleges that offer a major in film studies, according to the College Board -- has become a path to a professional career in Hollywood, a foot in the door and a place to make connections. With the announcements of this year's Oscar nominations due Tuesday morning, U.S.C. boasts on its Web site that at least one alumnus has been nominated for an Academy Award ''every year since 1973.''
 That sort of commercial awareness is ever present at the film school, where prospective students weigh the cost-benefit of investing more than $100,000 in an education versus, say, mounting their own independent film. It is a place where professors continually remind students that they should prepare for the reality that only a few of them will become directors, and where the essential tools for some new arrivals include U.S.C. business cards.
 ''We would like to see every student who leaves here have an employable skill,'' said Elizabeth M. Daley, dean of the school. She spoke in her office on the campus just south of downtown Los Angeles, where the auteur mythology is redolent; hanging on a wall was a 1977 photo of Mr. Lucas, Steven Spielberg and John Milius (like Mr. Lucas, a U.S.C. graduate) on the Universal lot, perusing a script. 
 As part of the program, all film students (there are 627 graduates and 953 undergraduates) write a script, use a camera, edit film, produce a project, light a set, build props, even buy -- or cook -- the food for craft services, in addition to learning about the history of film. The faculty includes many professors who have jobs in the motion picture industry or once did, and the class work ranges to critical studies for future professors, screenwriting, animation and digital studies. 
 Given the odds, Ms. Daley explained, it is unrealistic for the school to focus on training great filmmakers. Hollywood, just a half-dozen miles away, is eager for educated young people to fill the many needs of the entertainment machine -- editors, cinematographers, producers, agents and executives. 
 ''If you want to make the great American film -- how long will that take any individual to get where they want to be?'' she asked. ''Who knows?'' 
 Lawrence Turman, head of the school's producing track, is equally blunt. ''I treat it a little like a trade school,'' said Mr. Turman, a producer of ''The Graduate,'' ''American History X'' and a score of other films. ''Because the school is located in Los Angeles, I try to make it practical. Where do you find material? How do you develop it? Where do you get the money? How do you make it? How do you sell it?''
 But those skills will matter only to those with the talent and drive to use them, he said, regardless of the popular lure of Hollywood. ''Film school is one of the great growth industries -- like bottled water or corporate retreats,'' he said. ''Saul Zaentz didn't go to film school,'' he added, referring to the producer of ''The English Patient.'' ''I didn't go to film school. What you can't teach is taste, and emotional tenacity.'' 
 Tenacity has been indispensable to Ms. Breaw. Coming from an impoverished background and moving frequently as a child, she dreamed early on of becoming a filmmaker. 
 Her teachers, she said, were not encouraging. ''I have been actively discouraged by professors and teachers from going into film,'' she said with some bitterness. ''They said because of my economic background I had no chance.''
 But she hung onto her goal through undergraduate studies at Vassar, doing odd jobs like cleaning houses to support herself. She read books like the director Robert Rodriguez's ''Rebel Without a Crew: Or How a 23-year-old Filmmaker With $7,000 Became a Hollywood Player''; in it, Mr. Rodriguez, the director of ''Spy Kids'' and ''Sin City,'' urges aspiring filmmakers to jump directly into the maelstrom of the movie industry and, like him, not bother earning a film school degree. 
 Her peers had absorbed the same message. But while Ms. Breaw could not raise enough money to finance an independent film, she could qualify for almost unlimited student loans. Which is what brought her to U.S.C., considered one of the top four film schools in the country, along with the School of Theater, Film and Television at the University of California, Los Angeles; New York University's Tisch School of the Arts; and Columbia University's School of the Arts. 
 ''I'll be in debt,'' she said. ''But it was my only way of getting in.'' 
 That path makes her unusual among her peers, for there is some truth to the idea that film is a career choice for the privileged. Not everyone can afford to take a job at minimum-wage -- or close to it -- as a production assistant, and many poorer students may not have the stomach for three years of graduate school debt. 
 More typical was the quandary of Raj Patil, 28, who studied psychology at Brown University. While working at a literary management company in Beverly Hills for five years, ''I'd ask everybody: film school, or no school?'' he recalled. ''It was down the middle.''
 In the end, Mr. Patil chose U.S.C. because he saw a chance ''to take creative risks and to meet people who are more talented than I am,'' he said, adding, ''If I'd pooled $100,000 from investors to make a film, the incentive to take a risk would be much lower.''
 The issue of cost looms large for U.S.C. film students, and not just because tuition is about $34,000 a year for graduate students, $31,400 for undergrads. Most students take a course known by its catalog number -- 480 -- in which they must complete five short films in a single semester. 
 Graduate students are required to make multiple films before they complete their degrees, including two eight-minute, 16-millimeter films, done in groups of four students, and a 15-minute ''special project.'' They receive small stipends to make these films, but most say the sum is not enough, and they are forced to raise money anywhere they can to supplement their budgets. For those with contacts or resources, these extra costs can climb into the tens of thousands of dollars, which can make for a very uneven playing field. 
 For her special project about a Cambodian family living in San Diego, Ms. Breaw has raised $6,000 from 10 donors, including families whose houses she used to clean and employees at an art library where she did data entry. ''I'll shoot the film for as much as I raise,'' she said. 
 Ms. Daley and professors at U.S.C. acknowledge that these costs are a concern for which they have not yet found a solution. ''We look at it as a problem,'' she said. ''It's not a good idea to go into debt to finance a short film.'' 
 Founded in 1929 as a collaboration between the university and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the U.S.C. film school was the first program in the country to offer a bachelor of arts degree in film.
 From early on, the school focused on moviemaking rather than academics, with its very first course named ''Introduction to Photoplay,'' only later branching into film theory and critical studies. Hollywood was never far from the campus; Douglas Fairbanks Sr. and Mary Pickford were among the early lecturers. 
 But it was in the 1970's that the student body could first boast a rising star, with Mr. Lucas. He made his award-winning student film, ''THX 1138:4EB,'' into a feature film through his friend Francis Ford Coppola's new company, American Zoetrope. Mr. Spielberg was rejected by U.S.C. when he applied to transfer from Cal State Long Beach. But as the object of Spielbergian desire, U.S.C. became part of the legend of the artists who made some of the lasting movies of the 70's. (And U.S.C. gave Mr. Spielberg an honorary doctorate in 1994.) In that same period, Mr. Coppola attended graduate school at U.C.L.A.; Mr. Scorsese had graduated from N.Y.U. in 1964, lending more cachet to the notion of film school training. 
 Today, the emphasis on craft over artistry gives the school a split personality. U.S.C. relies heavily on its connections to the towering talent that has passed through its halls -- which, not incidentally, are everywhere adorned with signed posters from landmark films by Mr. Lucas (''Star Wars''), Robert Zemeckis (another alumnus, director of ''Forrest Gump'' and ''The Polar Express'') and Mr. Spielberg. 
 Mr. Lucas, Mr. Zemeckis and Mr. Spielberg are all on the school's board of councilors, and their names are on buildings and sound stages on campus. 
 But as dearly as U.S.C. holds its connection to the greats of the 1970's, the current emphasis is elsewhere. Indeed, only a few directors stand out among U.S.C.'s more recent graduates as at (or near) the top of Hollywood's artistic or commercial heap: Doug Liman, who directed ''Mr. and Mrs. Smith''; Jay Roach, director of the ''Austin Powers'' films; Richard Kelly, who wrote and directed the cult hit ''Donnie Darko''; and Judd Apatow, who co-wrote and directed the hit comedy ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin.'' (Ron Howard, who won the Oscar for ''A Beautiful Mind,'' left U.S.C. after two years.)
 ''We can't point to someone recently who's made the same impact as Lucas, or Walter Murch,'' the Oscar-winning cinematographer, acknowledged Mark Jonathan Harris, a film professor at U.S.C. and a two-time Oscar-winning documentary filmmaker in his own right. (He went to Harvard and studied English, not film.) ''What is the purpose of film school?'' he continued. ''It's a large question worth asking. At the undergraduate level, we teach people to see more clearly, whether or not they're going to be George Lucas.'' 
 What students seek from the film school experience, it seems, is a direct connection to an industry that, without one, is hard to crack. And for that, modern-day U.S.C. is without peer. With its long list of alumni who are powerful figures in contemporary Hollywood, the so-called Trojans network offers students a crucial leg up in the industry, with internships and job opportunities.
 For Tracy Weinberg, a graduate student in the producing program, it's as if she is already part of Hollywood. Last year she had an internship with John Wells, the television producer, a U.S.C. alumnus. She is currently an intern at Blumhouse Productions, based on the Paramount lot, where she works regular office hours and does her coursework at night. 
 ''I feel completely prepared,'' she said. ''I feel I could step into the industry right now and know more or less what I'm doing.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts yesterday about the practical emphasis at film schools like the one at the University of Southern California referred incorrectly to Walter Murch, an Oscar-winning graduate of U.S.C. He is a film editor, and a sound editor and designer, not a cinematographer.
An article in The Arts yesterday about the practical emphasis at film schools like the one at the University of Southern California referred incorrectly to Walter Murch, an Oscar-winning graduate of U.S.C. He is a film editor, and a sound editor and designer, not a cinematographer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charlene Sun, left, and Rain Breaw at work on a student film. (Photo by Misha Erwitt for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Students at the University of Southern California's School of Cinema-Television must learn all aspects of filmmaking, including lighting.
 Mark Jonathan Harris, film professor at U.S.C., says film studies can ''teach people to see more clearly.'' (Photographs by Misha Erwitt for The New York Times)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); FILM HISTORY (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (73%); WEB SITES (50%) Motion Pictures; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%) University of Southern California

PERSON: GEORGE LUCAS (78%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA (58%) Sharon Waxman

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



650 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Plans A Trust Fund For Retirees

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg expects to announce today that his administration will seek to set aside $2 billion over the next two years to create a trust fund to pay health benefits for retired city employees, as part of a plan to prepare the city for choppy fiscal waters on the horizon, his aides said yesterday.
 The trust fund is made possible by a continued gusher of city revenue from taxes on real estate transactions, business profits and personal income. In releasing his preliminary budget proposal for next year, the mayor is also expected to say today that total revenue will be even higher this year than his estimate in November of a surplus of $1.7 billion this fiscal year. More recent estimates from several budget watchdog groups put the surplus for the current fiscal year, which ends in June, at more than $2 billion. The city's budget totals $53 billion. 
Mr. Bloomberg's budget proposal for the 2007 fiscal year is also expected to include previously announced additions of staff and training programs at the Administration for Children's Services.
 In announcing his first new budget proposal since being re-elected, Mr. Bloomberg will probably hew to a theme of fiscal preparedness for an uncertain future, the aides said, taking advantage of the surplus to fortify the city's finances for the future. City officials still anticipate the return of multibillion-dollar budget deficits starting in 2008.
 By putting aside money now -- $1 billion this fiscal year and another $1 billion next year -- to pay for future health care costs, the city would not have to dig as deep to cover those payments when times are tight.
 ''It's a matter of using resources from those times when revenues are relatively strong to mitigate the impact of economic downturns, and the invariable budget cuts and tax increases that accompany them,'' said Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor.
 The decision to create the trust fund is motivated in part by recent changes to accounting standards. State and local governments are now required to begin including in their budgets the total value of health benefits earned in a given year, even if some of those benefits will not be paid out to retired employees until future years. Cities that do not create trust funds, or some other financing mechanisms to cover those costs, could jeopardize their credit ratings.
 Taking the initiative to create the trust fund has the added political benefit to the mayor of putting municipal labor unions on the defensive, since it publicly sets a price tag on the high cost of maintaining the relatively generous health care benefits accorded to retired municipal workers. The city provides free health insurance to its retired employees and their families.
 Besides the increase in tax revenue, another factor making it easier to set aside the $2 billion is a set of accounting changes approved by the city's public employee pension boards, which will allow the city to defer payments of $1.4 billion over the next two years. Under the changes, the city can delay making some contributions to the retirement funds for a year, and can phase in investment gains and losses over a longer period, resulting in short-term savings.
 Mr. Bloomberg's announcement of his proposed spending plan, scheduled for noon at City Hall, will signal the start of the annual process that culminates in a budget's being approved by the City Council before the end of June. The council, headed by a new speaker, Christine C. Quinn, will probably have other priorities for how some of the city's budget surplus this year should be used.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITIES (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); APPROVALS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); CHILD WELFARE (72%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); CHILD ABUSE (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ACCOUNTING (61%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (56%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Government Employees; Child Abuse and Neglect

ORGANIZATION: Administration for Children's Services (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) Mike Mcintire; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



651 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: A Javits Expansion, Seen As Not Expansive Enough

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The billion-dollar expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center was supposed to be easy.
 Unlike the ill-fated plan to build a stadium for the Jets on the Far West Side, the proposal to extend the Javits Center two blocks north in a bid to attract larger and more trade shows and conventions was endorsed by many sides, including environmental groups, the local community board, labor unions, the governor and the mayor. Proponents promised jobs galore as restaurant and hotel bookings soared.
But it took six contentious months to obtain legislative approval in Albany and a year to hire the architects and construction manager. And yesterday, only a week after state and city officials unveiled newly minted architectural plans, New York's senior senator issued a letter calling on Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Javits Development Corporation, to scrap it all and go back to the drawing board. 
 In his letter to Mr. Gargano, Senator Charles E. Schumer contends that the proposed addition to the Javits Center is too small and would provide a ''less than ideal'' vertical expansion, rather than new exhibit space confined to one level. Further, he said, the convention center would be precluded from expanding to the south at some point in the future.
 ''This is a bollocked-up job,'' Mr. Schumer said in an interview yesterday. ''They're twisting everything into a pretzel. People want to come to New York, that's clear. But this will not attract many conventions. New York is losing its ability to think grandly and this is a great example of it.''
 Mr. Schumer's comments echoed similar criticism from Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, who presides over a legislative committee that oversees state authorities, and from Robert Boyle, who until recently was chairman of the corporation that operates the Javits Center.
 Mr. Gargano defended the expansion plans, saying the additional space would allow the Javits Center to run several trade shows at once and turn a forbidding black glass structure with a leaky roof into an inviting, watertight exhibition space. At the same time, Mr. Gargano said, he is trying to tamp down the costs, which have swelled to $1.7 billion from $1.4 billion.
 ''We're going to develop the best product possible,'' he said. ''It meets all the standards of the industry. We're also doing everything possible to avoid going back to the Legislature for more money.''
 The Javits Center sits on the west side of 11th Avenue, between 34th and 38th Streets. The center would expand to 40th Street under the current plan, creating a total of 1.1 million square feet of exhibition space, 200,000 square feet of meeting space and a large ballroom. But the current plan contains less meeting space and less contiguous exhibition space than the proposal approved by the Legislature in December 2004.
 Joseph Spinnato, president of the Hotel Association of New York City and chairman of the Javits operating corporation, supports the current proposal. ''Is it the perfect configuration?'' he said. ''No. But based on what we have to deal with, it's the best at the moment. This project has to go forward, or we're back at square one.''
 Jonathan M. Tisch, chairman of the city's visitors and convention bureau, NYC & Company, also opposed any delays on a project that it has promoted for a decade. According to the bureau, the American Library Association and the American Chemical Society as well as several other groups have already booked the Javits based on the expansion plan. 
 ''I think they're on the right track,'' said Jeff Little, president of George Little Management, which produces the largest number of trade shows at the center. ''It's going to be a vast improvement over what we have now. I do wish we could get more space.''
 But Mr. Brodsky, who is planning to hold a hearing on the plan on Thursday, said it made no sense to rush forward with a seriously flawed proposal, even if some business is lost.
 ''It's a dramatic step backwards for economic growth in the city,'' Mr. Brodsky said. ''It doesn't do us any good to rapidly build a bad facility.''
 He, Mr. Boyle, Mr. Schumer and others contend that the current plan would leave the center lagging far behind larger facilities in Chicago, Las Vegas and Orlando, Fla. While there is a glut of exhibition space nationally, they say, New York could attract more business if it had a significantly larger center.
 Some of the problems stem from a recent decision to move the center's marshaling yard, where the trucks carrying supplies for the exhibits are parked, from the south end to a new, six-story garage at the north end, which forced designers to reduce meeting room space and add a third level of exhibition space. City officials insist that it makes more sense to use the marshaling yard for residential and commercial development than for parking trucks. They say the property could be sold for $339 million and the money used for the expansion.
 ''No one knows much about the real estate deal, but we do know this doesn't work well for the convention center,'' Mr. Brodsky said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); CITIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RESTAURANTS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (56%); HOTELS & MOTELS (56%) Conventions and Conferences; Restoration and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%) Javits, Jacob K, Convention Center (NYC); Javits Development Corp 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (79%) Charles V Bagli; Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Charles A Gargano

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006



652 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Bush Will Use Address to Focus on Alternative Fuels and Nuclear Plants 

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and DAVID E. SANGER; Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
President Bush will renew a call for the development of alternative fuel for automobiles and promote the construction of new nuclear power plants in his State of the Union address on Tuesday night, White House officials said Monday.
 After years of partisan arguments over the administration's efforts to open new parts of the country for oil and gas drilling, Mr. Bush will cast his discussion of nonoil sources of energy as an economic imperative for the United States and a national security necessity to reduce dependence on Middle Eastern oil.
The issues have been part of Mr. Bush's agenda for years, but never a top priority. He will use his address to refocus attention on them at a time when oil is selling at more than $68 a barrel, close to its all-time high, and Americans are worried about the cost of fueling their cars and heating their homes. 
 White House officials said the address would contain no expensive policy initiatives at a time of growing deficits and when Congress would be focused on midterm elections. Mr. Bush will also use the address to announce new proposals in health care, fiscal policy and what White House officials are calling ''American competitiveness,'' which includes investing in math and science and job training.
 White House officials said that Mr. Bush had practiced his speech Friday, Sunday and Monday morning in the White House theater, and that he was on the 23rd draft. They said that it was still being fact-checked, and that there would probably be last-minute changes to include developments on Iran and the Hamas victory in the Palestinian election last week.
 Mr. Bush hinted at the energy proposals in his address in an interview with Bob Schieffer of CBS News and talked about hybrid cars that use conventional fuels and battery technology as well as the possibilities of other fuels.
 ''I agree with Americans who understand being hooked on foreign oil as an economic problem and a natural security problem,'' Mr. Bush said.
 He added that he wanted to advance the development of ethanol, the fuel that is made from corn, as well as the development of fuel made from the waste part of plant crops.
 ''I'm convinced we could do that with a good push, a technological push,'' Mr. Bush told Mr. Schieffer.
 The Energy Department has high hopes for such a fuel made from plant waste, like corn leaves and stalks, or from wood or grass, using the cellulose, or woody material, instead of sugars. The technique would reduce the amount of land needed for ethanol and the amount of fossil fuel, like natural gas and diesel fuel, used per gallon of ethanol production. But research is still in the early stages and years away from the marketplace.
 Mr. Bush is unlikely to emphasize oil and gas exploration in his address.
 ''What's interesting about this discussion is that he isn't talking about oil exploration at home,'' said one senior official with knowledge of the drafts of the speech. ''Nobody wants to get bogged down in those arguments again,'' he said, a reference to the debate in Washington over drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and projects that involve federal lands in the West.
 The proposals to promote alternative fuels and nuclear power are meant to build on the administration's energy bill, passed by Congress last summer, which requires, for example, that 5 percent of the nation's gasoline pool be ethanol by 2012.
 ''The president is stepping on the gas on these policies,'' said Daniel Yergin, the author of ''The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power,'' and the founder of a consulting firm, Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''He's increasing the focus, and that means increasing everything from research and development spending to regulatory reform.''
 The president will also highlight recent initiatives that have removed some obstacles to building nuclear power plants in the United States. Mr. Bush has said for years that the nation has not ordered a new nuclear power plant since the 1970's, the time of the Three Mile Island nuclear accident.
 There has since been a shift in opinion in the industry and among some environmentalists toward nuclear power, which is now safer than in the 1970's. The United States now gets 20 percent of its electricity from nuclear power, and this year electric companies are showing even more interest, partly because of the high price of natural gas, which a reactor could displace. But so far no company has ordered a new nuclear plant.
 It is unclear what Mr. Bush will say, if anything, about reducing demand for fuel. In the past, he has not favored any big changes in the regulations that govern automobile fuel efficiency.
 Mr. Bush is not prepared, officials say, to unveil a major project he hopes to announce in coming months involving the reprocessing of nuclear waste into new fuels, a project that the Japanese and Europeans have long been involved in but that has had mixed success at best.
 Democrats in the House of Representatives, reacting in advance to Mr. Bush's speech, said they would broadcast a commercial on the Fox News Channel that accuses the president and the Republican Party of favoring the oil, investment and pharmaceutical industries. The commercial shows lawmakers cheering Mr. Bush during earlier State of the Union addresses and asks, ''What special interest will the Republican Congress rubber-stamp this time?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush spoke to reporters yesterday after meeting with his Cabinet at the White House. He is expected to discuss energy issues in his State of the Union address tonight. (Photo by Lawrence Jackson/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); ETHANOL (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); OIL EXPLORATION (76%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); OIL EXTRACTION (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); HAMAS (63%) United States Politics and Government; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; State of the Union Message (US); Automobiles

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Elizabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006

 
