

1 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: BLACK AIDE QUITS IN SOUTH AFRICA

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DAVEYTON, South Africa

 BODY:
For more than a decade, Daveyton's Mayor, Tom Boya, was Pretoria's evidence of the legitimacy of the municipal councils running its segregated black townships.
As president of the United Municipalities of South Africa, an organization of black municipal officials, Mr. Boya put aside his mayoral duties and traveled as far afield as the United States and Brazil to discourse on the concerns of local government. 
 But he recently stunned a crowd of 80,000 residents of Daveyton by announcing that he was quitting his posts. He said the system with which he had become identified had no future. Whether motivated by conscience or survival, his unexpected resignation elicited wild cheers and seemed to signal the beginning of the end for black township governments.
"I just feel a big stone has been removed from my shoulders," Mr. Boya said in his modern brick house in this quiet township of 200,000 black residents east of Johannesburg.
 
Electricity Is Shut Off
 Mr. Boya, who is 39 years old, said the handwriting appeared on the wall after the African National Congress was made legal and Nelson Mandela released in February. "I realized there was no room any more for a person to serve in a structure created by the Government," he said.
His decision to quit, he said, was prompted by his inability to stop the state-owned power company from switching off Daveyton's electricity for four days recently because of unpaid bills. He said it illustrated the frustrations he had faced in Daveyton since joining its town council in 1978.
"The weakness of the black local authorities was simply lack of funds, lack of local sources of revenue," Mr. Boya said. But, he quickly added, "the structures were illegitimate" because the white minority Government had imposed them on blacks.
Behind Daveyton's financial woes lies the Group Areas Act, the law that divides communities on racial lines. White towns are wealthier because their residents have better jobs and more money.
 
Accused of Being Puppets
 Their resources are not shared with the satellite black townships, which began as stark dormitories for blacks working at menial jobs in white areas and which suffer chronic poverty and unemployment.
Anti-apartheid civic associations have organized boycotts of rent and utility payments to protest inferior living conditions, which deprive municipal governments of the modest revenue upon which they depend. The associations have accused municipal officials like Mr. Boya of being puppets of apartheid.
As Mr. Boya told it, the utility company, Eskom, threatened to cut off Daveyton's electricity in September unless overdue bills, which constitute part of the township's $475,000 deficit, were paid. Mr. Boya said he was assured of a $80,000 bridging loan from the Transvaal Provincial Administration, which supervises municipal governments and provides public services in the Transvaal. In return, he said, Daveyton agreed that every household would pay the equivalent of $28 a month to work off the arrears.
 
'I Felt So Lonely'
 Satisfied that the crisis had been resolved, Mr. Boya flew to Rio de Janeiro for a conference. In his absence, the deal collapsed when the Transvaal Provincial Administration insisted that most of the money paid go to pay municipal wages and only a little to the utility company. He returned home to find the electricity turned off and his constituents irate.
"I felt so lonely," Mr. Boya said. "I felt rejected. I felt betrayed."
The electricity was turned back on after residents took the utility company to court.
Mr. Boya's foreboding about the future of black local government was heightened when he went to a United Municipalities conference recently and found only 8 of its 60 municipal councils represented.
He called a public meeting in Daveyton's soccer stadium to explain why the electricity failed. When he arrived, Mr. Boya said, nobody was there. Everyone had gone to a protest rally called by the Daveyton Interim Committee, the local civic association, in another stadium.
 
'The System Is Bankrupt'
 Mr. Boya said he went to the other rally and decided to quit. "You could have heard a pin when I went over to the podium," he said. "I then offered my resignation."
James Ngubo, chairman of the Daveyton Interim Committee said that "Mr. Boya coming out really symbolizes that the system is bankrupt." He said the white minority Government had set up Mr. Boya as a "good black man" to make black local authorities palatable. His group had pressed Mr. Boya to resign, Mr. Ngubo said, and the power cuts "must have been the last straw for him."
Four other Daveyton councillors have followed Mr. Boya's example.
Mr. Boya predicted the inevitable collapse of all township government structures. "I think it will be very healthy when it happens," he said. "From those ruins, we can build."
He said municipalites must encompass white and black communities together and pool their revenue. And municipalities, he said, should be defined by region instead of race.
"The Government should abolish black local authorities and white local authorities and call for an election of local authorities under one umbrella," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (96%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA; DAVEYTON (SOUTH AFRICA)

SUBJECT: BLACKS (NON-US) REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (88%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BOYCOTTS (66%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; BOYA, TOM NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



2 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: News's Owners Speak Softly but Take a Hard Line

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 31

 BODY:
From the 65-year-old Gothic tower of the Tribune Company, a sober place that respects prudence, the message is quietly stated but clear: The owners of The Daily News plan to hold on to their tabloid, defy strikers, revamp the newspaper's production and so, in effect, transform the way the press works in New York City.
Hardened by a strike five years ago at the company's flagship newspaper, The Chicago Tribune, over the same sort of plant modernization they now seek at The Daily News, top Tribune executives exude determination to get what they see as an essential job done in New York, just as it was accomplished here at the paper they call "the voice of the heartland." 
 While union leaders and some industry experts have suggested that the company will ultimately shut down The News, Tribune executives dismiss that notion.
"We're in New York with an excellent franchise and we plan to make it grow and prosper," said John W. Madigan, the president and publisher of The Tribune and a director of the Tribune Company. "Throughout this company, we want to be as efficient as we can and as up-to-date in every respect. The Daily News is a long way away from that."
 
Drain on Profits
 In fact, The Daily News, which the Tribune Company founded in 1919, is a major drain on the $2.5 billion-a-year media corporation, which has produced otherwise impressive results with its press, television and entertainment properties since going public in 1983. Accounting for about 17 percent of Tribune Company revenue, The Daily News has piled up losses of about $115 millon since 1980 and is expected to lose at least another $60 million this year.
"It's a nightmare," James Hoge, the chief executive of The Daily News, said in a telephone interview from New York.
"We carry an inordinate and wholly unnecessary cost," said Mr. Hoge, a graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy and Yale who became managing editor of the Chicago Sun-Times at the age of 31. "Management does not have the right to hire, supervise, make changes and determine the real work that needs to be done. But we're going to reform that now."
The parent company's objective, its executives say, is to emerge from the strike with enough control over the management of The Daily News to justify building a series of new production plants that would allow delivery of a full-color, late-edition paper throughout metropolitan New York.
 
A Long History
 In making this stand, the Tribune Company is gambling that it can do in New York what it did here. It is a steady, determined company with a long history. Joseph Medill, the legendary Chicago Tribune editor who established the paper's reputation shortly after its debut in 1847, urged his successors to "in all things follow the line of common sense." Seen from Chicago, what has happened at The Daily News over the last decade is just not sensible.
But New York is considered a much tougher union town than Chicago, and the Chicago strike did not include drivers. "There was never any trick to producing papers without unions -- distributing them is always the key," Rupert Murdoch, whose News Corporation won a similar union battle in London in 1986, said in a telephone interview today. "And without police protection, I'd be surprised if Tribune can manage it."
The effect of modernization is obvious in Chicago. An interview with Mr. Madigan, who is widely viewed as the Tribune Company's heir apparent, took place in offices created in what was, until 1983, the site of The Chicago Tribune's presses.
It was the elimination of those old presses and the construction of the modern production facility, called Freedom Center, that helped The Chicago Tribune sharply increase its profit margins to nearly 25 percent -- and sparked a sometimes violent strike over how the new plant should be staffed and managed.
Although litigation continues, The Chicago Tribune effectively beat that 1985 strike, enabling it take advantage of the new technology it introduced at a cost of $200 million. The company was able to raise productivity at its highly automated plant between 50 and 100 percent, slashing costs and eliminating about 400 jobs, more than 25 percent of the production work force.
Asked how this 1985 strike affects the company's strategy at The Daily News, Mr. Madigan said, "It's an experience we had and it made us more knowledgeable."
Such brief, deadpan pronouncements are typical of this corporation, which values action far above words and where executives shun grand statements in favor of observations such as, "We believe in sticking to our knitting."
 
Owners of the Cubs
 Throughout this week, as reports of violence in New York reached Chicago, there was no sign of agitation here. Indeed, during a brief conversation, Charles T. Brumback, the 62-year-old chief executive of the Tribune Company, said he was busy with an announcement concerning another Tribune property -- the Chicago Cubs.
Labor leaders here who have fought the company offer testimony to management's toughness. "The New York unions are up against probably the most ruthless group of people that have been put together," said Bob Nader, the secretary-treasurer of the Chicago Mailers Union, whose members struck in 1985 and have not got their jobs back.
For management, what is at stake at The Daily News makes it essential to be tough. Throughout the 1980's, the Tribune Company has shunned major diversification in favor of making its existing properties as efficient and profitable as possible.
"We've put a hard focus on costs and increased revenues," said Mr. Madigan, a tall, dour man of 52 who speaks in a monotone. "I can't give you anything that sounds sexy. It's just basic, bedrock management techniques applied to our business of being more efficient."
 
Installing New Presses
 Thus, over the past decade, the Tribune Company has invested more than half a billion dollars in state-of-the-art offset presses at five of its seven newspapers, which account for 65 percent of the company's revenue.
The results have been impressive. Since the company offered shares to the public in 1983, revenue has soared from $1.5 billion to $2.45 billion last year and net profits -- rising an average of 23 percent annually -- have almost tripled, to $242 million.
"They have shown a very good ability to keep costs under control and are one of the better-managed media companies around," said Eric Philo, a vice president of Goldman Sachs, the investment house.
The conspicuous exception to this performance -- "the ugly stepchild," as Jim Squires, a former editor of The Chicago Tribune, put it -- has been The Daily News, where, the company says, union control over a large number of jobs has blocked modernization plans that have been in place for several years.
And now, after a series of steady but manageable losses during the 1980's, an abrupt downturn in the New York economy has, in management's view, made a resolution of The Daily News problem essential. Largely as a result of losses there and at its Canadian newsprint operations, the Tribune Company's net profits in 1990 are expected to plunge by 30 percent or more.
Leading the company's stand is its chief executive, Mr. Brumback, a quiet, rotund man with a reputation for toughness, who was educated at Indiana's Culver Military Academy and Princeton and received a bronze star during the Korean War. He was the president of The Chicago Tribune when it won its union battle, and got the top job at the Tribune Company three months ago.
"The New York unions think they can muscle Brumback," Mr. Squires said. "But Brumback don't muscle. You don't muscle that guy."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: The Tribune Company's reveneues, profits and losses from '82 to '90 (Sources: Tribune Company; Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRC (FRA) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (92%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO TRIBUNE; NEW YORK NEWS; TRIBUNE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHICAGO (ILL); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; LABOR; STRIKES STRIKES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



3 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
U.S. Preparing U.N. Draft On Claims Against Baghdad

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 31

 BODY:
The Bush Administration is preparing a new United Nations Security Council resolution requiring governments to earmark frozen Iraqi assets to meet future compensation claims by victims of its invasion of Kuwait, American officials said today.
The resolution follows a decision by the Security Council on Monday establishing Iraq's responsibility for all financial losses resulting from its invasion of Kuwait and asking governments to draw up claims against Baghdad on behalf of themselves and their citizens. It also asked them to submit any evidence they can find of human rights abuses by Iraqi forces there. 
 American officials say the resolution is one of several new moves they are planning with a view to making the economic embargo as tight as possible. Only then, they argued, will the Council be in a position to decide if these economic sanctions are likely to force Iraq out of Kuwait on their own, or whether armed force should be considered as well.
The Security Council has already ordered United Nations members to block Iraq's overseas assets, like bank accounts and commercial property, as part of the comprehensive economic sanctions it imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2.
 
Special Escrow Accounts
 The emerging Council resolution would place these frozen assets in special escrow accounts intended to meet future claims against Iraq or in some other way designate them for compensation payments. But American officials say the actual payments could not be made until the gulf crisis is resolved and all claims processed.
The total value of Iraq's frozen overseas assets has been estimated unofficially at up to $4 billion.
In the Bush Administration's view, the new resolution is intended to maintain international pressure on President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, show that the Council remains united in its determination to oust him from Kuwait and keep the world's attention focused on the gulf crisis.
As President of the Security Council for the month of November, the United States representative will be well positioned to press for its new resolution. But he is likely to run into difficulties with Arab and nonaligned members who also want the Security Council to discuss the plight of Palestinians living in the occupied territories.
 
Thoughts on Palestinians
 Later this week, the Secretary General of the United Nations is to tell the Council how he thinks the organization might better protect the Palestinians living in occupied Israeli territory, after at least 17 Palestinians were shot at Al Aksa Mosque in Jerusalem after rocks were thrown at Jewish worshipers. And Arab and nonaligned countries want the Security Council to give priority to deciding on such measures.
A popular idea at present is for one of the United Nations agencies or peacekeeping forces in the area to be given the job of monitoring charges of human rights violations by Israeli forces.
But some members may also take advantage of any debate on the occupied territories to press for firmer Security Council action against Israel for its continued occupation of these Arab lands when the Council is already punishing Iraq for occupying Kuwait.
 
U.S. Maintains Right to Fight
 The Bush Administration still maintains it already has the right in international law to go to war to free Kuwait under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. This allows members to appeal to allies for protection against an aggressor. It was the article Kuwait and Saudi Arabia invoked when they first asked the United States and other countries to send forces to the gulf.
But American officials say the Administration is examining the possibility of seeking specific Security Council authorization, as well, because of the increased legitimacy this would give any military operation in the eyes of many countries, including the Soviet Union. But they say a decision to ask the Council for such permission would depend on their assessment of whether it will agree.
As the negotiations continued, diplomats said Jordan, one of the countries most seriously affected by the economic embargo against Iraq, had asked the Security Council to send United Nations observers to confirm that no goods or oil are leaking across its frontier with Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (97%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); KUWAIT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: ASSETS, FROZEN; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMED FORCES (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



4 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Fed Notes New Signs Of Distress

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
The economy continues to weaken, particularly in retailing, but apparently not to the point that would call for energetic relaxation of monetary policy, a Federal Reserve survey indicated today.
Though the general appraisal of the economy was a little worse than in the preceding report, published on Sept. 19, the survey had a more ominous tone and included much anecdotal evidence of growing distress. The report cited the forced renegotiation of contracts, squeezed profit margins and a virtual lack of financing for speculative real estate ventures. 
 "Economic activity appears to have grown slowly in most Federal Reserve districts since early August, but seems to have declined somewhat in others," a summary of the survey stated. It called retail sales "sluggish or down in most of the country," while manufacturing was "mixed to weaker."
In September, economic activity was said to have been "expanding more slowly or declining in most" of the 12 Federal Reserve districts.
 
'Somber Contrast'
 An economist at the Tokai Bank in New York, Robert T. McGee, called the "beige book" report on current conditions a "somber contrast" to Tuesday's Commerce Department report of a 1.8 percent rate of increase in the gross national product for the third quarter. "Instead, the discussion is replete with evidence of further deterioration," he said.
But the survey also uncovered considerable strength in exports, a relatively robust agricultural sector and some gains in retailing and manufacturing in the Middle West. It appeared, however, that much of the apparent steadiness in automobile sales represented sales to rental fleets rather than to individuals.
The survey is conducted to aid deliberations of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee, the central bank's main instrument for setting monetary policy. The committee is scheduled to meet eight times a year, with the next session on Nov. 13.
After Congress reached agreement on a deficit-reduction package, the Fed on Monday cut by a quarter point, to 7 3/4 percent, the short-term interest rate over which it had the most direct control.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has been reported as having urged consideration of a larger cut in rates should the economy weaken further. But he has suggested publicly that he is not eager to do so in the absence of what he called a cumulative unwinding of the economy.
Today's report appeared not to meet those grounds for a vigorous relaxation of monetary policy by the Fed.
 
More Widespread Weakness
 The survey, assembled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond from data collected by the districts before Oct. 19, suggested that the weakness described in the survey published in mid-September had spread beyond the Northeast and Middle Atlantic areas and had intensified.
All the districts except Chicago, for example, reported that sales grew more slowly or fell in the latest period, with retail workers being laid off in some places and managers in most districts "generally pessimistic" about sales prospects.
The Boston bank said "all respondents" indicated they were trimming inventories or jobs or deferring capital projects. It added, "In the absence of some new positive force, retailers and wholesalers continue to express a lack of optimism about the possibilities for an economic recovery in the region in the next year or so."
The New York district said all of its retail contacts reported a second straight month of year-over-year declines in sales, while the Philadelphia bank said the usual fall sales upturn "has not materialized."
While a pullback by consumers rarely pushes the economy into recession, retail sales are closely monitored since they represent about a third of economic activity.
The Fed survey found weakness in manufacturing across most industries, although Chicago had "relatively strong" activity and several districts had increased production of energy or military goods.
The Atlanta district reported that companies in Alabama making military apparel were running at full capacity, but that other companies had lost export orders for Iraq and Kuwait.
No district expressed serious concern among manufacturers that inventory levels were too high, though producers in Philadelphia and Kansas City, Mo., were cutting them back, the survey found.
Exports of manufactured goods from the Richmond and Cleveland districts rose, but exports fell from the Chicago and Boston districts.
 
Drop in Vacancy Rate
 In New York, three straight months of "strong leasing" caused the primary vacancy rate in midtown Manhattan to fall for the first time this year, and the slow construction pace is expected to reduce the vacancy rate further in the coming months. Downtown rates remained "roughly stable" with the aid of lower rents.
The survey noted the inflation risk posed by continued high oil prices, and said many trucking and other companies were adding transportation surcharges. But the report found relatively little current inflation pressure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (61%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); RETAILERS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



5 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Computer Study of Cuomo Donors Finds Correlation With Contracts

BYLINE: By FRANK LYNN

 BODY:
Wells, Rich, Greene, the advertising agency, has a $30 million state contract for the "I Love New York" campaign and hopes to renew the contract next March. The agency has contributed at least $42,000 to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's campaigns over the last eight years, including $20,000 this year.
Iffland, Kavanagh, Waterbury has three engineering contracts with the State Department of Transportation worth $9.7 million, according to the State Comptroller's office. The firm and its officers have given at least $20,917 to Cuomo campaigns, including $12,417 this year. 
 Vincent Tese is Governor Cuomo's Commissioner of Economic Development and chairman of the State Urban Development Corporation, two posts that give him a role in handing out many of the state's most lucrative contracts. Mr. Tese and his wife, Joyce, have given $90,800 to Mr. Cuomo, including $25,000 last December.
These contributions -- not the largest Mr. Cuomo has received -- demonstrate the close relationship between campaign donations and state government, ties that are signaled in periodic campaign financial reports but are revealed more fully in a computerized study conducted by The New York Times of the approximately $20 million in contributions received by Governor Cuomo over his eight years in office.
For the survey, a computerized data base begun by the State Government Integrity Commission was updated by The Times. An analysis of the contributions finds a correlation between state contracts and large contributions to the Cuomo campaigns. The list also includes a hard core of large donors whose connections with the state, if any, are not always clear-cut.
The donations are legal, and contributors interviewed have denied any but altruistic motives like admiration for Mr. Cuomo and the hope that he will prosper politically.
Mr. Cuomo has maintained and reiterated in a recent interview that he does not see the fund-raising lists. But the commission said people raising funds for him led some to believe he was aware of individual contributions.
The Governor has said repeatedly that he favors public financing of campaigns to avoid any impressions of conflicts of interest. But he has argued that he will not voluntarily restrict contributions, so that he can keep up pressure on the Republican majority in the State Senate to enact such a law.
The largest cumulative contributor, the investment firm of Bear Stearns, has been the underwriter of many state bond issues. Labor unions, which are mong the biggest donors, have considerable interest in state legislation.
The largest individual contributor, Fedele V. Scutti, a Rochester auto dealer, however, is not listed as having business with the state. He did not return telephone calls to his office seeking comment.
An engineering firm, Parsons, Brinckerhoff, Quade & Douglas, which was criticized by State Comptroller Edward V. Regan recently for insufficient supervision of a construction project for the Long Island Rail Road at Hillside, received $32 million for that project and nearly $3 million for other state contracts. The firm has donated at least $24,000 to Governor Cuomo, $7,000 of it this year.
Berger, Lehman & Associates has four Transportation Department engineering contracts worth $9.7 million, according to contract records kept by the State Comptroller's office. The firm has given Cuomo campaigns at least $19,000, with $2,000 this year.
 
A Major Landlord
 The Picotte family of Albany through its real-estate firms is a major landlord for state agencies, according to the Comptroller's office, with just one of its companies receiving $670,000 in state rentals in a year. The family and its companies have given at least $40,000 to Cuomo campaigns, including $10,000 this year.
Another state landlord, the 10 Ellicott Square Corporation of Buffalo, has received $1.46 million in rents from the state in the last 18 months. It has contributed at least $5,456 to Mr. Cuomo.
A computer check of the campaign finances of Attorney General Robert Abrams found a politically significant donation.
Mr. Abrams has received the Liberal Party nomination for re-election, and the Liberal Party base could also be important in his rivalry with other Democrats if he seeks the United States Senate nomination in 1992. Mr. Abrams has given the Liberal Party $22,500 in the last year, its largest single contribution. Mr. Cuomo, who has had strained relations with Liberal leaders, has been renominated by the Liberal Party but has not given it donations. Carol Bellamy, the Democratic-Liberal candidate for state comptroller, donated $1,500 to the Liberals.
Mr. Abrams's chief political adviser, Ethan Geto, acknowledged that the relationship with the Liberals "has significant political value for the future."
 
Criticism From Commission
 The Government Integrity Commission had criticized the fund-raising efforts of Mr. Cuomo, Mr. Abrams and Mr. Regan in soliciting contributions from state contractors, saying this created at least the appearance of impropriety. Mr. Regan has since since put a $4,000 limit on such contributions.
The records of contributions do not always reflect the total amount an individual or company may have steered to the campaign since they often do not include donations by company officers, their relatives, friends and subcontractors, hich are more difficult to trace. In other cases a contribution from a law firm, for example, could mask state business by its clients or an appointment of one of its partners to a state commission or board.
Officers and spokesmen for various companies listed among the contributors denied that they had been pressured to contribute or that their state contracts were contingent on contributions. Typical was the response of Robert Prieto, a senior vice president of Parsons, Brinckerhoff, who said: "We've actively supported the political process within the limits of the law. We never felt any pressure."
One state official, Mr. Tese, said, "I don't think I have to buy a job," adding that he made his money in investments and cable television.
The integrity commission's report said a donation did not have to involve a quid pro quo, which would be illegal, to raise conflict-of-interest questions.
The law firm of Bower & Gardner, for example, has donated $17,000 to Mr. Cuomo in the last 18 months and was singled out by Common Cause this week as a firm representing clients involved in environmental matters with the state. Another law firm once identified with Republicans, Rogers & Wells, has given the Democratic Governor $64,200 during his two terms.
The computer check of the cumulative records showed little has changed since the integrity commission demonstrated the strong correlation between state contracts and contributions at hearings and in a report last year.
The commission reported that 64 of 68 engineering firms on a Cuomo list of prospects to be solicited ended up contributing to the campaign and that all but 11 of the 64 had contracts with the State Transportation Department and the State Thruway Authority.
The commission said donors who were questioned said that while Cuomo solicitors did not directly link the donations to state business, "virtually all of the engineers thought it unwise to take a chance and not contribute."
The commission said Friends of Mario Cuomo, the Governor's fund-raising arm, "aggressively pursues" people and businesses "identifiable by virtue of their dealings with the state."

GRAPHIC: Table: The largest donors to Mario Cuomo's campaigns, totals from 1982 to the present. (sources: State Government Integrity Commission, candidate campaign finance reports) (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (60%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PARSONS BRINCKERHOFF QUADE & DOUGLAS INC (60%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; ETHICS; ELECTIONS, PUBLIC FINANCING OF; CONTRACTS PUBLIC CONTRACTING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (88%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); ETHICS (70%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); LEGISLATION (64%); BOND ISSUES (61%); BONDS (60%); CITIES (54%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: LYNN, FRANK; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



6 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
Politics of Rage Dominate Contest in Massachusetts

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
In this state where voters seem implacably angry, John R. Silber is the prophet of the politics of rage.
Once again, Tuesday night, the Democratic candidate for governor had his Republican opponent, William F. Weld, on the defensive, pounding away in their last debate. And once again, Mr. Weld seemed unable to seize the openings before him, to turn some of the Democrat's sometimes intemperate comments against him. 
 With six days until the election, the race is generally perceived here as being neck and neck, with Dr. Silber perhaps having the edge. In a poll published Tuesday in The Boston Globe, Dr. Silber led Mr. Weld, a former United States Attorney, 46 percent to 37 percent. The poll, of 600 likely voters, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.
It is possible, but by no means certain, that Mr. Silber's support could be greater than the polls show. In the primary election, surveys underestimated his strength, in part, some poll experts believe, because he cut such an abrasive figure that people did not want to admit to poll takers that they would vote for him.
But whatever the polls show, there is no mistaking the response to Dr. Silber, the president of Boston University. He is the No. 1 topic here, and his I'm-fed-up-with-business-as-usual theme strikes home in a state whose current Governor, Michael S. Dukakis, is widely blamed for an economic decline and state budget crisis.
"In a normal year when voters are angry they would throw out the party in power, the Democrats, and Weld would win," said George Bachrach, a former Democratic State Senator. "But John Silber's anger matches that of the voters so well that he has made a visceral connection with them that transcends normal politics."
"It doesn't seem to matter what Silber says or who he offends," Mr. Bachrach said. Indeed, Mr. Bachrach suggested, Dr. Silber's emotional appeal and his ability to avoid being hurt by seemingly impolitic utterances that might damage other candidates, are reminiscent of Ronald Reagan. But while President Reagan offered a message of optimism for the 1980's, Dr. Silber preaches a stern sermon of wrath for the economically leaner 1990's.
Tom Kiley, a Democratic political consultant, said, "Silber is unique; he has broken all the rules of politics. Candidates usually look for ways to ingratiate themselves with the electorate, but he has an ability to force to electorate to respond to him."
 
Wanting 'New Blood'
 James F. O'Brien, a 36-year-old union carpenter from Waltham, said, "I'm for him just to get some new blood in there. The politicians in there just keep getting re-elected by making promises that they don't keep. I like the way Silber just comes out and says what is on his mind."
Still, Dr. Silber has alienated a number of voters in groups that make up major parts of the Democratic Party -- liberals, environmentalists, feminists, blacks and homosexuals -- with remarks that in other years might have sunk his candidacy. His latest "Silber shocker," as his comments have come to be called, came last week when he said that "overweening materialism" on the part of two-career couples who put their offspring in child-care centers may constitute "child neglect."
Dr. Silber's thought was in keeping with his often-stated view that working women have been disruptive of the American family, though he frequently points out that his own mother, a teacher, had to work to support his family during the Great Depression.
"There is no question that we have a generation of neglected children," Dr. Silber said in a television interview. "We have a generation of abused children by women who have thought that a third-rate day care center was just as good as a first-rate home."
Lin F. Kelleher, a 33-year-old real estate broker from the Boston suburb of Arlington, reacted with outrage. She said she was a Democrat but would vote for Mr. Weld.
"There are a lot of women who do feel guilty about having children in day care," she said. "But to come out and say it, it burns me. He really hit women where it hurts."
 
Blurred Ideological Categories
 But despite Dr. Silber's remark, he led Mr. Weld by 10 points among women in the Globe poll.
Part of the explanation is that neither Dr. Silber nor Mr. Weld fits into easy ideological categories, with both men blurring the usual lines that divide liberal, moderate and conservative.
Dr. Silber is slight of stature, but speaks in a forceful, resonant voice, tinged with the accent of his native San Antonio, that seems to emanate from a larger person. Despite his comments on subjects like welfare mothers and black drug dealers that make him seem conservative, many of his positions are liberal. He opposes the death penalty, he favors strict gun control and he advocates an ambitious program of pre-school education to help working parents.
 Like Dr. Silber, Mr. Weld has never held public office, although he ran for State Attorney General in 1978. An Assistant Attorney General in the Reagan Administration, he has a genial personality and easy sense of humor, and often comes across to voters as moderate to liberal.
He is a strong supporter of abortion rights and the environment. But he has come out against control of semi-automatic rifles, and early on he tied himself to a tax-cutting ballot measure sponsored by a conservative group, the Citizens for Limited Taxation.
In the absence of clear philosophical differences between the two candidates, it has been this tax-reduction referendum that has become the main issue in the race. The initiative would roll back state taxes and fees to their 1988 level, forcing the next governor to cut roughly $1.2 billion out of the $13 billion budget in the first six months of next year and $2.4 billion more in 1992.
Initially, Mr. Weld, who was endorsed by The Globe in its Thursday issue, seemed to be on the popular side of the debate, with polls after the September primary showing both the initiative and Mr. Weld in the lead. But as the Massachusetts economy has continued to decline, with unemployment doubling in the past year to more than 6 percent, voters began to be anxious about the effects of such deep cuts on a broad range of state programs and services.
Dr. Silber has insisted that he favors the goal of the tax-cutting measure, but he argues that its formula is too rigid and would result in "fiscal meltdown." Instead, using the initials of Citizens for Limited Taxation, he has said, "I am C.L.T. with a brain," promising to carry out a more thoughtful and humane reduction of state government.
 
Questions of Personal Finance
 As he did Tuesday in the televised debate, Dr. Silber has used fear of the tax-cutting initiative as a way to keep liberal and moderate Democrats from defecting to Mr. Weld in large numbers. Democrats outnumber Republicans in Massachusetts by about 4 to 1.
When Mr. Weld tried to explain how he would put the drastic tax cuts into effect, Dr. Silber dismissed him like a school child. "Those numbers don't make any sense at all," he said sternly.
Mr. Weld's attacks on Dr. Silber, by contrast, seem unable to do any damage. He has pointed out that Dr. Silber managed to become a millionaire while president of Boston University, technically a public charity, earning more than $275,000 from the school last year and thereby being by far the highest-paid university president in the country. Dr. Silber's total income was $522,600 in 1989, according to figures released by the Silber campaign.
Dr. Silber has said that he made his money in an entirely legal manner and that his high salary reflects his accomplishments at the university.
Mr. Weld has also challenged Dr. Silber on why he did not file his 1989 Federal tax returns by Oct. 15, the deadline required by law. But even after a spokesman for the Internal Revenue Service said Dr. Silber was in error, Dr. Silber has continued to insist on his correctness in delaying his returns.
Dan Payne, another Democratic consultant, says that since the dominant issue in the campaign is bringing change to state government its outcome hinges on what kind of change voters most want. "Do they want a change in party, which Weld offers, or do they want a change in personality and style, which is Silber?" Mr. Payne asked.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John R. Silber campaigning for gobernor last week in Boston. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); William F. Weld, Republican candidate for Massachusetts governor, at a fund-raising event in Boston. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) (pg. D22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON GLOBE (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (85%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); BUDGETS (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; SILBER, JOHN R; WELD, WILLIAM F RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



7 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
Fierce Fight for Illinois Seat Pits Old Against New

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Walter Dudycz is a classic insurgent: an angry, underfinanced candidate, the son of immigrant parents, bursting with intermingled idealism and naivete, waging a door-to-door campaign backed by a volunteer organization.
The surprise is that he is a Republican, "the kind of candidate we almost never get," says Edward J. Rollins, co-chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, who helped to recruit Mr. Dudycz and considers him one of the party's three best prospects for defeating a Democratic incumbent in the House of Representatives in next week's midterm elections. 
 Frank Annunzio, the 13-term incumbent in question, is 75 years old. A onetime union official, he came up through the ranks of the formidable Democratic organization built by Richard J. Daley, and he has had only one real election fight in his career, created by redistricting in 1972.
The surprise is that he has mounted a tough, energetic bid for re-election, backed by slick direct-mail pieces and hard-hitting radio commercials put together by a team of experienced media advisers young enough to be his children. Mr. Annunzio has never been led in the private polls taken by both campaigns.
The campaign first drew national attention because of the turbulence in the savings and loan business, to which Mr. Annunzio has long had close connections.
But it has developed into a no-holds-barred clash between the old and the new, a competition for the allegiance of precisely those sorts of culturally conservative, economically more liberal voters whom Ronald Reagan attracted in the 1980's and whom the Republicans have to hold in the 1990's if they are to make any progress toward ending their minority status on Capitol Hill.
The battleground is the 11th Congressional District of Illinois, perhaps the most polyglot in the nation, which includes most of the far North Side of Chicago and a few suburbs near O'Hare Airport. On a single block of Lincoln Avenue, one of the district's main arteries, there are shops owned by Italian- , German- , Greek- , Korean- , Filipino- , Guatemalan- and Polish-Americans. The tidy side streets are lined with modest brick bungalows and low-rise apartment buildings.
Usually Democratic in local politics, the district has voted five successive times for the Republican candidate in Presidential contests.
Mr. Dudycz (pronounced DO-ditch), whose family came to the United States from the Ukraine after World War II, is a former Chicago policeman who now serves in the State Senate. He has built his career on resistance to taxes, and he drew wide attention last year when he barged into a student exhibit at the Art Institute of Chicago to pick up an American flag that had been spread on the ground.
 
Failure to Sound Alarm
 He has pounded away at Mr. Annunzio for having accepted campaign contributions from Charles H. Keating Jr. and other savings-and-loan executives. He has tried to make an issue of the fact that two of Mr. Annunzio's sons-in-law, including Kevin Tynan, his campaign manager, worked for the United States League of Savings Institutions. And he has argued that Mr. Annunzio, chairman of the House Banking Subcommittee on Financial Institutions Supervision, failed to sound the alarm in time about the emerging savings-and-loan debacle.
But the Congressman has fought back, explaining his long-term support for the industry as a service to working-class people who could buy houses only through savings and loan centers. He insists he always opposed deregulation, which opened the way to financial abuses, and he has led the attack on the role of Neil Bush, the President's son, in the collapse of the Silverado Banking, Savings and Loan Association in Colorado.
Mr. Annunzio has criticized Mr. Dudycz as a "double dipper," collecting pay for a part-time Cook County patronage job on days when records show that he was in the State Legislature in Springfield. The Republican says the records are faulty.
But what Mr. Annunzio has really been selling, at ward picnics and labor rallies, is the politics of the New Deal and the Fair Deal and the politics of constituent service.
"I'm going to win because I've been here 25 years, answering the letters, helping with problems, looking after senior citizens and consumers and working people," he said the other night at a 41st Ward rally straight out of 1960. It was held in a Polish-American club plastered with placards bearing the ethnic names of Democratic stalwarts, with a searchlight piercing the sky outside and a banjo trio inside playing "Happy Days Are Here Again."
 
'Lies and Terror Tactics'
 Introducing the candidate, Alderman Roman Pucinski, a silver-haired survivor of the old Daley days, told the crowd, "The people of Chicago resent the kind of lies and terror tactics used against Frank Annunzio."
Sometimes, Mr. Annunzio sounded dated, citing the Wagner Act, the Tennessee Valley Authority and the Boulder Dam -- all products of the 1930's -- as the kinds of things the Democratic Party did to help ordinary citizens. But sometimes he roused people to cheers, as when he defended his political heritage as a Chicago regular.
"These Republicans say that we're a machine," he shouted. "What the hell do you think they are, a knitting society, a sewing circle?"
Mr. Dudycz is hoping that the much-discussed backlash against incumbents will help him, and there is evidence of such feeling here. Mr. Tynan said he himself had been told several times, while out canvassing for his father-in-law, Mr. Annunzio: "Forget it. The hell with all the politicians."
 
'On the Wrong Track'
 "Washington is on the wrong track," Mr. Dudycz said after a morning of hand-shaking in grocery stores and a small electrical-goods plant. "Frank Annunzio embodies everything wrong there -- an arrogant, long-serving, big-city politician put in and sustained by bosses. If I win, if we can do it in Chicago, it will encourage little guys across the country. If I lose, we send a message that money talks, no matter how tarnished the incumbent is."
The 40-year-old Republican candidate, whom Mr. Annunzio dismisses as "the D-jerk," describes himself as "Joe Six-Pack, a guy who bites his nails, who wears cheap suits, whose wife hoses down the alley -- nothing special, just average, a guy who might be digging potatoes with a shovel in the Ukraine if his father had taken a left turn instead of a right turn."
Mr. Dudycz will be outspent by about $600,000 to $300,000. He is clearly no match for Mr. Annunzio in detailed knowledge of issues. But he is convinced that the savings-and-loan scandal, plus the budget battle in Washington, which he calls "a sloppy attempt at a bipartisan rape of the American people," plus his own following in the district, will make him that rarity in American politics, a candidate who beats an incumbent Congressman.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Frank Annunzio, a 13-term incumbent, is facing one of the few tough election challenges of his career in Chicago's 11th Congressional District. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ILLINOIS

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); REDISTRICTING (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LIBERALISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; ANNUNZIO, FRANK (REP); DUDYCZ, WALTER RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARNEY FRANK (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



8 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
The White House's policy on Iraq, in an eerie replay of the budget ordeal, took on an enigmatic quality, as the President and his chief of staff made public statements that seemed somewhat contradictory. Page A1
U.S. preparing U.N. draft on claims against Baghdad A12
Russian says Iraqi seemed "more disposed" to pact A12
Bush may veto sanctions for the spread of chemical weapons A12
Shiite factions agreed to a cease-fire in Lebanon after battling for three years to control the southern part of the nation. They also said they would allow army troops to deploy in a strategic region near Israel. A10
Israeli soldier jailed two months in Arab beating A11
D.E.A. to study claim of role by agent in Pan Am bombing A14
Cambridge Journal: As prince lingers, red carpet fades A18
Refugee camps in Czechoslovakia and Hungary have been set up to cope with a crush of Romanians, Russians and other Eastern Europeans who hoped to migrate farther west but face newly stiffened borders. A13
Berlin, the capital, fears for its future A13
 Warsaw journal: Poland's old cheerleader lands on his feet A4
Strife averted in Moldavia in protest against troops A7
India was relatively quiet as both Hindu militant organizations and the Government claimed victory in the confrontation Tuesday at a mosque in the holy city of Ayodhya. A3
A Chinese dissident was released after 16 months of detention, but he remains subject to some restrictions, his wife says. A3
A leading township figure resigned from his posts in a move which seemed to signal the beginning of the end for black township governments in South Africa. A9
 
NATIONAL A18-26, B10-11, D22-23
G.M. moved to close nine factories that employ tens of thousands of workers. The closings, which will cost G.M. billions of dollars, resulted in its biggest quarterly loss ever. A1
The appeal of John Silber, Democratic candidate for Massachusetts Governor, lies in the politics of rage. His I'm-fed-up-with-business-as-usual theme has left him in a tight race, despite the fact that he has never held a political office. A1
Silber grabs attention but now all the backing D23
The race for Senator of Hawaii features two former schoolteachers in a tight but polite contest. The results may teach a lesson about the future of the politically remote and inbred, but fast-changing island state. D22
A race for an Illinois House seat pits a 13-term Democratic incumbent against an angry Republican insurgent in a fierce battle for voters who tend to be culturally conservative and economically more liberal. D23
The political advertising in 1990 is generally negative, it responds to an attack and its themes are taxes and class warfare. A Congressional race in Rhode Island offers an emblematic example. D22
Lead-contaminated water is drunk by hundreds of thousands of children at schools, Federal auditors warn, fouryears after the Government imposed tough rules to limit the amount of lead in drinking water. A1
The McDonald's hamburger box, a well-known plastic package that has become a symbol of the garbage crisis, will be phased out, people informed with the decision say. A1
A major college admissions test, the S.A.T., will be revised. The changes will put more emphasis on reading skills, move the exam away from multiple-choice answers and permit calculators to be used. A1
U.S. judge drops school bias suit A19
Sections of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline are to be examined as a result of allegations that workers checking for rust and cracks lacked training, used drugs and alcohol on the job and filed inaccurate test results. A18
Prisons are placing tougher controls on their inmates' behavior, and as a result they have become more secure, experts say. But critics say the harsher treatment could backfire when convicts are released to the streets. A18
Four jurors biased toward Barry, judge says A26
Washington Talk: Moving to slow the revolving door A24
Tissue from aborted fetus is tested in rape case A21
 
 REGIONAL B1-9
State contracts and large donations to the campaign funds of Governor Cuomo over his eight years in office were found to have a close correlation in a computerized study. A1
In New Haven, a shrill fight for a seat in Congress rages B1
The Daily News may be able to return to a semblance of its former self as a growing number of striking newsroom employees are returning. But management is struggling to find outlets for the paper. A1
News's owners speak softly but take a hard line B2
Questions arise on whether publisher is truly in charge B2
Board of Education budget plans to meet City Hall's target of a $94 million reduction were submitted, but the board suggested that the cuts would have catastrophic effects on the school system. B1
Unified Albany supports spending cuts to close gap B3 New Jersey's new school-finance law was the focus of angry talk and resentment at the opening of a three-day convention of the state's school superintendents and school board members. B1
The dearth of public lavatories in New York City has prompted a lawsuit by homeless people who contend that the failure of the city and transit officials to provide toilets constitutes a public nuisance. B1
Advocates for homeless fault housing plan B4
Two homosexuals say U.S. agents assaulted them B3
Police investigating death of baby unhooked from vital tubeB3
U.S. health care soars, but not as much as in New York B11
Five high school students accused of raping girl, 15 B8
Minister accused of stealing supplies at New York agency B8
Ninth game of chess match ends in another draw B9
 
Business Digest D1
 
The Home Section
Nonwhite dolls are a growing family C1
So long faux: new materials woo designers C1
Fashion's spring mood: simple to grand C1
In style race, individuality lives C10
 
Arts/Entertainment
Beijing opera in crisis at 200 C21
Dispute threatens New York filming C21
American champion of the gamelan C21
New chairman for Public Library C25
Film: Antigone in dance C28
Music: London Classical Players C28
Dance: James Waring retrospective C17
Carbone 14 in "Le Dortoir" C25
Word and Image: Exploring Presidential power C26
Peter Jennings on abortion C28
 
Health Page B12
Personal Health
Old disease emerges as a factor in AIDS spread
 
Obituaries D24
Harold B. Smith, a former chairman of a tool company
 
Sports
Baseball: Huge deal for Daulton B13
Yanks bearish on market B15
Basketball: Nets can't hide truth B17
Column: Anderson on Ismail B13
Football: College Notebook B14
Like old times at Georgia Tech B14
Hockey: Rangers rout Kings B13
Looking like a million B15
Horse Racing: Reflection as Aqueduct opens B15
Marathon: New study on women B13
Runners have no fear B13
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials A28
How to rattle Iraq
Name-calling on crime
WIC: it saves lives and money
Judicial choices
Letters A28
Anna Quindlen: Banning the A-word A29
William Safire: The second front A29
Martin Mayer: And now, a Bahamas bailout A29
Barnett R. Rubin: Pakistan -- no stamp of approval A29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); POLAND (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); LEBANON (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICS (77%); ARMIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); PLANT CLOSINGS (62%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (61%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (53%); 

PERSON: JOHN ROBERT SILBER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



9 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 General Motors moved to shut down as many as nine factories that employ tens of thousands of workers. The closings, which will cost billions of dollars, resulted in a $1.98 billion loss, the company's biggest ever. [Page A1.]
The plastic McDonald's hamburger box may be on its way out, a packaging dinosaur that became a symbol of the garbage crisis and could not survive into a less wasteful age. [A1.]
Bethlehem Steel's quarterly income fell 78 percent. The company was stung by lower steel prices and higher costs. [D1.]
Toyota is lecturing its American suppliers, telling them to pay more attention to quality and drive their costs down. [D1.]
The Travelers Corporation formally began writing down the value of some troubled real estate loans, and set aside $650 million for losses. [D4.]
McCaw Cellular reported a loss, citing interest costs and other expenses related to its purchase of a controlling Lin stake. [D5.]
Wertheim Schroeder will cease operations as a primary dealer in Government securities, effective immediately. [D16.]
Kodak reported a loss of $206 million after taking a charge to pay $909.5 million to Polaroid. [D21.]
Michelin said it was establishing a North American holding company and laying off as many as 900 salaried workers. [D4.]
The Daily News won over more striking newsroom employees, including four sportswriters who crossed picket lines. [A1.] At the Tribune Company, the message is clear: the owners of The Daily News plan to hold on. [B2.]
 
 THE ECONOMY
The economy continues to weaken, particularly in retailing, but apparently not to the point that would call for energetic relaxation of monetary policy, a Fed survey indicated. [D1.]
Many taxpayers who have not had to worry about the alternative minimum tax may find themselves trapped by it in future years. [D1.]
Consumer spending jumped 1.1 percent in September, the Government said, outpacing a 0.5 percent growth in personal income and contributing to the lowest savings rate in three years. [D2.]
Higher oil prices are driving up farm operating expenses at the fastest pace in eight years, the Agriculture Dept. said. [D2.]
Orders received by U.S. factories rose a scant 0.1 percent in September, the Commerce Department said, as demand for durable goods like cars fell sharply. [D3.]
Michael Milken "committed serious crimes in addition to his admitted crimes," prosecutors argued in a memo. [D3.]
 
 MARKETS
Stocks seesawed in quiet trading amid new signs that a recession could be on the way. The Dow fell 5.69, to 2,442.33. [D10.]
Oil prices rallied late in the day to move above $35 a barrel in a third straight erratic session. Crude gained 69 cents, to $35.23. [D5.]
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher and interest rates fell in light trading, as traders chose to concentrate on rumors rather than reality. [D16.]
Fears of political upheaval in Tokyo pushed the yen down, while the dollar gained in thin trading. [D17.]
Soybean futures prices rebounded from three-month lows in what amounted to a market maneuver by grain dealers. [D17.]
 
 TODAY'S COLUMNS
The drought afflicting California is starting to send an uneasy rumble through the municipal bond market. Market Place. [D1.]
Pathe's attempt to buy MGM/UA has been a series of missed deadlines, botched financings, lawsuits and second thoughts. Talking Deals. [D2.]
United Air Lines has big ambitions. So does Adam M. Aron, its new senior vice president for marketing. Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (83%); C (BMV) (83%); 8710 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (83%); TRAVELERS CORP (70%); AMERICAN HOLDING CO (68%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (85%); HOLDING COMPANIES (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RECESSION (78%); STRIKES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAST FOOD (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (76%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); MONETARY POLICY (63%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



10 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Expected to Drop Plastic Burger Box

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
The plastic McDonald's hamburger box may be on its way out, a packaging dinosaur that could not survive in a less wasteful age.
The rugged little box, which was a design innovation that became one of the nation's best-known packages before turning into a symbol of the garbage crisis, will be phased out by the McDonald's Corporation, according to people informed of the decision. 
 Company officials at headquarters in Oak Brook, Ill., declined to comment. But Lee Masters of Golin Harris, McDonald's public relations agency, said yesterday that the company "plans a major news announcement tomorrow regarding the environment."
A decision to abandon the plastic foam container would be an abrupt about-face for the company, which for years has stoutly defended the need to use plastic in its restaurants. McDonald's, which operates 8,000 restaurants in this country, said the foam helps hold in heat, protects the food from contamination and resists grease stains better than paperboard boxes.
But environmental advocates say the production process generates pollutants and note that the box has a useful life of only a few minutes, while it lingers for decades when it is littered or dumped in a landfill. Plastics tend to take longer for the environmnent to break down than things made from paper or wood.
As towns and cities enacted bans on containers that are not biodegradable or cannot be recycled, McDonald's has come under pressure to change its packaging. In response, it has participated in limited efforts to recycle its plastic and was close to an announcement that its current recycling program would be extended nationwide.
But some members of the plastics industry have questioned the economic viability of gathering and processing the material, which, because of its structure, is high in volume but low in value. And environmentalists have questioned the value of demonstration projects, asserting that unless there is a market for the reclaimed product and the process is economically sound, the recycled material has little value. Similarly, they say printing the recycling symbol on paper packaging, as McDonald's has done, is misleading unless the material is actually being recycled.
 
 The Biggest User
 Though most fast-food chains use plastic foam in some form, McDonald's, as the nation's largest chain, is by far the biggest user of these materials.
In Miami, a spokeswoman at the Burger King Corporation, a main competitor of McDonald's, said that the restaurant chain has used mainly paper packaging since its founding in 1954. The exception, polystyrene coffee cups, is in the process of being replaced by thick-paper cups, she said.
Earlier this year, McDonald's said it would spend $100 million to help create markets for recycled materials. It said the materials would be used in building and remodeling its restaurants.
 
A Six-Month Study
 In August, it announced an unusual joint effort with the Environmental Defense Fund to conduct a six-month study into ways to reduce the solid waste generated at its 11,000 restaurants worldwide. The director of the fund, a membership group that uses aggressive legal tactics to pursue its environmental goals, said the hamburger container was one item the group planned to look at closely.
Despite these efforts, the company has remained the target of environmental advocates. On Monday, a group called the Earth Action Network broke the windows and scattered supplies at a McDondald's restaurant in San Francisco to protest the company's environmental policies.
According to Jeanne Wirka, a specialist in solid wastes with the Environmental Action Foundation in Washington, there are two major environmental disadvantages to the McDonald's hamburger box.
 
Suspected Carcinogen
 "The polystyrene production process is polluting and the styrene monomer is a suspected human carcinogen," she said. Like most plastics, polystyrene is made of long chains of a repeating molecule, known as a monomer.
"The other is that the volume of the container is excessive compared to a flexible wrapping," Ms. Wirka said. "And for people who eat in the restaurant, the useful life is only as long as it takes them to walk from the counter to sit down and eat."
A move to abandon foam packaging would come as McDonald's is experimenting with radical changes in location, decor, food and service, trying to find the right adult-oriented combinations. The company and its rivals are acting because the population is becoming older and youngsters scarcer, making adults the customers of choice in the hotly competitive fast-food industry.

GRAPHIC: Photo: a McDonald's hamburger (Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (96%); BKW (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (96%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (96%); BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP; BURGER KING CORP

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; PLASTICS; LITTERING; LANDFILL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; PAPER AND PULP MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (90%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (89%); POLYSTYRENE FOAM PRODUCTS (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); PLASTICS (89%); POLYSTYRENE (78%); PAPERBOARD (78%); LANDFILLS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); PLASTIC PRODUCTS MFG (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



11 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Farm Expenses Increase At Fastest Pace in 8 Years

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Higher oil prices resulting from the Mideast crisis are driving up farm operating expenses at the fastest pace in eight years, an Agriculture Department report said today.
New quarterly figures through October showed farm expenses jumped an average of 2.2 percent from July, when such figures were last available. The expense index was up 5.6 percent from October 1989. 
 "A sharp rise in fuel prices since July contributed most to the largest quarterly index increase since January 1982," the report said.
The monthly report by the department's Agricultural Statistics Board also said that prices farmers get for raw products declined seven-tenths of 1 percent from September to October but still averaged 1.4 percent more than a year earlier.
 
Prices Mixed
 "Decreases in the prices of broilers, milk, corn and apples were partially offset by higher prices for hogs, tomatoes, strawberries and eggs," the board said in its preliminary report.
Prices of most food and feed grains were down from September, although higher prices were reported for oats, rice and durum wheat. Soybean and sunflower prices declined, while peanut prices increased.
"The October all-hog price increased moderately over September, while the all-cattle price was up slightly," the report said.
Department economists say consumer food prices will rise an average of 5 percent to 7 percent this year, compared with a 5.8 percent gain in 1989, the most since 1981. There has been no official forecast for 1991.
 
Farm Income Expected to Rise
 The net cash income of farmers in 1990 has been forecast at a record in the range of $59 billion to $63 billion, up about 10 percent from last year. The previous high was $57.2 billion in 1988.
Net cash income is the amount nationally that farmers have left from gross cash income in a calendar year after deducting cash expenses. It includes government payments and proceeds from crops grown previously but sold during the year.
In another method of agency accounting, which includes changes in inventories, depreciation and other allowances during the year, 1990 net farm income may be in the range of $47 billion to $52 billion, compared with $47 billion last year.
 
Drop in Price Index for All Crops
 Based on preliminary figures that could be revised next month, the October price index for all crops was down 1.6 percent from September and averaged 4.7 percent less than a year earlier.
The October index for livestock and products was down 1.2 percent from September but still averaged 5.6 percent more than in October 1989.
Milk prices, reflecting stepped-up production, dropped 60 cents from September, to an October average of $13.60 a 100 pounds. The October price was down $1.20 from a year earlier.
The all-fruit price index in October was down 6.4 percent from September and 8.7 percent from the October 1989 average. Lower prices for apples, oranges and grapefruit were mostly responsible for the decline from September.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Farm prices from 5/89 to 10/90 (Source: Agriculture Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; PRICES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PRICE INCREASES (94%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); AGRICULTURE (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (89%); MILK (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); LIVESTOCK FEED (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



12 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: G.M. PLANS TO SHUT UP TO 9 FACTORIES; LOSES $1.98 BILLION

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 31

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation, acknowledging that it would not soon recapture lost ground in a glutted market and wary of harder times in the industry, moved today to close up to nine factories that employ tens of thousands of workers. The closings, which will cost G.M. billions of dollars, resulted in its biggest quarterly loss ever.
G.M., the nation's largest company, said it would close four assembly plants permanently and established financial provisions that made the closing of five more likely over the next three years. Because of the enormous cost of shutting down the factories and laying off workers, the company reported a loss of $1.98 billion. 
 That figure almost quadruples G.M.'s previous record loss, $565 million in the third quarter of 1980. Taken with the worst quarterly performance at the Ford Motor Company since the 1982 recession and a $214 million loss at the Chrysler Corporation, it serves as a signal that the longstanding problems in the domestic automotive industry have not been cured.
 
More Weakness Ahead
 Although the American companies have improved their cars and made their factories more productive, their dealers have been forced to offer sharp discounts, in the form of cash rebates averaging more than $1,000 a car, that cut into profits. Industry experts say car and truck sales, which were strong until two years ago, will weaken over the next year because of an expected recession, but they also said G.M.'s move today would have been made even if the economy were in better shape.
Japanese auto makers, whose growth has been the biggest reason for G.M.'s decline, have also run into problems in the United States market lately and have been forced into discounting, but despite those problems, analysts said, they continued to gain market share. The Japanese companies' share of the United States market has grown to 23.5 percent from 17.8 percent a decade ago, while G.M.'s has fallen to 36.1 percent from 44.4 percent, according to Ward's Automotive Reports.
Longer term, some experts say Detroit's progress in eliminating unneeded capacity, as evidenced by G.M.'s move today, and in improving quality may be enough for a comeback. "The question is whether this is the final turn before G.M. becomes lean and mean, or is it more of the glacial retreat that characterized the company throughout the 1980's," said James Womack, research director of the automotive study project of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The move comes a day after G.M. announced that it would idle 16 plants at various times over the next two months in hopes of making no more products than they can expect to sell. Most of the 16 are plants that G.M. intends to operate over the long term. The auto maker operates more than 100 plants in North America.
In announcing its third-quarter loss, G.M. said it would have earned $109 million on relatively strong sales abroad and gains by its nonautomotive subsidiaries, but was forced to reduce profit by $2.1 billion, after taxes, to cover the expense of shutting down the plants it no longer needs.
G.M.'s action formalized the shutdown of four assembly plants in Framingham, Mass., Lakewood, Ga., Pontiac, Mich., and Leeds, Mo., which had been indefinitely closed during the past three years. The $2.1 billion charge against earnings, which amounted to $3.3 billion before taxes, also provides for the contemplated shutdown of five assembly and components plants -- two in Pontiac, Mich., and one each in Scarborough, Ont., Lordstown, Ohio, and Flint, Mich. -- over the next three years. But the auto maker declined to acknowledge officially that shutdowns at those factories were likely. The five plants employ about 9,000 workers, and G.M. has notified them that it has no plan to replace the vehicle models they build with new models.
G.M.'s revenue in the latest period was $30.8 billion, up 6.9 percent from $28.8 billion a year earlier. Last year G.M. earned $517 million, or 72 cents a share, in the third quarter.
A G.M. spokesman said the company had not decided whether to shut down any of the five plants and would publicly announce any shutdowns only after workers had been notified. A United Auto Workers official said, "There aren't any surprises here." The union's latest three-year contract, ratified by G.M. workers last month, contains more than $4 billion in income security benefits that assure workers a paycheck even if their plants are closed.
 
 Promise to the Union
 Under G.M.'s 1987 labor contract, the company promised the union that it would not close any more plants. That is why, analysts believe, the four idled plants were not written off on G.M.'s books until now.
G.M. officials said privately that the company's top executives were reluctant to spell out their plans for the five additional plants, fearing a repeat of what they perceived as a huge public relations black eye in November 1986, when the auto maker announced the shutdown of 11 North American plants. That move temporarily focused the public debate over the declining competitiveness of the nation's manufacturing companies on G.M.
From the perspective of G.M.'s executives, the shutdowns of older plants show that the company is serious about increasing productivity. As it has closed plants, G.M. has invested billions in new plants, including the Saturn manufacturing complex in Spring Hill, Tenn., which has just begun producing cars.
 
 Too Much Capacity
 Nevertheless, for the last decade G.M. has operated with too many people and too much plant capacity for the number of cars and trucks it was selling in the United States. Although this reflected G.M.'s optimism that it could it regain its former market position, the strategy was expensive, and it also meant that the auto maker was often producing too many vehicles.
Robert C. Stempel, who took office as G.M. chairman in August, has said since 1988 that his goal was to match plant capacity to sales and run all its plants at capacity by the end of 1992.
The redeeming features of G.M.'s latest financial results were strong results, announced yesterday, by its General Motors Acceptance Corporation finance subsidiary, GM Hughes Electronics subsidiary and Electronic Data Systems Corporation unit.
Underscoring the difficulties that lie ahead for domestic auto makers, Standard & Poor's warned its clients today that the credit ratings for the Big Three could be reduced in coming months because of eroding market conditions. The credit-rating company downgraded the senior debt of Ford and Chrysler by one notch in June.
G.M., Ford and Chrysler and their subsidiaries had outstanding debt totaling $200 billion as of Sept. 30.

GRAPHIC: Charts: Quarterly net earning for the Big Three, in billions of dollars. (source: Company reports); Share of American market for cars and light trucks. (source: Ward's Automotive Reports) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); COMPANY REPORTS ; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); SALES REBATES (67%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



13 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Lin Takeover Cited in McCaw Loss

BYLINE: REUTERS

DATELINE: KIRKLAND, Wash., Oct. 31

 BODY:
McCaw Cellular Communications Inc., the nation's largest cellular telephone company, today reported a loss for the third quarter, citing interest costs and other expenses related to its purchase of a controlling stake in the Lin Broadcasting Corporation.
In March, McCaw paid $3.4 billion for 52 percent of Lin, which also reported a loss in the third quarter. Both companies said income excluding interest payments, depreciation and other items related to acquisitions grew strongly in the period.
 
Revenues Double
 McCaw, based in Kirkland, Wash., said it lost $80 million in the quarter, compared with a loss of $44.9 million in the 1989 period. Helped in part by the acquisition of the Lin stake, revenues more than doubled to $280.5 million, from $129.7 million in the comparable period last year. 
 McCaw owns or has stakes in cellular systems in more than 100 United States markets.
Lin, based in New York, reported a third-quarter loss of $5.8 million, in contrast to a profit of $24.6 million, or 46 cents a share, in the 1989 period. Sales grew nearly 54 percent, to $94.9 million, from $61.7 million.
Lin owns interests in cellular phone properties in New York, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Dallas and Houston and operates seven television stations.
The shares of cellular phone companies have dropped sharply in recent months as the weakening economy has cooled demand.
Today, Lin shares fell $1, to $43.25, in over-the-counter trading, and McCaw fell 37.5 cents, to $11.50.
McCaw took on a large amount of debt to finance the Lin deal. Excluding debt-related interest and depreciation and amortization costs, McCaw said income from operations soared more than five times the 1989 quarter's level to $89.3 million, from $17.1 million.
Its interest expense nearly tripled to $143.3 million, from $56.8 million a year ago.
Lin said cash flow on its cellular operations jumped 80.9 percent to $46.3 million, from $25.6 million.
It had overall interest expense of $36.8 million in the period, compared with none a year ago. The charges stemmed from the McCaw deal and transactions with Metromedia Inc. that were completed in the quarter, a Lin spokesman, Donald Guthrie, said.
Several special items affected results at each company.
Lin recorded a pretax gain of $15.4 million on the sale of a 1 percent interest in a Philadelphia cellular system to Metromedia. Results also reflected its purchase of a 48 percent interest in a New York City cellular system from Metromedia for cash and preferred stock.
McCaw benefited from a $41.4 million tax gain in the quarter and had a pretax gain on asset sales of $9.8 million, compared with a $17.4 million gain in the 1989 quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCAW (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%); DALLAS, TX, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (95%); LIN BROADCASTING CORP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCCAW CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS INC

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (93%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (67%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



14 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1801 words

HEADLINE: Revisions Adopted in College Entrance Tests

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Substantial revisions of the college admissions tests taken each year by more than one million pencil-chewing students were approved today. The changes will put more emphasis on reading skills, move the exams away from multiple-choice answers and, for the first time, permit calculators to be used.
But the College Board, a nonprofit organization that sponsors the tests, stopped short of more sweeping changes, like mandatory essay questions, that had been under consideration in the exams. The tests, the Scholastic Aptitude Test and the Achievement Tests, have been known to generations of students as "the S.A.T.'s." 
 Today's eighth graders will be the first class to take the new tests when they become high school juniors in the spring of 1994.
 
Changing the Emphasis?
 Educators who have worked for more than three years on the revisions say they will reduce the effectiveness of outside coaching companies and will emphasize to high school educators around the country that test-taking is not as important as reading and writing.
For months, word has been leaking out of a fundamental restructuring that would bring the S.A.T.'s out from under accusations that they are inaccurate and obsolescent. Donald M. Stewart, president of the College Board, and Gregory Anrig, president of the Educational Testing Service, which designs and administers the tests, have talked freely for years about how important it was to substantially revise them.
In the past three years, sample tests, including the written essay and math computations, were adminstered to 100,000 students, and the proposed changes were reviewed by more than 6,000 experts. The studies cost millions, and many observers believed the board was fully committed to the proposals, including mandatory essays.
 
Criticism From Minorities
 But in the end severe criticism, especially from minority groups who believed a mandatory essay would put them at a disadvantage, helped to kill the proposal, as did the cost of administering and scoring the essays.
Some of those gathered at the meeting today were surprised at the comparatively modest scope of change, which they said must have been a disappointment to Mr. Stewart and the board.
"If he's not embarrassed, he should be," said Robert Schaeffer, an educational consultant who opposes standardized tests.
But Mr. Stewart showed no sign of being let down by today's vote. He and other officials said the changes will improve the test and help raise standards in high schools across the country.
"Taken as a whole, these changes are designed to send positive signals to our schools, to reinforce sound curriculum in the high schools," said Derek Bok, the president of Harvard and co-chairman of a panel that reviewed the proposed changes. Mr. Bok said the revisions would make them "a more versatile set of tests serving a more diverse group of people."
 
Some See Cosmetic Changes
 But those who have long asserted that the tests inaccurately assessed student ability and were heavily biased against women and minority groups immediately attacked the changes as being little more than cosmetic.
"The test is not going to be improved in terms of predictability for college performance because it has basically not changed," said Cinthia Schuman, executive director of the National Center for Fair & Open Testing, a nonprofit group in Cambridge, Mass., that has often led the opposition to the tests. Nor, she said, will the changes correct the bias against women and minorities.
The tests are used, along with other factors, to evaluate applications to college and to grant scholarships. But they have become far more than just an educational touchstone. Although they were not designed to be used in such ways, scores often become reflections of a school's quality or a selling point, rattled off by real estate brokers, emphasizing the merits of a particular school district.
 
Other Tests Affected
 The changes will also affect two other tests administered by the College Board. They are the Preliminary Scholastic Aptitude Test, given to high school students as a sort of prelude to the Scholastic Aptitude Test, and the National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test. Both are similar to the Scholastic Aptitude Test.
College Board officials described the changes approved today as substantial, but they insisted they were not made in response to criticism. Rather, they said, the changes are intended to improve the tests' reliability and to more accurately reflect the increasing diversity of students and what is being taught today.
The decision today also adds Japanese and Chinese to the list of languages in which optional parts of the tests may be taken and changes the names from the Scholastic Aptitude Test and Achievement Tests to Scholastic Assessment Test I and Scholastic Assessment Test II, respectively. The aptitude test is meant to gauge verbal and mathematical ability. The achievement exams, which not all colleges require, deal with specific subjects.
The most significant change is in the aptitude test's mathematics section, where problems have been added in which students, using calculators if they wish, figure out the answer instead of having a a list of options from which to chose.
The number of these problems will remain small -- no more than 15 out of about 60 items -- but it underscores a greater emphasis toward problem solving and individual thinking.
 
More Time to Think
 The verbal part of the new S.A.T. will also be altered substantially. The section asking for opposites of various words will be dropped and replaced by an expanded part on critical reading, in which students must read a passage of literature and answer multiple-choice questions about it.
Over all, nervous test-takers might feel a little less pressure because there will be slightly fewer questions to be answered in slightly more time. Twenty minutes will be added to the aptitude test, which now lasts 2 hours 30 minutes.
However most answers will still have to be picked from a list and filled in with a No. 2 lead pencil, and the aptitude test scores will be based on the same 200-to-800 scale as the current test.
While Mr. Bok and Mr. Stewart stressed the added focus on reading and writing skills, they also said a portion of the current test devoted to written English would be dropped in 1994.
But by then there will be a written essay segment in the optional achievement tests because they measure what a student has learned in different subject areas, as opposed to predicting his ability to do college work, as in the standard verbal and mathematics part.
 
Communications Skills
 The 20-minute written essay, in addition to the multiple-choice auestions, will not require specialized knowledge, officials said, but is intended to test a student's ability to communicate effectively. Factors such as grammar and clarity of expression, as well as soundness of logic, will affect scores.
Until today, there had been wide speculation that the revisions would include a mandatory English essay in the standard S.A.T. Confidential memos between members of the revisions panel indicated that the essay was being seriously considered at least through last July.
Several educators, especially in California, had opposed the essay on the grounds that it would have put foreign-born students at a disadvantage. The speaker of the California Assembly, Willie L. Brown, Jr., had warned the College Board that the state would consider dropping the S.A.T. from use at the University of California.
In recent years, California has had an influx of immigrants, particulary from Asia.
 
Decision Is Explained
 Robert McCabe, president of Miami-Dade Community College in Florida and chairman of the board of trustees of the College Board, said that because of the possible implications, and for financial reasons, the essay was dropped from consideration.
Had the essay been included, it would have meant that between 1.3 million and 2 million essays would have had to be scored, not by machines but by high school and college teachers. Instead, it is estimated that about 100,000 students will take the optional writing essay.
Even as an option to help admissions officers, the essay could still put foreign-born students at a disadvantage, officials said. But the achievement tests already contain portions in more than a dozen foreign languages, and the board today approved adding Chinese and Japanese to the list.
A number of minority interest groups joined the National Center for Fair & Open Testing in a letter calling on the College Board not to implement the revisions. The groups, which signed the letter before today's vote by the board, include the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, the Asian Legal Defense and Education Fund and the Center for Women Policy Studies. Critics said the changes did not address the fundamental bias inherent in the test and predicted that girls would continue to score on average about 60 points below boys on the aptitude portion, even though their high school and college grades are better.
 
Economic Bias Is Charged
 They also said that the changes will exacerbate an economic bias because students who cannot afford to buy calculators will not do as well as students who use them. Students who can afford to pay for special coaching also will still have an advantage, the critics say.
Although Mr. Bok said the new test, with its essays and math problems would be harder to coach, professionals disagreed.
"I can teach this tomorrow," said John S. Katzman, president of The Princeton Review, a company that coaches 35,000 students a year. "It's the same test."
 
THE OLD TEST: All Multiple Choice
 
A baseball team has won 10 games and lost 5 games. If the team wins the next k games, it will have won 80 percent of all the games it played. What is the value of k?
 
(A) 2
(B) 3
(C) 6
(D) 8
(E) 10
 
THE NEW TEST: Some Open Answers, Optional Essays
 
Martin and Alice buy newspapers for $0.20 each and sell them for $0.25 each. If at the end of one week, Martin made a profit of $12.60 and Alice made a profit of $18.75, how many more papers did Alice sell than Martin? (Fill in answer at right.)
 
ESSAY: "People seldom stand up for what they truly believe; instead they merely go along with popular view."
Assignment: Do you agree or disagree with this statement? Write an essay in which you support your opinion with specific examples from history, contemporary affairs, literature and personal observation.
source: Educational Testing Service
 
The Answers
The answers to the sample Scholastic Aptitude Test mathematics questions on page A1 are:
 
Old test: E
New test: 123

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about revisions in the Scholastic Aptitude Test and the Scholastic Achievement Tests given by the College Board referred incorrectly to a proposal to rename them. The proposal, to call them both Scholastic Assessment Tests, has not yet been adopted.

GRAPHIC: Photo:
David Gardner, left, president of the University of California, and Derek Bok, president of Harvard University, in Boston, where they announced support yesterday for revisions of the Scholastic Aptitude Test. They were co-chairmen of a panel that reviewed the changes. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) (pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (55%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (84%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLLEGE BOARD

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SCHOLASTIC APTITUDE TEST (SAT); CALCULATORS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY J W STEWART (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



15 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
BUSH INTENSIFIES A WAR OF WORDS AGAINST THE IRAQIS

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Early this morning, President Bush paused on his way to a political fund-raising breakfast in Virginia to declare that he had "had it" with Iraq's treatment of American hostages and diplomats.
"The Kuwaiti Embassy is being starved," Mr. Bush said of the United States Embassy in Kuwait, where a few diplomats have stayed during the Iraqi occupation as a symbol of American resolve. "The people out there are not being resupplied. The American flag is flying over the Kuwait embassy, and our people inside are being starved by a brutal dictator. 
 "Do you think I'm concerned about it?" the President went on. "You're darn right I am. And what I'm going to do about it? Let's just wait and see. Because I have had it with that kind of treatment of Americans, and I know others feel that way."
 
Sununu's Emphasis Different
 At the same time that the President was drawing this hard line against Saddam Hussein, his chief of staff, John H. Sununu, was on a morning news show declaring that Mr. Bush was "still committed to making sure he does everything on the diplomatic front to avoid hostilities."
In an eerie replay of the budget ordeal, the President and his advisers are talking in different voices, sending different messages and moving back and forth between opposing positions -- sometimes at the same moment.
Some Administration policy makers today privately conceded that they were as confused as the Congressional leaders who met with President Bush on Tuesday about the signals the White House is trying to send and the direction in which Mr. Bush is trying to move.
"It's the budget mess all over again -- flip-flops, a message out of control and nobody in charge," a top official said.
 
Bush's and Baker's Strategy
 In recent days, Mr. Bush and his Secretary of State, James A. Baker 3d, have gradually escalated the verbal barrage against Mr.Hussein as a way of underlining the threat of force.
Such a plan served three functions: It was a way of trying to force the Iraqi President to believe that his choices are to stay in Kuwait and die or to leave and have his Government survive. It was a way of preparing the American public for a confrontation, if there is to be one. And it also served a political purpose by trying to redirect the public's attention in the week before elections away from the budget battle, showcasing the slumping President in an area of strength and offering Republican candidates a better issue than taxes and the economy.
But while the tougher talk was supposed to scare Mr. Hussein, it was not supposed to cause Congress, the American public and the press to assume that the Administration was leaning further toward an offensive military action.
It was a delicate line, and some Administration officials now express fear that Mr. Bush may have gone too far on the bellicose side today, a day after Congressional leaders warned him to move cautiously and to avoid provocations against Mr. Hussein as a pretext for taking military action.
Administration officials said that the President's remarks were not coordinated or planned in advance between the State Department and the White House, or even within the White House. They confessed that they really had no idea why Mr. Bush had said what he did, except that in his eagerness to shift the subject of the public debate from the budget imbroglio to foreign policy, he went a bit far.
"We seem to be zigzagging because sometimes it's less a matter of a game plan and more a matter of the President's moods," a White House official said.
 
Little Enthusiasm From Congress
 The President's approach is a high-risk strategy, according to Middle East experts and officials involved in Persian Gulf policy making. The lukewarm reception that Mr. Bush received on Tuesday after briefing Congressional leaders showed that there is still no consensus for going to war against Iraq. The more the President raises the specter of war and does not do anything about it, the more time for the public and Congress to debate the question and argue against it.
Tonight, Mr. Bush's aides tried to tamp down speculation that the military option loomed larger. "Unfortunately, there's an air of imminent activity here that is not justified," the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said.
If the President did not want to imply that he was losing patience with the economic sanctions and thinking more about a military strike, Mr. Fitzwater was asked, why did he use a phrase like "I've had it?"
"It may not be bad if those words get people's attention," the press secretary replied. "This is a very serious problem that could have very significant ramifications at any point. There are a lot of flashpoints ahead, a lot of possible provocations related to the hostages and the embassy. The President wants to refocus national attention on this issue and get people ready for any eventuality."
 
Iraqi Envoy Is Conciliatory
 At a news conference in Washington today, the Iraqi Ambassador, Mohammed al-Mashat said: "We seek to avoid bloodshed. We'd like to establish good relations with the United States." Without being specific, he said that Iraq was ready to negotiate all issues that are destabilizing the Middle East.
Mr. Mashat also released a purported Kuwaiti intelligence document that said that the Central Intelligence Agency and Kuwait had agreed late last year "to take advantage of the deteriorating economic situation in Iraq in order to put pressure on that country's Government to delineate our common border."
A spokesman for the C.I.A. called the document "a total fabrication" by Iraq.
On Tuesday, the lawmakers told Mr. Bush in strong terms that he should give economic sanctions a chance to work. Representative Dante B. Fascell, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said that he and other legislators had said: "If there is a provocation, it's got to be a real one. If there's an additional provocation, it can't be two whales passing in the night. It has to be something that can stand the scrutiny of the media, and of the public, and of history. He understands."
 
Bush Complains of Cynicism
 Today, after he attended the fund-raising breakfast for Representative Stan Parris in Alexandria, Va., the President stopped to talk to reporters and tried to debunk the idea that politics was the motivating factor in turning up the heat against Iraq.
"I don't think even the most cynical would ever suggest that a President would play politics with the lives of American kids halfway around the world," he said. "So I'm sad if you've seen reports like that. I haven't. And I think it is, you know, the ultimate of cynicism and indecency."
As the President and Secretary of State raised the volume, with a discussion of more troops being dispatched to Saudi Arabia and with Mr. Baker planning a trip to the Persian Gulf this weekend, the point was to threaten without setting a timetable or a deadline that would box in the Administration, raise the hackles of Congress or put the United States in the position of making threats before it was willing or able to carry them out.
But by allowing Mr. Sununu to make the opposite point at the same time, the White House seemed to lack a coherent communications strategy to push an agenda -- even if it has a definite plan in the Persian Gulf.
If the Administration had hoped to send President Hussein a strong signal that the United States is getting impatient, that signal was diluted both by Mr. Sununu's words and by the division in intention expressed by Congressional leaders.
Republican strategists continued to express their disdain for the performance of the White House in this critical week before the election. "They don't have their act together," one counselor to the White House said. "They're living in a fog. They're confusing the American public."
Although Mr. Bush railed today against Mr. Hussein for starving the American Embassy workers in Kuwait, the Iraqi leader has said that all diplomats are free to return to their home countries.
Asked why the United States did not simply pull the diplomats out of the embassy, as other countries did, an Administration official replied: "Because we don't want to acquiesce to the annexation of Kuwait."
Mr. Bush said that he did not know how long the diplomats could hold out before they might be forced to withdraw. He said that if Iraq blocked a resupply effort, "it would be directly contravening a mandate from the United Nations and we would view that very seriously."
From the beginning of the Persian Gulf crisis, Mr. Bush insisted that the fate of the hostages would not affect United States policy, and officials insisted that the President would never make the mistake of personalizing the hostages and their families the way that President Reagan did in the period leading up to the Iran-contra scandal.
But today, Mr. Bush offered emotional comments about the fate of the hostages. He cited reports from other foreign captives who had been held with Americans in Kuwait, citing grim conditions. "That worries me," the President said.
"Asked if the hostages have become more important in his strategy for how to deal with the Persian Gulf crisis, Mr. Bush replied, "I wouldn't say more, but I am very concerned about it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush, who lashed out yesterday at President Saddam Hussein, meeting with costumed youngsters in Alexandria, Va. (Associated Press); (pg. A1); "We seek to avoid bloodshed," said the Iraqi Ambassador, Mohammed al-Mashat, at news conference yesterday in Washington. "We'd like to establish good relations with the United States." (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: HOSTAGES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); BUDGETS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SUNUNU, JOHN H; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) ; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN SUNUNU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



16 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1978 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
Birth and Life of a Political Ad: A Negative Message With Common Themes

BYLINE: By RANDALL ROTHENBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WARWICK, R.I.

 BODY:
Bathed in the ochre hues of the City Council's chambers in this fading industrial city, a voter ambled to the microphone and attacked the Republican running for Congress as being "Ed DiPrete's handpicked candidate."
In Washington, 399 miles south, Peter H. Fenn exulted. His 30-second television commercial for John F. Reed, the Democratic candidate in the race to represent Rhode Island's Second Congressional District, had apparently worked. 
 "Certain phrases we put in a spot will resonate, like in a jingle," said Mr. Fenn, who came up with the idea of linking the Republican candidate, Trudy Coxe, with the Republican Governor, Mr. DiPrete.
This is the chronicle of the birth and life of that advertisement. Although it is specific to Rhode Island -- linking a Congressional candidate to a Governor whose popularity, like his state's economy, has been declining -- in many ways it is emblematic of political advertising in the 1990 campaign: It is negative, it responds to an attack and its themes are taxes and class warfare -- elements that define much of the political commercials on television this year.
 
'This Is Rock and Roll'
 Observing its genesis shows that swaying voters is less an orchestrated symphony of manipulation than a last-minute improvisation of sounds and symbols. Or, as Mr. Fenn said in the middle of the frantic hour and a half it took him to produce the advertisement, "This is rock and roll."
The process began a week earlier in the campaign for the Congressional seat being vacated by Representative Claudine Schneider, a five-term Republican who is challenging Rhode Island's senior politician, Claiborne Pell, a 71-year-old Democrat who was first elected to the Senate 30 years ago.
In the second week of October the Reed campaign confronted a new television commercial for Ms. Coxe. In a scant 87 words, it accused the Democrat of missing 363 votes in his six years in the State Senate, but of voting to raise taxes and legislators' pensions. It ended with an ominous gong and the admonition, "Hit the road, Jack."
To the Reed campaign's protest that the candidate had, in fact, voted for $460 million in tax cuts during his term, Ms. Coxe responded: "That was in the mid-80's. He voted to increase the budget five out of the last six years, which led to two tax increases."
 
The Philosophy: Attack and Control
 Like most political consultants this year, the principals of Fenn & King, the Democratic firm representing Mr. Reed, took it as an article of faith that they would have to hit back. Their reasoning was not scientific; rather, it was based on experience.
In a videotape the firm sends to prospective clients, It says: "The lessons we've learned are, first, go on the offensive and dictate the campaign's agenda. Second, always answer an opponent's charge if it's determined to be effective. And third, counterattack and make certain you control the dialogue."
At 8:45 A.M. on Thursday, Oct. 18, Thomas J. King, a burly, 39-year-old former political director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, burst into the firm's unmarked Georgetown town house and began spewing lines he had thought of while driving to work.
"Sometimes politicians get confused," Mr. King said as David M. Woloch, a 1989 Cornell graduate who is the firm's production coordinator, took notes. "Take Trudy Coxe. Trudy Coxe is on television attacking Jack Reed for missing votes. The truth: Jack Reed has a 99 percent attendance record. Why the attack? Because Trudy Coxe supports another tax cut for the rich and powerful. Trudy, even in politics you should tell the truth."
Mr. King told Mr. Woloch to type the text. "Hey, David," he shouted after him. "Add Republican Trudy Coxe."
At 9:15 A.M., Mr. Fenn arrived and was told about the need for a new Reed commercial. His immediate reaction: "Stick 'em with DiPrete."
 
 The Emphasis: Class Warfare
 Mr. Fenn's suggestion had two sources. One was a series of thick looseleaf binders filled with research on Ms. Coxe's personal life and professional history. "The punch-counterpunch stuff is so immediate now that you have to have everything really ready," Mr. Fenn said. From the binders the consultant knew that Ms. Coxe's husband had been Governor DiPrete's 1988 campaign manager, a connection close enough to exploit.
A second source was polling. Few Congressional campaigns can afford the luxury of daily surveys. But a mid-October survey by WJAR-TV in Providence showed the Reed-Coxe race to be virtually a dead heat in a district that ranges from the seashore vacation homes of Narragansett to the hardscrabble wards of Cranston and Warwick. And a survey by Brown University in mid-September showed the Governor with an approval rating hovering around 20 percent.
Mr. Fenn took the script of the commercial and added in pen: "She supports Governor DiPrete's tax cuts for the rich and powerful."
This year Fenn & King has offered up class warfare in three-fourths of its 22 campaigns, most of which are for the House of Representatives. It is a far cry from 1983, when Mr. Fenn, who had been administrative aide to former Senator Frank Church of Idaho, established the consulting firm. In that year he created commercials for only two House races. Today 11 people crowd the firm's cramped headquarters, dodging piles of videotapes and taking a never-ending series of telephone calls from frantic candidates from Washington state to South CArolina.
The 42-year old Mr. Fenn and his colleagues debated the Reed commercial. Steve Murphy, who earned his political spurs as Iowa campaign manager in Representative Richard A. Gephardt's abortive run for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1988, wanted to add how large Ms. Coxe's tax break for herself would be if the cut in the capital gains tax that she favored were passed. Mr. Fenn demurred. "You know how hard it is to attack a woman on personal stuff," he said.
But the most serious disagreement was from the Reed campaign. In an 11:30 A.M. conference call, the candidate expressed his desire to go after Ms. Coxe's record as an environmentalist. The consultants disagreed, arguing that the Republican's long-time stewardship of Save the Bay, a Rhode Island enviromental group, had made her virtually unassailable on the issue.
 
 The Message: She's 'Confused'
 At 12:30, Fenn & King sent to the campaign its third revision of the script, which had been entitled, "Confused." In it, Mr. King had written that Ms. Coxe was "Ed DiPrete's hand-picked candidate."
One hour later, Mr. Fenn joined Mr. King in the sanctum sanctorum of Democratic Congressional campaigning, the Harriman Communications Center in the basement of the Democratic Party's headquarters, just down the hill from the Capitol. Here, Congressional candidates whose races are deemed important by the national party can use a suite of editing rooms, sound studios and satellite transmission equipment without charge.
A campaign might save $1,500 on the production of a single commercial, and perhaps $15,000 to $20,000 over the life of a campaign, Mr. Fenn said. On average, his firm's Congressional races spend about $500,000 for broadcast advertising, paying Fenn & King a 15 percent commission on that spending plus a $25,000 fee.
The rituals and language in the dark, sequestered editing room were arcane. When the consultants wanted text to appear on screen, they talked not of writing but of doing a "Chyron" -- the name of the machine that draws the video letters. They discussed the dictum that it is best to go negative on Thursday night, or, failing that, Friday. Because the advertising departments of most television stations are closed on weekends, it is impossible for the opposition to respond with its own ad before Monday, allowing the attacking candidate his longest sustained assault.
At 6:10 P.M., having finished an advertisement for a Congressional candidate from Idaho, Mr. Fenn began work on the Reed commercial. His deadline: 8 P.M., when another consultant was scheduled to use the room.
Mr. Fenn reviewed the videotape of Ms. Coxe's attack, which he had finally received, by plane and courier, from Rhode Island. He decided to lift from it one shot that accused Mr. Reed of missing votes.
In a matter of minutes, Mr. Fenn laid out the plan of attack. Start with a "Chyron" reading, "Sometimes politicians get a little confused." Cut to a photograph of Ms. Coxe, then to a shot from her attack on Mr. Reed, to remind voters that although she portrayed herself as an outsider, she used negative television commercials just like Washington insiders do. Then, in writing, state "the truth" about Mr. Reed's record. And then use her photo, a shot of Governor DiPrete and photographs of legislation to link her to Republicans and taxes.
 
 The Production: Some Improvisation
 There was no time to plan "hidden persuaders" capable of tripping the viewers' subconscious anxieties. The Reed spot's persuaders were more obvious, chosen simply because they were on hand. Mr. Fenn was going to use a photograph in which Ms. Coxe looked young and callow. But Carol Rachou, a Harriman Center technician who was operating the Chyron machine, saw another photograph of the candidate, in which she looked drawn and angry, and said: "Let's use this one. She looks 20 years older."
Much of the language, too, was last minute. When Mr. Rachou wrote on the screen that Mr. Reed had "voted against tax hikes," Mr. Fenn realized that he should add the Governor's name "since DiPrete is the Devil up there."
With Mr. Fenn conducting, Mr. Rachou and Rolyn Franzen, the video editor, sat at two electronic consoles, frantically tapping buttons and tossing words and images on the screen, enlarging some, shrinking others, looking to all the world like two jamming jazz pianists.
At 8:18 P.M. they finished. The next day, Friday, a Fenn & King employee drove several copies of the videotape to Washington's National Airport and loaded it on a 10:45 A.M. plane to Providence, where it was picked up by the Reed campaign.
Three weeks earlier, Fenn & King's broadcast television buyer, Lisa Goodman, had reserved time on Rhode Island's three network affiliates. Learning about the new Reed commercial, she immediately faxed orders to the stations to replace the candidate's previous commercial. At least through Tuesday, the response to Trudy Coxe would be the only Reed advertisement that Rhode Islanders would see.
The campaign would spend from $30,000 to $42,000 to insure that most of them would see it eight times, on shows like "The CBS Morning News" and "Wheel of Fortune." Ms. Goodman said. She also took care to place the ad on programs popular with people 45 and older, who are the most likely to vote. " 'MacGyver' and '60 Minutes' are incredibly good," she said.
Late that Friday afternoon, voters in the Second District heard the Reed campaign accuse Ms. Coxe for the first time of being "a little confused."
 
 The Impact: Few Are Moved
 But in the end the advertisement drew only shrugs from the public, with many voters saying it made little difference.
"That goes with politics," said Mary Harvey, a 67-year-old part-time nurse. "I don't like name-calling, but it happens."
Over at the candidates' forum in the Warwick City Hall, Ted Jarrett, a retired Chamber of Commerce executive, also said the ad was immaterial. "There was an inference that she was handpicked, but that's not critical," he said.
But Charles Allen, the voter who ambled to the microphone to attack Ms. Coxe, was moved. "I thought Jack's ads were fine, excellent," said Mr. Allen, a retired salesman. "But Trudy Coxe -- she's really going negative against Jack and she can't substantiate what she's saying."
Then he added, "She's DiPrete's handpicked candidate, and DiPrete is way behind."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 30-second television commercial for John F. Reed, a Democratic candidate for Congress from Rhode Island, showed Trudy Coxe, his Republicanopponent, and Gov. Edward DiPrete, whose popularity has been declining. The commercial called Ms. Coxe "Ed DiPrete's handpicked candidate." (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RHODE ISLAND

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING POLITICAL ADVERTISING (93%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); BUDGETS (73%); TAX INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%); 

PERSON: ROTHENBERG, RANDALL; REED, JOHN F; DIPRETE, EDWARD D (GOV); COXE, TRUDY JACK REED (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



17 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
Silber Grabs Attention But Not All the Backing

BYLINE: By BOSTON, Oct. 31, Special to The New York Times

 BODY:
At a backstreet diner here in downtown Boston, where
hundreds of city workers, lawyers and bankers rub elbows daily, conversations usually revolve around the Celtics or the daily specials scribbled above the cash register.
But here at the Hungry Traveler in Court Square, the talk these days is of politics, and in particular of the Democratic candidate for governor, John R. Silber. 
 "Everybody is talking about the election," said Amy Hale, a 27-year-old waitress who sat at a back table during her lunch break. "And I think most people support Silber. Why? He's his own kind of guy. He says what he thinks. He's just a breath of fresh air and the state really needs that."
Voters seem to see Dr. Silber, who is on leave as the president of Boston University, as the Democrat who is not a Democrat, the politician who is not a politician. Dr. Silber has portrayed himself as an angry crusader for leaner, meaner government.
 
'He's Got the Guts'
 And in a state that is sliding into recession, even many of those who shudder at his dictatorial style say they will vote for Dr. Silber if he can whip Massachusetts into better fiscal shape.
"I don't agree with him issue for issue, but he's got the guts to do some of the things we need to do to turn Massachusetts around, like attract business," said John T. Maley, a 28-year-old accountant who sat alone at a red-topped table reading The Boston Globe sports section. "I deal with a lot of small companies and a lot of them decided to leave because of the old Taxachusetts thing under Dukakis. They went to New Hampshire."
Unlike his Republican opponent, William F. Weld, Dr. Silber opposes a proposed tax rollback that would cut more than $1 billion out of the budget during the remaining six months of the fiscal year. His 20 years of experience leading Boston University gives him credibility as a manager, Mr. Maley said.
 
Friends on Different Sides
 At a nearby table, Roy E. Prout and his luncheon partner of 20 years, Eugene D. Smith, sat under a multi-colored wall menu advertising specials "Hot and Fried on the Grill," quietly discussing next week's election.
Mr. Prout, a 60-year-old Boston police detective, said he supports Dr. Silber. Mr. Smith, a 51-year-old banker in gray pin-stripes, is for Mr. Weld. But when asked which candidate had grabbed the voters' attention, both men named Dr. Silber.
"I'm going to vote for Weld, but I think Silber is going to win," Mr. Smith said. "Weld doesn't have any baggage, so to speak, and that's what the people should be looking for. But I like Silber, too. I like the fact that he's outspoken and he says what he thinks. He's a business man, not a politician, and that's what we need. Someone who can make tough decisions."
But it is precisely Dr. Silber's outspokenness that has troubled many voters throughout the campaign.
"Although I am voting for Silber, I kind of feel bad when he calls the guy a son of a bitch in public," Mr. Prout said. "We could at least expect gentlemen wouldn't talk that way in public."
 
A 'Silber Shocker'
 Last week, Dr. Silber referred to Mr. Weld as a "back-stabbing son of a bitch" for resigning as United States Attorney to protest the leadership of Edwin Meese 3d. That "Silber shocker," as the news media has dubbed many of his provocative statements, was followed by another statement last week on a local television program in which he said that the proliferation of working mothers had led to an increase in child neglect.
"It's a dilemma," said Judith A. Gaddie, a 34-year-old city administrator. speaking of the choice between the two. "I definitely did not vote for Silber in the primary and it totally blew my mind when he won. I thought it was a bad dream."
But like many voters in this largely Democratic state, Ms. Gaddie criticized Mr. Weld as too conservative on social service spending. She also called Mr. Weld's budget-cutting plan as too vague and said he "talked like a politician."
"Silber may be too rigid, but Weld just reminded me too much of Bush and Reagan," she said. "He's kind of slippery and too slick,"
 
Reluctant Silber Backer
 But Ms. Gaddie said she would vote, although reluctantly, for Dr. Silber. "I'm really afraid to vote for Silber because I'm afraid he'll take away my rights," she said, noting Dr. Silber's conservative views on women's issues. "That's scary. But I think it is very important to vote.
"After watching him on television, what I finally figured out was that Silber is a straight talker. He may be wrong, but he says what's on his mind. Everybody's torn about who to vote for."
Many women around the state have expressed similar concerns about Dr. Silber's views on women's issues. Earlier last week, in a telephone interview from her real estate office in Arlington, Lin F. Kelleher said Mr. Silber's comments about working women had made her decide to vote for Mr. Weld.
"I'm a Democrat but I'm voting for Weld," said Mrs. Kelleher, who is married and has two children. "I think it is mainly just that Silber comes across looking like a maniac. He basically feels the woman's place is in the home. I don't think he is for working women. I don't think he is for women at all."
Mr. Prout said that given the voters' dissatifaction with the Democratic Party, Mr. Weld should be able to win the election. "I've said to Gene here on many occasions, if the Republicans can't win this time, they should just pull out of the state and never run again," he said. "And in a way, I do question Silber's arrogance -- sometimes -- his coldness. But I think that's what we need."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judith A. Gaddie: "I did not vote for Silber in the primary and it totally blew my mind when he won. I thought it was a bad dream."; John T. Maley: "He's got the guts to do some of the things we need to do to turn Massachusetts around."; Amy Hale: "I think most people support Silber. Why? He's his own kind of guy."; Roy E. Prout: "In a way I do question Silber's arrogance - sometimes - his coldness. But I think that's what we need." (Photographs by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON GLOBE (54%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (91%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (91%); BOSTON CELTICS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); TAX LAW (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); 

PERSON: SILBER, JOHN R

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



18 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Unified Albany Supports Spending Cuts to Close Budget Gap

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 31

 BODY:
In an uncharacteristic display of unity, legislative leaders said today that they concurred with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's dim assessment of the state's finances and approved of plans to close the budget gap through spending cuts alone.
But because the fiscal year, which started in April, has only five months left, financial analysts said it would be extremely difficult for the Governor and the Legislature to live up to their pledge to close the gap through spending cuts. Much of New York State's $50 billion budget, they noted, has already been spent or committed. 
 "It's going to be very tough," said Hy Grossman, a managing director at Standard & Poor's, which recently lowered the state's credit rating. "You're into the last third of the fiscal year. And the problems we're seeing now are the accumulation of three years of poor fiscal management."
With just six days to go before Election Day, legislators today were loathe to discuss specific spending cuts they would make to fill a gap that the Cuomo administration estimated would be $824 million for the current fiscal year. They noted that Mr. Cuomo, who is running for a third term, has put off presenting his plan to close the gap until after Nov. 6.
 
The Sooner, the Better
 "I am encouraged to hear that the Governor will not resort to borrowing or new taxes to close the budget gap," said the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, an Oyster Bay Republican. "As far as his plans for further spending reductions, the sooner the Governor submits them, the better."
Responding to assertions that Mr. Cuomo had purposely delayed presenting spending cuts until after the election, aides to the Governor said the administration had only just learned the magnitude of the problem. "There obviously will be a plan," said Gary G. Fryer, a Cuomo spokesman.
On Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo imposed an immediate hiring freeze on all state agencies and suspended the letting of new state contracts. He also called on all state agencies to submit by Friday plans for cuts totalling 3, 5 and 7 percent of their budgets. From those proposals, Mr. Cuomo said he would draft a plan to fill the budget gap.
"I don't think we can wait because the longer you wait the harder the cuts get," Mr. Cuomo said at a campaign stop in New City today.
The spending cuts, which would require legislative approval, would affect not only state agencies but local governments, who are the major recipients of state dollars.
 
Wrenching Budget Battles
 Today in New York City, Mayor David N. Dinkins, who is struggling with substantial budget problems of his own, said he could not respond to the latest bad news from Albany because he did not yet know what spending cuts would be recommended.
In Albany, lawmakers seemed genuinely dismayed by the latest budget forecast, and they predicted that the next several months would be spent in wrenching budget battles.
For once, however, Democratic and Republican lawmakers appeared to agree with the Democratic Governor and with each other about the magnitude of the state's problems.
Releasing his new estimates of the budget gap on Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo's budget director, Dall W. Forsythe, said the state was feeling the effects of a national recession, which he said "has already started." The Cuomo administration's assessment contradicted a more upbeat analysis offered on Tuesday by President Bush, who said the latest gross national product figures showed that the economy "has not been in a recession as some have claimed."
 
Some 'Real Belt-Tightening'
 In a rare show of support for Mr. Cuomo, Republicans in Albany today sided with the Governor, saying that his economic forecast seemed credible. In the past, Senate Republicans have often scoffed at the Governor's cheerless projections.
"We are not quarreling with the size of the problem," said Abraham M. Lackman, director of the Office of Fiscal Study in the Republican-led Senate.
In the Democratic-led Assembly, the word on the state's financial outlook was equally grim. "The Governor's numbers are consistent with what we've been seeing all along," said Carl Carlucci, secretary to the Ways and Means Committee. "It's going to take a lot of real belt-tightening."
Intensifying the gloom was the growing consensus that, after two years of fiscal troubles, the state had run out of reserves to cushion against painful spending decisions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MAYORS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (61%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



19 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: 472 of the Rich Avoided Taxes

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Some wealthy Americans are still able to scrape together enough deductions to avoid paying any Federal income tax, the Internal Revenue Service said today.
Of 557,848 couples and individuals who reported income of $200,000 or more on returns filed in 1988, 472 with total income of $211 million paid no income tax. Two of them, both unidentified, even reported receiving unemployment compensation.
Of the high-income people who paid taxes, about 9,300 paid less than 5 percent. Another 17,082 reduced their liability to less than 10 percent, which is about the same as that paid by the average $35,000- a-year family.
In its annual report on the tax liabilities of high-income people, the I.R.S. said two- thirds of those with income of $200,000 and up reported capital gains -- profits from the sale of investments -- that averaged $284,814. By comparison, salaries averaged $264,331.
The study, prepared by the Treasury Department's Office of Tax Analysis, is based on raw tax returns. Some of the nontaxpayers could be moved onto the tax rolls following I.R.S. audits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TAXES & TAXATION (92%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



20 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Yen Hurt by Political Fears; Dollar Up in Thin Trading

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Fears of political upheaval in Tokyo pushed the yen down yesterday, while the dollar gained in thin end-of-month trading that was dominated by technical factors.
"It was one of the quietest days in a long time. A little range is starting to develop," said Leslie Puth, vice president of Banque Indosuez in New York. Even most of the yen's movement occurred in overseas trading, dealers said. 
 Against the Japanese currency, the dollar closed at 130.15 yen, up from Tuesday's 128.65 yen. The dollar closed at 1.518 German marks, up from Tuesday's finish of 1.515 marks.
The dollar had risen to 129.55 yen by the opening of United States trading, helped by a report in The New York Times that a top Treasury official said the Bush Administration was concerned about the dollar's recent fall.
This led traders to speculate the Federal Reserve might intervene to support the dollar, which has tumbled recently, and it prompted some dollar-buying.
Also fueling the dollar's rise was speculation that Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party will lose a by-election Sunday, which hampered the yen, traders said.
The dollar was little moved by September economic data released yesterday, traders said. The data showed factory orders rose a scant one-tenth of 1 percent in the month, after a 1.7 percent gain in August, that personal income rose five-tenths of 1 percent, and that personal consumption rose 1.1 percent. Also, the Federal Reserve reported that growth appeared to have slowed nationwide.
The reports seemed to offer no new insight into the state of the economy, and dealers instead turned to technical factors to determine their trades.
Since hitting a record low of 1.491 marks and a 22-month low against the yen in mid-October, the dollar has traded in narrow bands.
Frank Pusateri, a vice president at the Bank of Boston, said the dollar's rise yesterday did not indicate any real strength in the currency or confidence in the economy, and he predicted the dollar would not jump off its recent lows anytime soon.
"Just because the dollar is not going down does not mean it is going up," Mr. Pusateri said.
Despite the gloomy outlook, the dollar posted gains against most major currencies. It ended at 1.2855 Swiss francs, up from 1.2825 francs Tuesday, and at 5.084 French francs, up from 5.0655. The dollar bought $1.1665 Canadian dollars, down from $1.1685 Tuesday, and stood at $1.9435 to the British pound, down from $1.9565.
Gold dipped, with December delivery losing 30 cents, to close at $379.40 an ounce on the Commodity Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (52%); BAC (LSE) (52%); 8648 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: BANQUE INDOSUEZ SA (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (92%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); GERMAN MARK (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); BRITISH POUND (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); CONSUMPTION (65%); FACTORY ORDERS (50%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



21 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
Mayoral Summit: Hoping to Shape Urban Agenda

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins is hoping to accomplish what none of his predecessors have been able to do for at least two decades: rally fellow mayors of major cities to help shape a realistic national urban agenda.
Of 65 mayors approached, 38 have already accepted Mr. Dinkins's invitation to a summit in New York later this month to draft an urban compact that, the Mayor hopes, will mark "the re-emergence of urban America as a full partner in the national political debate." 
 Among those scheduled to attend the Nov. 11-13 summit are the mayors of Boston, Chicago, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, Newark and Philadelphia.
Not since John V. Lindsay was the mayor of New York and Richard M. Nixon was the President have cities been taken very seriously in Washington. That was when promising solutions abounded, as did Federal money on which most of those solutions depended. That was also before drugs, AIDS and homelessness had become epidemic. The severity of those problems further taxed municipal resources. Their ubiquity may now unite many of the nation's mayors.
Mr. Dinkins, like his predecessors, has not been shy about pointing fingers at the Federal Government. When he unveiled his sweeping public-safety proposals in a televised news conference last month, he urged New Yorkers -- four times -- to telephone the Speaker of the House of Representatives to lobby for national legislation that would impose a waiting period for gun pur chases.
 To shift blame to another level of gov ernment is perhaps the local equivalent of a diversionary for eign venture by a President whose do mestic program is under siege. By convening a summit, an official can also enhance his stature at home.
The attention that a mayor of New York City commands makes him uniquely situated to lobby for urban America. Many attempted to. Mr. Lindsay transformed his coalition of mayors from New York State's six largest cities into a national crusade. His successors were at first consumed with their parochial fight for Federal loan guarantees to keep their city solvent, then confronted a national administration whose urban agenda was largely grounded in self-help. During the 1988 Presidential campaign, reasoned debate about urban policy was mostly replaced by symbolism -- Boston Harbor and Willie Horton.
Mr. Dinkins may fare better than his predecessors because the problems he inherited are no longer viewed as unique to New York. A planning group of 10 mayors has defined the urban summit's goals: to explore the role of American cities in the global economy; to expand regional perspectives by integrating city and suburban solutions; and to confront common fiscal challenges.
Mr. Dinkins views the three-day summit, organized by Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch, as the basis for a continuing collaboration. Its longer-range missions, he wrote fellow mayors, include pursuing economic development strategies in conjunction with industry and encouraging "a more balanced and diversified coverage of cities in the local and national media," a subject about which Mr. Dinkins is particularly sensitive as it relates to his city.
The Mayor maintains that the four in five Americans who do not live in major cities are sympathetic to urban problems. He cites a public-opinion poll that suggests support among commuters for his proposed payroll tax to pay for more police officers and a national survey, overseen by the City University of New York's Office of Urban Affairs, in which people who do not live in cities said they would be willing to pay higher taxes to help house the urban poor, among other things.
The mayors' challenge is to transform compassion and self-interest into practical solutions. Also, to convert skeptics into partners.
"The U.S. does not have a 'national urban crisis,"' cautions Richard P. Nathan, director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York in Albany. "Rather, some cities -- typically older cities, declining in population, and with a high proportion of minority residents -- have urban crisis conditions."
That those conditions prevail in large and small cities alike may provide the basis for a broader political coalition. But Dr. Nathan suggests that "there is a great deal to be gained by shifting our attention from making policies to carrying them out, from bold new visions to steady and continued policy innovation, from big headlines in Washington to strong leadership at the state and city levels, from ranting about more money to winning raves about how we use money once it is allocated."
Some mayors might find that confining. Others may seize the opportunity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; MAYORS CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); LOBBYING (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); SUBURBS (67%); GUN CONTROL (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); ROBERTS, SAM RICHARD NIXON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



22 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
New United Air Executive Plans to Build Brand Loyalty

BYLINE: By Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
UNITED AIR LINES, America's largest carrier, has big ambitions. So does Adam M. Aron, its new senior vice president for marketing, who starts work on Monday when he leaves his current earthbound employer, Hyatt Hotels.
Mr. Aron says he wants to spend more advertising dollars to build brand loyalty to United, which he says will be especially important as a recession looms and the price of jet fuel soars. And he hopes, competitors willing, to escape the industry's destructive round of fare discounting. "For every person who wants a cheaper airplane ride," he said in an interview, "there is another person who wants a better airplane ride." 
 He would also like to see less emphasis on destination in United's marketing. "My message would no longer be, 'We fly the Pacific,' but, 'Here's how we fly the Pacific.' "
Mr. Aron has his job cut out for him. With United's recent deal to buy Pan Am's routes to London, which is subject to British regulatory approval, United must cast itself as more of an international airline and must learn to sell itself to Europeans.
For clues to Mr. Aron's brand-building approach, one needs look only at his successful "The Hyatt Touch" marketing campaign, which emphasized Hyatt's facilities, room service and frequent-guest program, modeled after the airlines' frequent-flier programs.
But the Hyatt television commercials are also frankly sensual. As the Platters sing a version of their hit "The Magic Touch," the camera pans past fluttering curtains, bedsheets in artful disarray and enough lithe limbs to outrage retired hotel detectives everywhere. Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos, in Boston, handles the Hyatt account.
The UAL Corporation, United's parent company, is not feeling quite that frisky, but it is getting there. UAL spent an estimated $127 million last year on print and broadcast advertising. But its marketing has been pretty much in a holding pattern because of the three-year battle over who will own the carrier. The airlines' unions had sought to it, as did other parties. The unions' latest bid collapsed last month.
Mr. Aron said he admired United's current campaign, devised by Leo Burnett USA of Chicago, and planned no changes in the agency or its longtime slogan, "Fly the Friendly Skies of United." Burnett's commercials are lushly colored, briskly edited montages of airplanes and foreign ports of call, with the booming strains in the background of George Gershwin's "Rhapsody in Blue."
With the ownership question apparently resolved, UAL's chairman, Stephen M. Wolf, has taken firm control of United. He is buying a record number of new planes and also wants a new marketing approach. That effort will be led by Mr. Aron, a Wolf protege from 1982 when Mr. Wolf was senior vice president for marketing at Pan American World Airways and Mr. Aron was liaison to Pan Am's travel agencies.
At 36 years old, Mr. Aron has a Harvard M.B.A. and is a marketing veteran from Western Air Lines as well as Pan Am. When Mr. Aron was with Western in 1985, the California carrier emphasized such amenities as steak, shrimp and champagne on its $59 flight from Los Angeles to Seattle.
Mr. Aron also revived Western's venerable slogan, "Western Air Lines -- the Only Way to Fly." He said the slogan helped a great deal in a brutal competitive battle in California, which nonetheless resulted in Western being acquired by Delta Air Lines.
"There was a lot of equity in that Western slogan and there is a very big lesson for United Airlines in that," Mr. Aron said. "Way too many marketers underestimate the brand loyalty of airline customers."
Mr. Aron sees many similarities between airlines and his most recent employer, the hotel business. Both are similarly seasonal, have similar business and leisure customers, and, most of all, have similar kinds of "perishable inventory."
"An unsold hotel room is like an empty airline seat," he said. "Once the sun sets or the airplane door closes, you're not going to make any money from it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (94%); UAL (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (94%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (94%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (83%); HILL HOLLIDAY (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIR LINES INC; BURNETT, LEO, CO INC

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ADVERTISING BRANDING (91%); AIRLINES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BRAND EQUITY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); LOYALTY MARKETING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (74%); FUEL MARKETS (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); JET FUEL (71%); APPROVALS (67%); 

PERSON: ARON, ADAM M STEPHEN M WOLF (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



23 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Health Care Costs Soar, But Not as Much in New York

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
New York State has health care costs among the highest in the country, but the rate at which those costs are increasing is the slowest of all 50 states, according to new estimates of health care costs issued today.
The report is the first state-by-state breakdown of health care costs since the Federal Government stopped issuing such figures in 1982. In addition to citing current and past costs, it reports the number of uninsured in each state and estimates how much health care will cost at the end of the decade. 
 "We are paying more and getting less," said Ron Pollack, executive director of Families U.S.A. Foundation, a nonprofit health care policy group in Washington, which put out the report. "Americans have a life span two years shorter than our neighbors in Canada. We have higher death rates from heart disease. Our infant mortality is higher than that of Singapore. At least one out of every four Americans will go without health insurance for a month or more over the next three years."
 
Costs Nearing a Trillion
 The cost of health care in the United States shot up to $606 billion from $230 billion in the last decade, and if trends remain the same, will reach almost $1.5 trillion by the end of the decade, the report said.
 New York spent an estimated $50 billion on health care in the fiscal year 1990, up from about $22 billion in 1980, a rise of 128 percent. While that increase is very high compared with inflation, it is the lowest of the 50 states. It comes to $2,818 a person in the state in 1990.
The number of people in New York without any kind of health insurance rose to 2 million in 1988, or 11.5 percent of the population, from 1.6 million in 1980.
Connecticut had the lowest percentage of uninsured people of any state in 1988 -- 186,000, or 5.8 percent, of the population. The number dropped by four percent from 1980 to 1988. The state's 147 percent increase in spending on health care -- from $3.5 billion in 1980 to $8.8 billion in 1990, was 32d highest in the nation. Spending in the fiscal year 1990 was estimated at $2,699 a person.
New Jersey's spending rose to $17.4 billion from $6.8 billion in the past decade, for a 154 percent increase, the 27th highest in the nation. The number of uninsured also declined 7 percent in New Jersey in the last decade, to an estimated 638,000 for 1990, or 8.3 percent of the population. Spending was estimated at $2,224 a person for 1990.
Costs varied widely around the country. Massachusetts had the highest, at $3,031 per capita, and South Carolina the lowest, at $1,689 a person. The lowest costs are generally in the South.
The highest rates of increase came in Arizona, Alaska, Florida, New Mexico and Maine. Mr. Pollack noted that three of these are Sunbelt states with a higher-than-average number of elderly.
The states with the greatest number of uninsured are, in order, New Mexico, Arkansas, Texas, Florida, Oklahoma, Mississippi, Arizona, Nevada, Louisiana and California. The first nine of these are Sunbelt states in which a high proportion of jobs are in service industries, which have a high percentage of nonunion workers with low pay and low benefits, Mr. Pollack said.
Citizen Action, an advocacy group with 2.5 million members in the United States, assisted in compiling the report. It can be obtained by writing to Families U.S.A. Foundation, 1334 G Street N.W., Washington, D.C., 20005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); FAMILIES USA FOUNDATION (57%); FAMILIES USA FOUNDATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILIES USA FOUNDATION FAMILIES USA FOUNDATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); INFANT MORTALITY (68%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



24 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Kodak Loss Is Less Than Projections

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The Eastman Kodak Company yesterday reported a loss of $206 million for the third quarter after taking a charge to pay $909.5 million in a patent infringement award to the Polaroid Corporation.
But Kodak's stock rose sharply because the loss was smaller than many industry analysts had expected. 
 The net loss compared with a profit of $300 million, or 93 cents a share, in last year's third quarter. Revenues totaled $4.77 billion, up about 5 percent from $4.54 billion in the 1989 quarter.
 
'Some Comfort'
 On an operating basis, Kodak said its earnings were up about 22 percent, to $835 million, from $682 million in last year's quarter.
"I think it was a solid operating quarter and that it may give some comfort as one looks ahead on estimates for the next year," said James Meyer, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott.
Kodak's stock was up $1.375, to $39.875, in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
On Oct. 12, a Federal judge ordered Kodak to pay Polaroid $454.2 million in lost profit and royalties and $455.3 million in interest for bringing out instant cameras in 1976 that infringed on Polaroid's patents.
The award was well below the $12 billion Polaroid had sought and the $1.5 billion to $2 billion industry analysts had expected.
Brenda Lee Landry, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said Kodak's stock had been "morbidly depressed" even after the patent settlement and that the earnings report could be the beginning of a recovery.
Kodak, based in Rochester, said its worldwide sales continued to rise in the quarter, though gains in international markets were partly offset by lagging United States shipments because of a sluggish economy.
"Although we are concerned about general softness in the U.S. economy, we have characterized 1990 as a year of higher sales and sharply higher operating earnings," Kodak said in a statement. "We see no reason to change that characterization."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (97%); POLAROID CORP (94%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN KODAK CO

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS PATENTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



25 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Orders at U.S. Factories Rose 0.1% in September

BYLINE: REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Orders received by United States factories rose a scant one-tenth of 1 percent in September, the Commerce Department said today, as demand for durable goods like cars fell sharply.
The gain in September orders, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $244.5 billion, followed a revised 1.7 percent rise in orders during August, when higher petroleum and chemical prices pushed the total value of orders higher. 
 Department officials said September's rise was the weakest performance since June, when orders dropped 1.9 percent, although it was above economists' expectations of a decline of three-tenths of 1 percent.
The department said September factory orders were inflated by higher petroleum prices since the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq on Aug. 2. Excluding petroleum, orders in September fell 1.1 percent.
 
Durable Goods Drop 1.4%
 A principal component of factory orders, durable goods, fell 1.4 percent in September after declining nine-tenths of 1 percent in August. Durables are items like refrigerators and automobiles intended to last at least three years.
Excluding transportation, total factory orders rose 1.2 percent in September after gaining 1.8 percent in August. Auto sales have weakened in the fourth quarter as consumers grow more cautious about buying amid growing signs of a recession and climbing gasoline prices.
A week ago, in a separate report just on durable goods, the department said orders had fallen 1.7 percent in September.
Durable goods account for about half of the factory orders index.
Transportation equipment orders fell 6.8 percent in September after rising 1 percent in August. Within that category, orders for aircraft and missiles were up 20.4 percent in September after falling 21.3 percent in August.
 
Little Change Since March
 Factory orders have been essentially unchanged since March in a pattern of moderate monthly rises and falls, and there is little to suggest that will change.
The nation's gross national product rose at a fairly strong 1.8 percent annual rate between July and September, the Commerce Department said Tuesday. But that was mostly because of a burst of consumer spending on cars and other goods that has since waned. Most private economists say the economy is headed into recession.
Shipments of motor vehicles and parts plunged 14.3 percent in September after an 8.5 percent increase in August.
Orders for primary metals were down 1.1 percent in September after a 2.5 percent drop in August.
 
Electrical Machinery Orders Fall
 Orders for electrical machinery decreased 6.3 percent in September after a 2 percent rise in August, while non-electrical machinery orders rose 6.2 percent after falling 5.2 percent in August.
Orders for nonmilitary capital goods, a measure of expansion plans by business, gained 7 percent in September after declining 10 percent in August.
Military orders for capital goods, another volatile category, fell 6.7 percent in September after gaining 12 percent in August.
Excluding the military, total orders rose three-tenths of 1 percent in September after increasing by 1.4 percent in August.
Shipments of manufactured goods declined seven-tenths of 1 percent in September after increasing 3.3 percent in August.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Factory orders from 4/89 to 9/90 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); DURABLE GOODS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); RECESSION (89%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (74%); SHIPMENTS (72%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



26 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Bethlehem Steel Profit Plunges 78%

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
The Bethlehem Steel Corporation, stung by sharply lower steel prices and higher operating costs, said yesterday that its third-quarter net income dropped 78 percent. Bethlehem, the nation's second-largest steel company, also said the level of shipments dropped 6 percent for the quarter.
Bethlehem, like other leading steel makers, was hurt by the widespread price discounting in the industry in the quarter, as previously announced price increases failed to stick. 
 The company reported net income of $10.1 million, or 5 cents a share, compared with $46.9 million, or 53 cents a share, in the 1989 period. Sales for the quarter declined 4.7 percent, to $1.21 billion, from $1.27 billion. The third quarter of 1989 included $105 million in charges for restructuring and reducing the size of two of its operations.
While price discounting has affected the earnings of several other steel companies, Bethlehem has been particularly vulnerable because it has few operations outside of steel. Also, Bethlehem is the only big producer that has no joint ventures with foreign steel companies.
 
Underlying Problems
 "Bethlehem may have a couple of little problems beneath the surface that will affect them more negatively than some of their competitors," said John Jacobson, an analyst with AUS Consultants in Philadelphia. "They have higher costs for retiree benefits, a large number of retirees and high health-care benefits -- and the potential for restructuring and charges associated with those."
In an interview, Walter F. Williams, Bethlehem's chairman, complained that rival producers had allowed pricing to collapse in an effort to gain market share. "Some of the people in the industry felt there was a need to cut prices to hold on to volume," Mr. Williams said. "And that has impacted the pricing structure severely."
At the same time, Mr. Williams said, costs have continued to climb. "We have seen some increases that resulted from the labor contract signed last year," he said. "Also, there have been increases in purchased materials, oil costs and energy. Our price increases have been across the board." The price declines have been surprising, he added, because industry shipments have remained at about last year's level.
 
Cost of a Shutdown
 The company said its results were further affected by a planned 25-day shutdown of its mill in Sparrows Point, Md., as part of Bethlehem's modernization efforts and repairs of coke ovens. The company added that those costs were expected to continue into the fourth quarter and next year.
Bethlehem reported operating income from its basic steel operations of $27 million, compared with $59 million in the period last year. From steel-related operations, the company reported operating income of $12 million, in contrast to a loss of $8 million in the period last year.
Mr. Williams said Bethlehem would raise prices at the beginning of the year. "We're hopeful that, if we don't have a more significant recession than people are predicting, those 1991 price increases will hold."
On the New York Stock Exchange, Bethlehem's stock was up 25 cents, closing at $11.375.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BS (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS PRICE CUTTING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); SHIPMENTS (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (60%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



27 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Price of Oil, Still Erratic, Exceeds $35

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Oil prices rallied late yesterday to move above $35 a barrel in a third straight erratic trading session that largely ignored news on the Persian Gulf standoff.
Crude oil had been down about $1 a barrel in early trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, but a surge in the afternoon pushed it up by about $2 from the morning lows. Crude settled at $35.23 a barrel, up 69 cents for the day, on contracts for delivery in December. 
 All later contract months closed higher in a market that stayed about as sluggish as in the two previous sessions.
"Compared to normal changes, it's a wimp today," said Philip L. Dodge, an oil analyst with Nomura Securities International Inc. "There hasn't been anything to signal that we're closer to war or peace. It just gets caught in the middle."
There was no dominant news moving the market, although some of the move down was attributed to conciliatory remarks from Iraq and some of the move up was attributed to war talk from the United States and Britain.
Thomas Blakeslee, an energy analyst at Pegasus Econometric Group Inc., in Hoboken, N.J., said the late rally came as floor traders who had agreed to sell oil early in the day found they had bet the wrong way as oil refused to drop. They then bought crude-oil contracts to avoid losing more money and the price went up.
"On the close, the market took off," Mr. Blakeslee said. "You found locals caught on the wrong side. As it turned positive, locals realized this market had no oomph to the down side." Locals are traders who perform functions similar to the specialists in the stock market.
Future contracts for refined petroleum products also seemed to fluctuate with little sense of direction.
Home heating oil closed 1.63 cents lower, at 89.54 cents a gallon on November contracts. December and January contracts fell, but more-distant months moved higher for the day.
Unleaded gasoline contracts were all higher at the close, with November delivery up 2.71 cents, to 96.44 cents a gallon.
Natural gas prices were also mixed. December delivery contracts fell 4.8 cents to $2.36 a 1,000 cubic feet.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Oil Price per barrell from 8/90 to 10/90 (Source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: GULF STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (70%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); GASOLINE (79%); FUTURES (79%); NATURAL GAS (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



28 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Filming in New York May Be Disrupted By a Labor Dispute

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
With the expiration last night of a contract between the major Hollywood film and television producers and a production crafts union, New York City is facing a slowdown in an industry that is a source not only of prestige but of badly needed jobs and revenue as well.
At stake is the continued employment of nearly 3,500 workers who toil on more than 100 New York film productions yearly, as well as the future of the city's third largest industry, behind tourism and fashion. Film and television production pumps more than $2.7 billion into the city's economy each year, according to the Mayor's Office for Film, Theater and Broadcasting. 
 "This is far from a typical labor situation where a factory shuts down, or the presses stop rolling," said Amy Sultan, the assistant director for film of the Mayor's Office.
The impact of the labor dispute is unclear thus far. "We're going into our slowest season here, from now to March, and we might not see the effects immediately," said Ms. Sultan. "But we'd begin to know for sure when films scripted for New York wound up shooting in Toronto."
 
The Union and Its People
 The producers have promised to steer films away from New York City until an agreement is reached with the union, Local 52 of the International Alliance of Theater Stage Employees and Moving Picture Machine Operators. It provides the sound people, electricians, shop craftsmen, prop people, camera grips, gaffers and set dressers for the city's film and television productions.
 Yesterday a new proposal for an agreement was presented to the producers by Local 52. There was no immediate response from the producers, and at the moment there are no plans for further negotiation or for a contract extension. "We are still at a bargaining impasse with 52," said Joel Grossman, the vice president of labor relations at Columbia Pictures and the producers' chief negotiator with the union.
 Another Manhattan-based local, representing 1,500 cinematographers, is also negotiating with the major producers. The producers' contract with the union, Local 644 of the International Photographers of the Motion Picture and Television Industries, expired on Sept. 30. The local's next session with the producers is scheduled for December.
"My people will continue to work while we're in negotiations, and we fully expect to be bargaining in good faith in December," said Lou D'Agostino, the business representative of Local 644, which has jurisdiction over the entire East Coast.
 
Embargo? Well, Not Exactly
 Until the dispute is resolved, the Hollywood producers have said, they will institute what amounts to an embargo on film production in New York, though they are not calling it that. "It's not an embargo, it's just a good business decision not to come to New York," said Nick Counter, the president of the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers in Los Angeles, which bargains for the major studios and television producers in Los Angeles.
In the current negotiation those parties include Columbia Pictures , the 20th Century Fox Film Corporation, Paramount Pictures , Warner Brothers , MGM/United Artists and Orion Pictures , which participates as a distributor.
The producers would avoid New York, Mr. Counter said, "because nobody will risk millions of dollars on a production without a contract, because the union has a legal right to strike at any time." He added, "I know of at least 10 pictures that have been rescheduled so they will not be in New York for the next three months."
He declined to give specifics about these productions. Jaynne Keyes, the director of the Mayor's Film Office, said that she had not been notified that any productions were pulling out of the city, and that six film productions were scouting locations for future movies in New York.
 
Willing to Keep Working
 Local 52 has promised producers its employees will work in good faith until a new contract can be agreed upon, said John Patrick Oates, the president and business manager of the 1,950-member Local 52. "We're not looking to put our people out of work," he said.
Mr. Oates said that currently eight productions were shooting in his union's jurisdiction, which includes New York City and Long Island.
Members of Local 52 and Local 644 staff most of the film and television productions shot in New York City. The International Alliance merged with the National Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians on Oct. 1, and any agreement would affect both unions.
Both unions are grappling with complex issues of parity between the New York film locals and the West Coast locals, which have different work rules involving overtime and weekend differential rates, as well as different financing for their health and pension benefits.
 
East vs. West
 The producers want to be able to employ the East Coast union members for a workweek consisting of five days of the producers' choosing, paying straight time for each eight hours worked in a day, and time-and-a-half for any overtime up to 14 hours. The West Coast locals agreed to these conditions last year, in return for some $40 million in payments into health and pension funds from the residual earnings of films from videocassette, cable television and network television sales.
The East Coast locals want to preserve their current work rules, which call for a five-day Monday-through-Friday workweek, with double time on Saturdays and Sundays, double time from 8 to 14 hours, and triple time for some night and weekend shooting. Mr. D'Agostino, the business representative for Local 644, said that the extra money earned in overtime was needed to equal the residual payments received by the West Coast local members.
 
New York's Crowded Weekdays <>
Mr. Counter, of the Producers' Alliance, said that its payments for pension and health funds were higher for East Coast union members than for those on the West Coast, and that the money from residuals was not a factor in the negotiations.
The crucial issue, Mr. Counter said, was that film makers often needed to shoot on weekends because of the congestion of weekday New York, and that the high cost of overtime reduced the number of film productions in the city.
If the producers cancel future productions in New York, the economic loss to the city "could be substantial depending on how long the disagreement goes on," said Ms. Sultan. Last year, there were 110 movies shot partly or totally in New York City.
 So far this year, all or part of 127 films have been shot in New York, "and economically we're running ahead of last year," Ms. Sultan said. "We had a lot of very big budget movies here this year, including 'Bonfire of the Vanities,' 'Hudson Hawk,' and 'Billy Bathgate.' "
 
A Written Promise
 The latter, a Touchstone Pictures film version of the E. L. Doctorow novel, is currently shooting in Manhattan. The film is being directed by Robert Benton and stars Dustin Hoffman, Bruce Willis, Nicole Kidman and Loren Dean.
Mr. Oates, of Local 52, said the film makers had been sent letters promising that the union would work despite the expiration of the contract.
"We've heard the majors are trying to relocate outside of New York City," said Mr. D'Agostino of Local 644. "But that's just the normal saber rattling in collective bargaining."
In the film industry, "it has not been unusual for contracts to expire and for people to work as long as two years while negotiations went on," said Ms. Sultan. "But perhaps the majors are not choosing to do that any longer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dustin Hoffman in a scene from "Billy Bathgate," which is being filmed in Manhattan. (Dominick Conde/Star File Photo)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: THEATER STAGE EMPLOYEES, INTERNATIONAL ASSN OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; LABOR; CONTRACTS LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (92%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); MOVIE FILMING (90%); FILM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (75%); MAYORS (74%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



29 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON TALK;
Moving to Slow the Revolving Door

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
From the "Great Barbecue" scandals of the Ad ministration of Ulysses S. Grant to Teapot Dome to vicuna coats, the United States has swung from long spasms of concern about corruption to equally long periods of complacency.
In an era of $1,500 toilet seats, a multibillion-dollar savings and loan bailout and anxiety about international competitiveness, the cycle has turned to reform, focused this time on the so-called revolving door. 
 The idea that political appointees to Government posts bring a leavening influence to the bureaucracy and a sense of political direction is seemingly unexceptional. The reformists argue that many appointees view Government as no more than a way station to the next job -- or, as Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington policy-research group, put it, "are simply burnishing their credentials to make money."
There was concern, and even complaint, though not a reform rush, when domestic interests like Motorola hired senior officials from the White House, the Office of the United States Trade Representative and the International Trade Commission. But now, Japanese businesses have been hiring scores of American officials to promote commercial interests in Washington, and the reformers are in full cry.
"From my own experience," said Richard T. Imus, a former American economics minister in Bonn recently hired by Daimler Benz, "having someone who understands the U.S. and advises a company on things that let business get done without stresses and strains is advantageous for everyone, including the U.S."
 Still, reformers may be succeeding in slowing the door's revolutions.
One tool is the postemployment section of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, chiefly sponsored by two House Democrats, Marcy Kaptur of Ohio and Howard Wolpe of Michigan. Aimed principally at trade negotiators, it goes into effect Jan 1. It will slow the revolutions of the revolving door by barring those people from lobbying for a year in areas of their government expertise. Sponsors are pressing new legislation to stretch the ban to four years.
"The mood here?" said one official at the Office of the United States Trade Representative. "I'd say it's more annoyance than anything else. This is the sort of legislation that punishes those who are serving now for the perceived sins of the past."
Yet for some like Don Ahrens, vice president of the AP Parts Company, making mufflers, pipes and shock absorbers in Toledo, Ohio, the sins of the past are egregious.
In preparing for a Commerce Department export trade mission in Japan, Mr. Ahrens shared proprietary information about his business with officials in charge of the mission.
"When I met with him later, he explained to me in dismay that after he returned to Washington to follow up on matters related to that mission, he discovered that the same people he had previously dealt with were now working on behalf of the very foreign interests that compete with his company," Ms. Kaptur recalled.
 Passing laws to cure a problem is typically American. Yet while reformers in this case talk about "changing the way business is done in Washington," many analysts believe a French expression may better sum up the likely results: "The more things change, the more they stay the same." (In France, by the way, former civil servants are barred for five years from contracts with companies they worked with as government employees. In Britain, Germany and Japan most civil servants serve until retirement.)
Allan J. Lichtman, a professor at American University, has studied past scandals as well as attempts at reform. Not surprisingly, he has found that, for the most part, "cures" did not work.
Laws of the 1970's were supposed to correct campaign financing abuses, but now the same abuses come through political action committees.
Sometimes reforms have adverse consequences, like personal voter registration and at-large elections of the Progressive era that are now deemed to keep minorities out of office.
Of the latest reforms, Mr. Lichtman predicted: "I don't think they'll work. They're like a Band-Aid."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; JAPAN CORRUPTION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); ETHICS (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LOBBYING (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (57%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H MARCY KAPTUR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



30 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk; HEALTH

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: Old Disease Emerges as a Factor in AIDS Spread

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
The man was a prototypical patron of Nairobi's crowded city clinic for sexually transmitted diseases. An unmarried worker 31 years old, he had had sexual relations with about 20 women in the last year, he said. No, he never used condoms. He said he believed a recent "pickup" gave him the painful genital infection that brought him in, an oozing sore the size of a dime.
As the doctor prescribed an antibiotic he also talked the man into giving blood for an AIDS test. For the man was prototypical in another sense, too: as a candidate for AIDS. Not only was he sexually active in a city where many prostitutes and bar girls carry the AIDS virus, he was also suffering from chancroid, a little-known disease that causes genital ulcers and is one of the most potent known promoters of the sexual spread of AIDS. 
 A scourge of troops in World War I, almost forgotten in Western countries as it fell to negligible levels there, chancroid has emerged as one of the chief villains of the global epidemic of acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
 
Major Factor in Afrian AIDS
 Chancroid (pronounced SHANG-kroid) spreads through sexual intercourse and is caused by the bacterium Hemophilus ducreyi. It is especially common in many African countries, where it has been a major factor in the lightning proliferation of AIDS. The World Health Organization estimates that at least five million Africans have been infected with the AIDS virus, in most cases through heterosexual intercourse.
In the United States, too, chancroid appears to be giving an extra nudge to the small but growing heterosexual spread of AIDS in inner cities. A new study of men visiting a sexually transmitted disease clinic in New York City found that those with chancroid were much more likely than those with other venereal diseases to become infected with the AIDS virus.
But chancroid is not common enough in the United States to be an accomplice in more than a small fraction of the country's AIDS infections, researchers say.
"Until recently nobody cared about chancroid," said Dr. Allan R. Ronald, who is chief of internal medicine at the University of Manitoba in Alberta, Canada, and helped run landmark studies of venereal diseases and AIDS in Nairobi. "It's not a chronic disease and it doesn't hurt babies.
"Some doctors even considered it a good thing," he said. "It brought in patients who could then be treated and counseled about other more dangerous sexually transmitted diseases."
 
'Vital to Attack Chancroid'
 But now, in view of the strong link to AIDS, "all would agree that it's vital to attack chancroid," Dr. Ronald said.
Beyond Africa, the disease is common in parts of Asia, including Thailand, where chancroid and rising AIDS cases among prostitutes suggest the ominous possibility of an African-style epidemic of AIDS. The incidence is relatively low in Latin America and in the industrialized world, said Dr. George P. Schmid, a chancroid expert at the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta.
In the United States, chancroid peaked in the 1940's, was seldom seen in the 1970's, but then jumped back in the 1980's, with outbreaks in several cities causing a total of several thousand reported cases each year. Almost all the patients were black or Hispanic men who frequented female prostitutes; gay men have seldom been afflicted.
New York City has accounted for most of the American cases, with a recent high of 3,200 reported in 1988. In a development that has left officials totally mystified, the cases of chancroid in the city are now falling as abruptly as they rose, with around 1,600 cases projected for 1990, said Dr. John Miles of the New York City Health Department. The decline is all the more mysterious because it is occuring even as rising syphilis rates betray a failure of disease control programs.
 
Outbreaks in Other Cities
 Among other cities currently experiencing outbreaks of chancroid are Memphis, New Orleans, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and several cities and towns in Florida, Dr. Schmid said.
Ordinarily the heterosexual spread of AIDS is difficult, especially from female to male. But genital ulcers, researchers believe, provide ready pathways in and out of the body for the AIDS virus, and they are teeming with the type of immune cells the virus invades.
Syphilis and herpes also cause genital ulcers and evidence indicates that these too can facilitate transmission of AIDS. Some studies have not found as powerful an effect as with chancroid, perhaps because the sores are not likely to fester as much. Other experts say there is no biological reason to think ulcers caused by chancroid are more dangerous than others.
 
Other Diseases Raise Risks
 Recent studies have found that nonulcerative sexual transmitted diseases like gonorrhea and chlamydia also increase the chances of AIDS transmission during sex, perhaps because of the inflammation they cause. While the effect may be weaker than with ulcers, from a public health viewpoint the news is alarming because these are by far the most common sexually transmitted diseases.
For an individual, though, chancroid is a far more powerful multiplier of the AIDS risk.
When a woman has a chancroid ulcer, her risk of receiving the AIDS virus from an infected man is increased threefold, Dr. Ronald estimated, based on data from several African countries. When a woman already has the AIDS virus and she also has chancroid, the AIDS risk to a male partner is increased at least fivefold from its normally slight level, he said.
Studies in Nairobi indicate that a man has more than 1 chance in 20 of contracting the AIDS virus in a single sexual encounter with a woman who is both infected with AIDS and has chancroid sores. This risk may be doubled again if the man is uncircumcized, since the area under the foreskin is especially prone to infections and microscopic lesions.
Chancroid, first described as a distinct disease in the mid-19th century, has traditionally thrived amid poverty and war. It is largely spread by prostitutes: in 19th century Europe, outbreaks were said to follow the path of traveling circuses and carnivals.
Chancroid afflicts far more men than women. This apparently results from the different ways its symptoms emerge.
Although women develop several small genital ulcers, and some suffer discomfort, many women do not realize they have chancroid. Antibiotics can cure the disease; left untreated, it lasts for at least several weeks and is presumably infectious all the while.
In a common pattern, researchers say, a prostitute, who is either unaware of her ulcers or who from economic necessity or drug addiction overlooks the pain, spreads chancroid to large numbers of men.
Men with the disease develop one or more festering sores on the penis, usually within a week. They do not fail to notice it.
"I don't think there is such a thing as a male silent carrier," said Dr. Schmid. "Men by and large cease sexual activity and get treated."
 
Sores Prove Virus Entry
 A woman with chancroid ulcers is more vulnerable to AIDS because the sores provide a ready entry for the virus. But evidence suggests that the disease increases female-to-male transmission of the AIDS virus, HIV, through a different pattern.
"We think men are getting HIV and chancroid at the same time," said Dr. Francis A. Plummer, a colleague of Dr. Ronald's who has conducted venereal disease studies at the University of Nairobi for many years.
According to the theory, a woman who has both genital sores and HIV has vastly higher quantities of the virus in her genital tract than normal. This multiplies the danger for a man who has even a microscopic break in the skin of the penis.
The risk is apparently substantial. In a research project at the Nairobi city clinic, Dr. Mark Tyndall, another Canadian researcher at the University of Nairobi, followed men who came in with genital ulcers, largely chancroid, but did not have antibodies to the AIDS virus in their blood. During followup periods ranging from only 4 to 12 weeks, 6 percent of the patients developed AIDS antibodies.
Because it takes weeks or months for antibodies to develop after infection with the AIDS virus, the findings strongly suggest that many men are picking up chancroid and AIDS simultaneously, Dr. Tyndall said.
 
Some Confirming Evidence
 New research in New York City led by Dr. Edward E. Telzak of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center has pointed toward the same conclusions. Men who sought treatment at a South Bronx venereal disease clinic, did not have AIDS antibodies and were not intravenous drug users, were followed for at least three months.
Two percent of the men overall developed AIDS antibodies during the study period but 5 percent of those who had come in with chancroid did. Again, evidence suggested that men often became infected with chancroid and AIDS in the same sexual encounter.
Because chancroid is such a visible disease, among men, at least, with most patients actively seeking treatment, it should be susceptible to eradication. But for women, one of the greatest needs is to teach them to be aware of chancroid symptoms and seek immediate care, doctors say. In poor countries, an impediment is the high cost of effective drugs; the bacterium has become resistant to many inexpensive antibiotics.
"Chancroid could be eradicated and its role in the AIDS epidemic be removed," Dr. Ronald said. But it is not clear just how much difference renewed control programs would make in the United States.
"Certainly a lot of AIDS transmission occurs in the absence of any sexually transmitted disease," said Dr. Mary Ann Chiasson of the New York City Health Department, a co-author of the Bronx study. "The most important thing still has to be changing behavior."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Allan R. Ronald studied veneral diseases and AIDS in Kenya (University of Manitoba); Graph: Cases of chancroid per 100,000 from '50 to '89.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HEALTH PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: KENYA (94%); AFRICA (93%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (64%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MANITOBA, CANADA (66%); ALBERTA, CANADA (52%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); CHANCROID; VENEREAL DISEASES AIDS & HIV (99%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); BACTERIA (90%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); VIRUSES (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (76%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); WORLD WAR I (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



31 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: A West Coast Composer Looks to the Far East

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
The California composer Lou Harrison, whose "Last Symphony" will receive its first performance tomorrow night as part of a three-concert Brooklyn Philharmonic/Next Wave event at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, had his links at one time to New York. He lived here in the 1940's, composing and organizing concerts and even writing music criticism for The New York Herald-Tribune when Virgil Thomson was that paper's chief critic.
 But by now, the Oregon-born Mr. Harrison is about as far removed from the stereotype of the tough-guy New York composer, with maximally dissonant music and bristling polemics obbligato, as one could possibly imagine. He looks for inspiration not to Europe (which he puckishly calls "northwest Asia") but to the Orient. He wears informal Western dress, is a determined internationalist (fluent in Esperanto) and pacifist, and composes in an eclectic, tuneful style far removed from the knotty complexity that has defined New York avant-garde music in recent decades.
 
 The diversity of Mr. Harrison's musical and biographical experiences is something far removed from a more conventional, career-track kind of composer. Having studied in California with Henry Cowell and Arnold Schoenberg, he organized concerts with John Cage and worked as a florist, record clerk, poet, dancer, dance critic, music copyist and playwright.
 In New York, aside from his composing and music criticism, he edited scores and prepared many editions of the music of Charles Ives, whose manuscripts were in a notoriously chaotic state. Settling in Aptos, Calif., near Santa Cruz, where he still lives, he composed, worked in an animal hospital, taught and lectured. He also made trips to every corner of the Orient.
 
A Gamelan Proponent
 His two main concerns, which are interrelated, have been Javanese gamelan music and pitch relations, meaning the study of arrangements of the scale purer than the compromises built into the Western equal-tempered system. He and the man he calls his life companion, William Colvig, have constructed several Indonesian gong orchestras, and the "Last Symphony" uses three such instruments, one of them built by Mr. Colvig. By now, Mr. Harrison counts as the father of the American gamelan movement, which comprises some 200 ensembles, half in California alone, playing both Indonesian and contemporary repertory.
 At 73 years of age, and with a recent history of diabetes and heart trouble, Mr. Harrison might seem to have entitled this "Last Symphony," his fourth, with gloomy premonitions. In fact, he sounds positively cheerful, remarking in his program notes that "should I ever write another, I can call it 'Very Last Symphony.' "
 Aside from his generally bucolic nature, Mr. Harrison has reason to be cheerful. His doctors now wonder whether his diabetes diagnosis was really something milder, and he has had successful triple bypass surgery to relieve his heart problems.
 "I can run around like a kid again," he said the other day. "This is my third life, sort of. I had what they call a nervous breakdown in New York, and it took 10 years to recover from that.
 "Now, when I finish my last couple of commissions, I want to retire a little bit. For one thing, I'm going to get a power parachute, which is like an ultra-light aircraft. You don't need a license, and you can fly as high as 7,500 feet. And I have just bought a motor home, or what the State of California charmingly calls a house-car. Among other places, I want to go back to the Four Corners area."
 Not that Mr. Harrison plans to abandon composition. Having retired from teaching three years ago -- at San Jose State University and at Mills College in Oakland -- he accepted a number of commissions to fill the income gap. Now that his health has improved and his finances are more secure, he wants to return to what he's done all his life -- to explore music in all its ramifications, without pressure from economic imperatives.
 His fascination with all manner of Oriental musics, and his eagerness to explore in his compositions what he has learned from Oriental cultures, has led to the charge of pastiche, but he rejects it.
 "When I get interested in another kind of music," he said, "I actually study that music and learn to play it and comprehend it as closely as possible, as the people of that culture do from the beginning. I am now a practiced gamelan player, and know a lot of the repertoire. The opening movement of the 'Last Symphony' is almost entirely done in Javanese procedures. It's the procedures that interest me. I don't try to imitate."
 The score, dedicated "with love and astonishment" to the conductor Dennis Russell Davies, with the final Stampede movement "offered" to Mr. Colvig, is in the conventional four movements, although Mr. Harrison makes no pretense at following sonata-allegro form.
 
'Something Old and Something New'
 "For me a symphony is a large, serious work," he said. "One of the movements is a suite. My rationalization there is that the minuet-trio movement of the traditional symphony is a small suite already. In this instance I found I wanted to set some Coyote songs" (American Indian legends). "They were originally intended for gamelan," he said. "All of my big pieces have something old and something new. They're like marriages."
 Although parts of this score are written in what Mr. Harrison calls "my chromatic and dissonant style," which Mr. Davies particularly admires, it seems unlikely to win over East Coast hardliners who dismiss his music as too simple to be taken seriously. Which bothers Mr. Harrison not a bit.
 "I laid out my toys on a large acreage when I was young, and I've played with them all ever since," he said of his varied stylistic procedures. "The most important statement about that came from Ives. He set up a system of balances between styles, so I do that, too. Material gets transformed by what's on either side of it. I wonder if it's really eclecticism at all; it's more a narrative experience.
 "The notion that you have to get more and more dissonant is ridiculous," Mr. Harrison added. "I don't think increasing complexity is the answer to anything. In California and in the West generally, we're not afraid if a thing sounds pretty, and we're not out to terrorize everybody. I don't think significance is opposed to beauty."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The composer Lou Harrison, whose "Last Symphony" is to be performed tomorrow night at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. (Betty Freeman/Brooklyn Academy of Music)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CONCERTS AND RECITALS MUSIC COMPOSITION (91%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); DANCERS (78%); DANCE (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); WRITERS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); HEART DISEASE (63%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (63%); DIABETES (60%); VETERINARY SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: HARRISON, LOU; ROCKWELL, JOHN VIRGIL GARNETT THOMSON (57%); JOHN MILTON CAGE JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



32 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Jumps 1.1%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Consumer spending jumped 1.1 percent in September, the Government said today, outpacing a five-tenths of 1 percent growth in personal income and contributing to the lowest savings rate in three years.
The Commerce Department report "shows consumer purchasing power obviously is under intense pressure in the aftermath of the oil shock" from the Persian Gulf situation, said Stephen S. Roach, senior economist with Morgan Staney & Company. 
 Nevertheless, Mr. Roach added, "consumers are really sort of clinging tenaciously to their life styles."
"Their spending is holding up just fine," he said.
 
Waning Confidence
 The Federal Reserve reported separately today, however, that the confidence of consumers and businesses was waning in many regions of the country because of "greater uncertainty and higher fuel prices." Every one of the central bank's 12 districts was reporting either slower growth or an actual decline in economic activity.
The Commerce Department said that the incomes of Americans reached a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $4.7 trillion in September, a $23.8 billion increase over August.
At the same time, it said spending reached a rate of $3.73 trillion, up $39.9 billion from a month earlier. It was the biggest increase since a 1.2 percent gain last June.
In its report on the third-quarter gross national product on Tuesday, the department had said consumer spending from July through September rose 3.6 percent, well above the two-tenths of 1 percent advance from April through June.
But Mr. Roach of Morgan Stanley said he expected spending would drop to "the 1 percent vicinity" during the current quarter.
"There's no way we'll be able to hold up" the 3.6 percent pace, he said, "in the weak income and low savings environment."
 
Decline in Growth
 Consumer spending represents about two-thirds of United States economic activity, and Mr. Roach said a lower level of consumption this quarter would mean a temporary decline in overall economic growth.
But he said his company was not projecting a recession, which is defined as two consecutive quarters of declining gross national product, the total output of the nation's goods and services.
The Commerce Department report said the rate of Americans' savings as a percent of disposable income fell to 3.5 percent, down from 4.1 percent in August and the lowest since a 3.3 percent rate in October 1987.
The report said Americans' income after taxes increased by four-tenths of 1 percent, up from a two-tenths of 1 percent gain in August.
 
Adjusting for Inflation
 The spending and income figures were not adjusted for inflation. When adjusted, spending rose three-tenths of 1 percent, after declining one-tenth of 1 percent in August. Disposable, or after-tax, income fell three-tenths of 1 percent, compared with a five-tenths of 1 percent drop the previous month.
A key component of the income category -- wages and salaries -- rose $17.4 billion, up from $600 million the previous month.
The $39.9 billion increase in personal consumption, which includes all types of consumer spending except interest payments on debt, was up from a $20.1 billion gain in August.
Spending on durable goods -- relavitely expensive items expected to last more than three years -- totaled $487 billion, up from $477 billion from August.
Spending on nondurable goods rose $11 billion, to $1.2 trillion, following a $10.6 billion gain in August. Spending on services was up $18.2 billion, to $2 trillion, after a gain of $18.2 billion the previous month.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Personal Income from 4/89 to 9/90 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SAVINGS; INCOME COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMPTION (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



33 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Big Figure For Phils' .268 Hitter

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
If anyone thought this year's free-agent market would be less lucrative than last year's economic explosion, the contract that Darren Daulton and the Philadelphia Phillies agreed to yesterday should signal otherwise.
On a day when two longtime stars, George Bell and Fernando Valenzuela, became free agents, Daulton, a free agent with one decent season in the major leagues, gained a three-year contract worth $6.75 million. 
 It matched the most lucrative contract, based on annual average, ever given a catcher. Lance Parrish signed the exact same contract with California last December: a $500,000 signing bonus and salaries of $1.75 million the first year and $2.25 million each of the last two years. When Tony Pena signed with the Boston Red Sox as a free agent a year ago, he got $6.4 million for three years.
This year, Daulton earned $470,000, $425,000 in salary and $45,000 in bonuses based on plate appearances. Twenty-four catchers earned more money.
Players and agents entered this off-season period of free agency with some anxiety. After last year's cascade of $3 million salaries, they didn't know what to expect this year. They had heard owners and general managers say that money would not be as bountiful because of the pending penalty for three years of collusion against free agents. That penalty could reach, or even exceed, $10 million per club.
Those waiting for an answer to the anxiety didn't have to wait long. With four days still remaining in the free-agent filing period, the Phillies opted to re-sign Daulton, and for big money.
"My feeling was that was the marketplace," Bill Giles, the Phillies' managing partner, said. "My people feel he is probably the best catcher in the National League now, except maybe for Santiago, after what he did this year. Parrish got the same and Pena got almost the same. We didn't want to take a chance on anybody offering more and then us having to pay more."
Daulton, who is two months short of his 29th birthday, entered this past season with a .206 batting average for five years in the major leagues. Injuries, especially a torn knee ligament in 1986, hampered him during those years.
This year the left-handed-hitting catcher established career highs with a .268 average, 12 home runs, 57 runs batted in, 143 games played and 540 plate appearances.
"Everything came together at the right time obviously," Arn Tellem, Daulton's agent, said.
Giles said that negotiations with Tellem began about a week before the end of the season and continued through the filing period. From the time a player files for free agency until next Monday, only the team with which he finished the season can negotiate with and sign him. Beginning Monday, all clubs may sign any free agent.
 
Valenzuela Looking
 Valenzuela, a starting pitcher for the Los Angeles Dodgers for 10 years, made himself available to everybody. There appeared to be a strong chance that he would not return to Los Angeles, where he had become a celebrated hero with the Mexican-American community.
If Valenzuela, who had a 13-13 record this year, does move on, he may not have to stray far, either in geography or competition. He could move slightly south to San Diego, where the Padres need a starting pitcher and where he could also have a large following among Mexican-Americans.
Bell has been a major part of Toronto's perenially contending teams for seven seasons. He faltered this year, though, plunging to career lows with a .265 average and 86 runs batted in.
Also filing for free agency yesterday were Ron Oester of Cincinnati and Sid Bream and Ted Power of Pittsburgh.
Greg Harris, who could have become a free agent, agreed with the Red Sox on a two-year, $2.8 million contract.
 
Joint Meetings Called Off
 Because negotiators for the major leagues and the minor leagues could not reach agreement by yesterday on a new player development contract, the two organizations will not hold their annual joint meetings in Los Angeles in the first week of December.
The National Association, the umbrella organization for the minors, plans to meet in Los Angeles as scheduled, but the major leagues will go elsewhere, perhaps Chicago or Dallas.
If no agreement is reached by Nov. 15, the majors will proceed with alternative plans for their minor league teams for 1991.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Darren Daulton of the Phillies, who yesterday signed a three-year contract worth $6.75 million. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES DODGERS INC (75%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (93%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (93%); BOSTON RED SOX (56%); BOSTON RED SOX (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES

SUBJECT: CONTRACTS; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS) BASEBALL (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); BONUS PAY (75%); 

PERSON: DAULTON, DARREN MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



34 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: PRO HOCKEY: NOTEBOOK;
Blues' Star Is Looking Like a Million

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 31

 BODY:
With his game-winning goal Tuesday night in Detroit, Brett Hull of St. Louis has scored 15 times in the first 12 games of the season. That pace over the 80-game schedule would give him 100; the record is 92, set by Wayne Gretzky in 1981-82.
"I'm not going to talk about that," Hull said of his record pace. "It's 12 games into the season." 
 After leading the league with 72 goals last season and signing a new contract for more than $1 million a season, was Hull worried about a slow start?
"I was scared to death," Hull said, adding that he was deadly serious about his fears. Perhaps people would have said he is overpaid and complacent.
Hull said he is annoyed by negative publicity about how his salary is causing inflation for the rest of the league.
"I've never seen a business that doesn't win without spending money," he said. "There are so many great players who haven't been getting the money they deserve for so long it is scary."
When someone joked that, in view of his torrid start, he might be underpaid, Hull replied with a smile, "I'm not going to renegotiate."
 
Inquiry Into Bruin Victory
 Brian O'Neill, executive vice president of the N.H.L., viewed videotape in Boston yesterday with off-ice officials who work Bruins' home games in Boston Garden.
O'Neill is investigating events at the end of Saturday night's 5-4 victory by the Bruins. During the last minute of play, it appeared to many at the game that Chicago had tied the score.
But the goal light didn't go on and, some insist, the last seconds were allowed to tick off the clock after play stopped.
"The integrity of the game was jeopardized," said Mike Keenan, coach and general manager of the Blackhawks, who was restrained after the game when he tried to confront the off-ice officials.
"Why did the goal judge not put the light on? Why did the timekeeper continue to let the clock run out when the referee signaled a goal with three seconds left on the clock? Why did the referee not confer with the goal judge? Why did the referee not confer with the timekeeper until he had already made his decision? How can five people in this particular case make a mistake? This is not a witch hunt. It has to do with the integrity of the game."
Keenan said he has videotape that shows the puck in the net with time left on the clock. He said referees should use such videotape to settle such disputes.
After the game, Keenan charged that off-ice officials are hired by Harry Sinden, general manager of the Bruins, and should be dismissed. Sinden said today that the league hires them after the home team recommends them. Sinden also conceded, "Obviously, somebody erred."
 
Tour of Expansion Sites
 An N.H.L. subcommittee on expansion is scheduled to tour three cities in Florida on Thursday. Mike Ilitch, owner of the Detroit Red Wings, Marcel Aubut, owner of the Quebec Nordiques, and Gilbert Stein, the league's general counsel, will visit Tampa, St. Petersburg and Miami.
The N.H.L. has said it hopes to name at least two more expansion cities when its governors meet during the first week in December. Godfrey Wood, a Harvard goalie in the early 1960's, said he was optimistic that his Miami group would be chosen.
"Very much so," he said. "We've got a great market, a strong ownership group, a good facility. In terms of what the league needs -- major markets to expand into where they can build on their TV contract -- Miami and South Florida is the sixth-largest market in the country."
On the negative side, Wood said he could not yet reveal the names of investors who would put up the $50 million entry fee. Although ice conditions were terrible for an exhibition game there in September, Wood said those problems can be corrected easily. Although the potential team has a new building in which to play, it would have to share it with the Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT RED WINGS (69%); ST LOUIS BLUES (84%); ST LOUIS BLUES (84%); BOSTON BRUINS (54%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE WINTER SPORTS (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: BRETT HULL (94%); WAYNE GRETZKY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



35 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK CITY MARATHON;
Runners Have No Fear Before Hitting the Streets

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
More than 25,000 runners, a record, are expected to start the 21st New York City Marathon on Sunday. Nearly 24,000 others wanted to but were rejected for logistical reasons. That's a record, too. If New York's crime, urban squalor, high prices and economic decay have made headlines around the world, marathon runners from beyond the metropolitan area do not seem overly concerned. Maybe they have been too busy training.
"It doesn't matter," Robert Reekie, a 52-year-old civil servant from Fife, Scotland, said yesterday, as his wife, Linda, and daughter, Lynn, waited in line to register for the race. "We have always wanted to visit America; we have never been here before. Oh, we were warned about what to do in the subways and to watch our money. We also heard about all the rude people, rude policemen and rude taxi drivers. But so far, we haven't found any of them." 
 Hundreds of runners lined West 52d Street at the Sheraton Centre hotel, clutching the precious cards that identified them as entrants, all looking so eager for the race. If anything assuaged their fears about New York, it was the chance to join the spectacle of the world's most populous marathon, which this year has attracted more than 9,300 runners from 80 foreign countries and about 6,600 Americans from outside New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
 
It's Her Dream
 "It has been a dream of mine to run New York," said Dawn Balletto, a 24-year-old real estate saleswoman from Greentown, Pa., who has never run a marathon. "Everybody told me I was crazy to come to New York. One friend wished me luck and asked me if I had any Mace. I just laughed. My dream outweighs everything."
Most runners interviewed acknowledged an awareness of the problems of New York, including some of the more celebrated recent tragedies like the brutal attack on a female jogger in Central Park in April 1989 and the stabbing death of a tennis fan from Utah who was here with his family attending the United States Open in September.
But only a few of the out-of-towners expressed anything close to concern.
 
'It's Different'
David Collins, a 31-year-old first-time marathoner, grew up in New Jersey and moved to California 17 years ago. He lives in Novato, a town in the wine country north of San Francisco and only began to realize how different New York had become riding into Manhattan earlier this week.
"It's different," he said. "A guy came up to the window of the limo, asking the driver for money. Another guy wanted to wash the windows and tried to smash the windshield when the driver said no. The event itself, though, should be real safe. Racing has always been a safe atmosphere."
"I'm sure it's much the same here as in London," said Mike Swallow, a 48-year-old gymnastics coach from England on his first trip to the United States, which he built around his participation in the marathon. "Some people are frightened to go to Northern Ireland because of bombs and the I.R.A., and all that. For me, fear wasn't a factor at all. I've never been outside of England except for sport. I've been all over Eastern Europe, Africa, and I never thought twice about any of that."
Besides, all locales have their problems, even such a majestic spot as Banff, a resort town of 8,000 permanent residents in the Canadian province of Alberta. Jim Bennett is the town manager, a 49-year-old first-time marathoner, who by virtue of his job is well aware of the effects of negative publicity.
"Crime is receiving a higher profile right now," he said of New York. "But all cities have a certain crime rate. Ours is higher than the crime rate of most other towns our size. But New York's wasn't sufficient enough to dissuade me from running. My wife, I'm sure she would probably give you a different opinion. I would have to say that she was a little concerned. But I feel the positive things here still outweigh the problems."
Fred Lebow, the president of the New York Road Runners Club, which organizes the marathon, said he could recall no incident that marred any of the 20 previous marathons, although there had been occasional moments of alarm.
"I remember before the first marathon, in 1970, Gary Muhrcke told me, 'Fred, I'm a fireman, and you're flirting with disaster,' " Lebow said. "I remember being a little scared, too, but I was not going to let him get that feeling." The cause for concern had been threats by members of several gangs, suggesting that the marathon was trespassing on their "turf," as Lebow recalled.
"They had come to me, and they looked kind of threatening," Lebow said, amazed at their audacity. The marathon was little more than a cult event back then, with 127 starters and Muhrcke leading 55 finishers. "So I got an idea. I said, 'You know, I need some marshals in that area, and I'll give you T-shirts if you marshal the area.' They thought it was a good idea, so they got out there that day. The only trouble was, the area they guarded had no spectators."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juma Ikangaa of Tanzania, right, last year's winner of the New York City Marathon, talking yesterday with Zoya Ivanova of the Soviet Union. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: NEW YORK CITY MARATHON

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SCOTLAND (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ROAD RUNNERS CLUB (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MARATHON RUNNING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; RUNNING MARATHONS (93%); RUNNING (92%); ATHLETES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); TENNIS (76%); SPORTS (76%); CITIES (73%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



36 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: So Long, Faux: New Materials Woo Designers

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

 BODY:
WE are (thank you, Madonna) living in a material world -- materials like dichroic glass and hand-woven bauxite.
Contemporary designers are engaged in an exploration of ever-more technologically advanced stuff: from chameleonic glass that changes color to paints that shimmer differently from every vantage point. 
 This material world, and how architects and designers are responding to it, is the subject of "Mondo Materialis," an exhibition on view through February at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 2 East 91st Street in Manhattan. Organized by the Steelcase Design Partnership , an office furniture company, the show offers more than 100 collages executed in varying degrees of artiness by leading architects and designers. The curators of the show were Jeffrey J. Osborne, a design consultant, and George M. Beylerian, a vice president of Steelcase.
The participants were asked to create collages using materials they believed would be "relevant and inspirational" in their work in the next five years. Neoprene sheeting, anyone?
As their written statements suggest, texture and surface may be to the 90's what color and form were to the 80's. So long, faux; recent infatuations may be giving way to a new preoccupation with unadorned natural materials and some bizarre synthetic ones.
If these designers have their way, new high-tech wonders like Varilite Vision Panels , which change from clear to frosted with the switch of an electric current, may be wedded with humble materials like plastic laminate and particleboard. Luxurious materials like onyx, marble and granite may be replaced by raw steel, plastic, concrete and ceramics.
In today's tight economy, Mr. Osborne said, "People want inexpensive materials that look rich."
"Mondo Materialis" reveals a brave new world. According to Mr. Osborne, the slightly schizophrenic collages (one of them brings together black foal skin and rubber flooring) represent the coming together of the modernist love of new forms and materials with the post-modern interest in ornament.
"We're in a period of testing alternatives," said David Revere McFadden, the decorative arts curator of the Cooper-Hewitt. "Designers are intrigued by the sensuous qualities of surfaces."
Intriguing is certainly the word to describe the plastic hedge used by Casson Mann, a London design firm, and the wriggly purple plastic fishing worms by Lisa Krohn and Martha Davis of New York. In its collage, Larson Associates of Chicago combined bird's-eye maple, woven leather, corrugated fiberglass and hand-woven bauxite.
Though some of the mixtures of material seem right (Rosenberg/ Kolb's bringing together of flagstone, birch bark, crackle glass and iridescent glass), a few play rather heavily on liberal guilt (Nob & Non's panel depicting Earth as the "universal material").
There is a growing awareness that some materials are ecologically off-limits. Exotic woods are becoming the fur coats of design; synthetics seem destined for new respectability.
"The environment," said the designer Adam Tihany, in a rather dark premonition, "will force us to spend time finding ways to preserve, store and imitate the glorious materials of the past."
But theory and collages are one thing; how materials are applied in the real world is quite another. While "Mondo Materialis" only hints at future applications, the show's participants are already engaged in explorations of these materials.
Among the most promising are dichroic glass, which is coated with a special film and transmits a color while reflecting the color's complement; Electroluminescent Lamp , a plastic sheet that glows white with an electrical charge, and Syndecrete, a "high-tech material with a low-tech esthetic," according to its inventor, David Hertz, an architect. Syndecrete, made by Syndesis of Santa Monica, Calif., is half the weight of concrete but can be shaped, cut and sanded like wood.
The "new tactility," as some call it, addresses a hunger for the tangible and sensual aspects of design. Metals, are now being exploited for their craftsmanlike, rather than high-tech, qualities. To achieve new textures, Eric Chan, a product designer in Manhattan who is best known for his rubber phone designs, is experimenting with mixing plastics with sand and even hair. The furniture design firm of Godley-Schwan of Brooklyn is emphasizing raw woods and metals with no paint.
"The 80's were a little cool, with interiors that didn't seem to have much to do with the people who lived in them," said Lynn Godley, a partner in the firm. "Using materials in their natural state strengthens the connection between people and their objects."
In a showroom for Esprit, the clothing company, Michael Vanderbyl, a designer in San Francisco, covered the floor in black Astroturf. The bristly black floor was "familiar but strange at the same time," he said. Mr. Vanderbyl also likes the "rawness" of colored cinderblock and strand board, the rather ugly subflooring material that looks like big wood chips suspended in plastic.
Economic realities, he said, are furthering the drift toward unpretentious materials. "The budgets to do terrazzo and large marble entryways are drying up," he said.
Many designers are elevating common materials, an approach popularized by the Los Angeles architect Frank Gehry. Around a fireplace in a recently completed house in Marina Del Rey, Calif., Frederick Fisher, a Santa Monica architect, used concrete block and Spectraglaze, a colorful glazed concrete block made by Burns & Russell of Baltimore. He chose these materials for their "layered, fragmented" feeling, he said.
Others are looking to new technology for cues. Nicholas Goldsmith of FTL Associates, a New York architectural firm, uses the shiny stretch fabric associated with wet-look ski clothing to help illuminate walls. Bran Ferren of Associates & Ferren in Wainscott, L.I., is experimenting with electrochromic glass, an electrified glass, akin to liquid crystals, that can be "red in the morning and green in the afternoon," he said.
To Kevin Walz, a New York designer, part of the designers' responsibility in an era of limited resources is to redefine the public perception of which materials constitute quality. The adventurous Mr. Walz once used sandpaper as decorative wallpaper.
"It's time to give up the idea that the only idea of quality is what was done in English libraries a hundred years ago," he said.
This is not to say that granite and Carrara marble will become passe. But, as the New York architect Lee H. Skolnick points out, part of the designer's role is "coming to terms with what's out there."
For Mr. Skolnick, this includes corrugated fiberglass, used to make desks and platforms; steel mesh, recently chosen to cover a ceiling of a Long Island art gallery, and generous use of concrete, stucco, plastics and simple grades of wood.
In a new house for Suzanne Farver and George Berky in Aspen, Colo., the architect Harry Teague sheathed the entire structure in simple rusted corrugated steel. The house, on the site of an old ranch, is designed to recall weathered mining cabins. Time, and Aspen's semi-arid climate, will only enhance its quality, he said.
Many of the Cooper-Hewitt collages suggest that designers are preoccupied with recyclable materials. In prototype tabletop objects, Constantine Boym, a New York designer, explores the visual appeal of a new material that combines recycled plastic and sawdust.
And in what may become the most useful new material of the decade, Arthur Apissomian, a designer in Wadena, Minn., recently invented Permaprose, a plywoodlike material derived from recycled design magazines.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Frederick Fisher used particleboard and mosaic tile in his collage, above; and, right, glazed concrete block in a California house.;
Lee H. Skolnick's collage of metal mesh, rubber and cork is "a coming to terms with what's out there"; left, a plywood and stucco bathroom.;
Rusted corrugated steel figures prominently in Harry Teague's collage, above, and a new house he designed in Aspen, Colo., at left. (pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); COLORADO, USA (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: STEELCASE INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM (NYC); STEELCASE DESIGN PARTNERSHIP

SUBJECT: DESIGN; SHOWS (EXHIBITS); ARCHITECTURE ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); FIBERGLASS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); OFFICE FURNITURE (75%); OFFICE FURNITURE MFG (75%); SYNTHETIC RUBBER (72%); RUBBER & SILICONE PRODUCTS (67%); PLASTIC LAMINATES (64%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (64%); RESILIENT FLOOR COVERING (64%); FLOORING (50%); 

PERSON: BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



37 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Kollmorgen Lowers Estimates

BYLINE: REUTERS

DATELINE: SIMSBURY, Conn., Oct. 31

 BODY:
The Kollmorgen Corporation said it had lowered its estimates of earnings for 1990 and 1991 because of the costs of closing its motor operations in Sierra Vista, Ariz.; a $2 million settlement with the Vernitron Corporation over a terminated merger deal, and the current economic slowdown. The company said it now expects 1990 after-tax earnings from continuing operations of $6.5 million to $7 million.
Earlier, the company reported nine-month earnings from continuing operations of almost $4.1 million. The company's stock price rose 75 cents today, to $6.875, on the New York Stock Exchange, where its 12.2 percent rise was the fourth best of the day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DHR (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (95%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (95%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (95%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: DANAHER CORP (95%); AXSYS TECHNOLOGIES INC (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOLLMORGEN CORP

SUBJECT: FORECASTS COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MERGERS (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (84%); PRICE INCREASES (83%); STOCK EXCHANGES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



38 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
The Second Front

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
What European member of NATO has the largest standing army? What NATO nation borders on Iraq?
The answer to both: Turkey. That nation of 55 million people has armed forces, including gendarmerie, of 750,000; Iraq, by contrast, has a population base of 13 million, not counting its persecuted Kurds, and an army of 550,000 (three-fourths now in Kuwait) with reserves of another half-million. 
 Saddam Hussein, contemplating the next phase of his war against the world, is willing to gamble that he could endure sustained bombardment from the air; and he hopes to bog down the combined Western-Arab armies moving up from the south into Kuwait -- at least long enough to let cries of compromise rise in the West.
But what if there were a second front? That's what defeated Adolf Hitler. Turkey lies to the north, its fighting men proud of their reputation for being what Douglas MacArthur in Korea called "the bravest of the brave."
The Turks, with 15 percent of their forces now on Iraq's border, have not been friendly to Saddam Hussein. When the world looked away, Turkey took in 100,000 Kurdish refugees from Iraqi poison-gas attacks. Turkey was the first nation in the region to denounce the invasion of Kuwait, first to support U.N. sanctions and first to make the blockade count by shutting down Iraq's pipeline.
When James Baker travels to the region next week (why do we send a professional deal-cutter on a mission to avoid cutting a deal?) his most important stop will be in Ankara.
President Turgut Ozal has already welcomed U.S. F-111 bombers and F-16 fighters to his Incirlik Air Base; as the front-line state in the world squeeze on Iraq, he expects reimbursement from the Saudi-Kuwaiti war kitty of $7 billion for one year's loss of trade.
Turkey deserves that, as well as consideration of Mr. Ozal's request, made in the White House last month, for financing and sale of 120 F-16's to give some punch to Turkey's antiquated air force.
That lack of sophisticated weaponry -- many of its tanks are Korean War vintage -- has caused some U.S. strategists to downmouth Turkey's capacity to become a second front. They say President Ozal is not too popular at home, and claim that Turkish generals -- who do not control him -- are wary of displaying technological weakness in combat.
This overlooks Turkish concern with having a messianic nuclear aggressor to its south. It completely misses what the historian Thomas Kuhn called a "paradigm shift" in explaining the force of scientific change. When the model of perception shifts, amazing inventive changes take place all along the line.
Turkey's paradigm was the "bulwark blocking access to the Mediterranean by the Soviet Black Sea Fleet," and its border with the Soviet Union made it a front-line state in any attack on NATO by the Warsaw Pact. After the fall of Iran's Shah, it became our intelligence window on the East.
That concept of Turkey's role bought it a ticket to Western defenses and markets, even though Europeans treated Turks with cultural scorn.
But the old model of Turkey's place in the world is obviously crumbling. Turkish workers are being kicked out of Germany and Bulgaria; the European Community is closing its doors. What's to replace the old paradigm? With the Russians not coming, who needs the Turks?
Their future is in their other front line: not the one bordering the implosive Soviet Union and Asia Minor, but the one bordering explosive Iraq and the Middle East.
Turkey is Muslim but secular, a developing democracy with women emancipated; a free-market economy, and a friend to both Palestinians and Israelis. Despite its unproductive enmity with Greece, Turkey could be a bridge between West and Middle East. That's where the world will need the Turks.
In this new light, rethink the military possibilities. With allied aircraft using Turkey's airfields to provide tactical support, Turkish infantrymen driving on Baghdad would be more than a match for the divided Iraqi Army, its most modern elements trapped in Kuwait.
When the war begun on Aug. 2 is over, new boundaries will be drawn, as usual, to penalize the aggressor. Oil reserves should be shared among an independent Kurdistan, a helpful Turkey, a free Iraq and those nations that sacrificed most.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: TURKEY (95%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; TURKEY; IRAQ; ISRAEL

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); MILITARY BASES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); GENDARMERIE (77%); REFUGEES (73%); HISTORY (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



39 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: How to Rattle Iraq

 BODY:
President Bush is clearly seeking ways to put new pressure on Saddam Hussein. But he's floundering. He warns Iraq that he's prepared to attack, and snarls at mistreatment of American hostages. In the next breath, he tells Congress that U.S. troops in the Persian Gulf are in no imminent danger of war. He can't have it both ways and still send a credible message.
There's a better way: Invite Congress to debate the tough question of what happens if his present strategy of economic sanctions and military buildup fails to move Iraq. Mr. Bush has been reluctant to do that. Instead he hints at going to war on his own authority. He thus misses a chance to rally Americans behind his strategy and truly show Iraq that America intends to stay the course. 
 Why debate the possibility of war at all, especially if such a debate reveals serious disagreements, and thus risk increasing Saddam Hussein's intransigence? One reason is that for the President not to take the people into his confidence now invites recrimination later if war in fact occurs and casualties mount.
And the other side of the coin is even more urgent. To move Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait without a war, Mr. Bush needs both economic sanctions and a credible threat of war. To make it credible, he has to convince Iraq that the American people back him all the way.
Some people suggest that one way to begin the discussion would be for either Mr. Bush or Congress to invoke the War Powers Act. The act allows the President to dispatch troops abroad but requires that they be withdrawn within 60 days unless Congress votes for them to remain. Mr. Bush has shied away from invoking the act, contending that U.S. troops are in no imminent danger of hostilities. Closing its eyes, Congress accepted his claim, and then authorized him to call up reserves for 360 days without declaring a state of emergency.
Mr. Bush seems intent on going it alone. "History is replete with examples where the President has to take action," he said Monday.
He'd do well to reflect further on precisely those examples. Harry Truman, fearing a partisan debate over Korea, avoided Congress and went to the U.N. instead. That cost him popular support. Lyndon Johnson, instead of debating his Vietnam strategy openly, escalated by stealth. That undid his Presidency. And Richard Nixon made war on Cambodia without telling Congress. That alienated even some of his own partisans.
Presidents pay when they don't come clean with Congress. And there are other ways for Mr. Bush to do so short of the War Powers Act or a declaration of war. Congress could reconvene after the election and hold hearings on his gulf strategy. And the President could seek a joint resolution endorsing that strategy.
Whatever the method, the President and Congress have a duty to discuss and explain the circumstances under which they might take America to war, their reasons for doing so and the ends for which the war would be waged. The better the explanation of the policy, the more the public will support it. The more the public supports it, the less likely war becomes.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (88%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (88%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



40 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: No Time to Give Raises to City Workers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 While I agree with "Mr. Dinkins Faces Fiscal Reality" (editorial, Oct. 18), it does not go far enough.
We are in a recession heading toward a depression, and under these circumstances there should be no increases in salaries for government employees because every increase to a substantial number of workers will result in layoffs of other employees. 
 The difficulties Federal, state and municipal governments are having in formulating budgets that retain needed services make it evident that the income shortfall cannot be ignored.
Walk around New York City and see the ever-increasing number of vacant stores and offices in desirable locations. Look at the increasing number of employees at prestigious businesses laid off daily. Take note of the billions of dollars that will never be repaid that foreign governments owe our most important commercial banks. Observe the huge individual and government debt that cannot be liquidated in the foreseeable future.
The agreement with the United Federation of Teachers should be rescinded before it is put into effect. Although the teachers' union makes a valid argument that teachers of comparable skills and experience in the suburbs earn considerably more than those in New York City, it is questionable how long this situation will last.
Increasing numbers of taxpayers in Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester counties earn their livelihood in New York City, and it is not far to see that the economic recession in New York City will catch up with many of them.
There is no justification to increase wages of municipal employees, while firing their fellow employees to meet those costs.
 
HARRIS L. PRESENT
New York, Oct. 18, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); RECESSION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); SUBURBS (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



41 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Harvard Economist To Join World Bank

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH

 BODY:
Lawrence H. Summers, a Harvard professor and Keynesian economist who specializes in tax, labor and financial issues and who served as Michael S. Dukakis's chief economic adviser during his 1988 Presidential bid, is joining the World Bank as vice president and chief economist.
The appointment has caused some sniping from Washington conservatives but was endorsed by the Bush Administration.
Besides working with Mr. Dukakis, Mr. Summers, who is 35 years old, served as a domestic policy economist in the Council of Economic Advisers in the Reagan Administration and has been a consultant to the Labor and Treasury Departments.
He will replace Stanley Fisher, an international economist who just returned to his tenured professorship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Mr. Summers, whose annual salary will be around $120,000 after taxes, was picked after a list of possibilities had been narrowed from 60 to 4 -- three Americans and a Briton, said a World Bank official yesterday who requested anonymity.
Professor Summers holds the Nathaniel Ropes chair of political economy at Harvard. He has a Ph.D. from Harvard and joined the faculty in 1983, after a year as an associate professor of economics at M.I.T., where he had been an undergraduate. He will leave Harvard for two and a half years to serve the World Bank.
Although he has worked with the Governments of Jamaica, Indonesia and Mexico on debt and other financial problems, he is known more as a domestic than international economist, fitting into a mainstream consensus that has believed that the United States needs a tax increase to reduce its budget deficit.
In an interview yesterday, Professor Summers emphasized his position in mainsteam economics and elaborated on some of his views on taxation. He said he "recognizes that taxes have important adverse incentive effects, particularly on capital formation," but added that "taxes are the price of government services, and running budget deficits doesn't avoid pain, it only postpones it."
Some conservative critics, led by Senator Bob Kasten Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, have questioned the appointment because of Mr. Summers's support for higher taxes and his alliance with Mr. Dukakis. An aide said yesterday that Mr. Kasten was "disappointed because Mr. Summers does not share the President's economic views and does not have a grounding in development economics."
Although the World Bank is owned by 155 member governments, the United States, with about 20 percent of the agency's stock, has a big influence on its internal matters. An American has led the organization since its founding in 1945.
He will join the World Bank on Jan. 14, after the current Harvard term. He and his wife, Victoria, a lawyer, have twin daughters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAMAICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (70%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD)

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H; FISHER, STANLEY LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



42 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Looking Ahead at Fay's After a Top Resignation

BYLINE: BY DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
Fay's Inc., a drug-store chain in New York and Pennsylvania, has said that its president and chief operating officer, Lawrence J. Rose, has resigned to pursue other interests.
Henry A. Panasci Jr., chairman and chief executive, said yesterday that he would assume Mr. Rose's duties until a successor was named. 
 Mr. Panasci, who is 62, declined to elaborate on Mr. Rose's decision other than to say that "succession is not a part of this at all."
Mr. Rose, 49, has been with Fay's three years. He replaced Daniel A. Herrmann, who also resigned as president for personal reasons.
In a statement, Mr. Panasci said he accepted Mr. Rose's resignation with regret. "His contribution to Fay's during his tenure was significant," he said. Mr. Rose also resigned as a director.
Mr. Panasci co-founded the chain with his father in 1958. The company is based in Liverpool, N.Y., near Syracuse, the area in which the chain started.
Mr. Panasci's father is retired. The chief executive's son, David H. Panasci, 32, is president of the company's Paper Cutter division, which operates 25 stores in New York, Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
The Paper Cutter stores sell discount office supplies, books, greeting cards and party supplies. Other businesses include 190 Fay's drug stores and 26 Wheels discount auto supply stores.
The company has said that the auto supply and office supply chains, now relatively small, will take on increasing importance. Companywide sales last year reached $527 million.
Mr. Panasci, who owns about 24 percent of Fay's stock, said that despite recessionary concerns, business was "very strong," and that the Paper Cutter stores were "doing well."
Thomas R. Kully, an analyst at William Blair & Company in Chicago, agreed that Fay's had been doing well. "It had some earnings problems in last year's fourth quarter but it bounced back beautifully," he said.
As for recessionary times, Mr. Kully added: "I'd be a fool to tell you that any business is recession-proof. But I think the drug store is as close to recession-resistant as you can find."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry A. Panasci Jr., Fay's Inc. (Fay's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: FAY (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (93%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FAY'S INC (93%); WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAY'S INC

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS RESIGNATIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (78%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; ROSE, LAWRENCE J; PANASCI, HENRY A JR HENRY A PANASCI JR (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1990



43 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Case Offered By the Optimists

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
THE Government's report that the American economy expanded at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the third quarter startled economists who have been saying a recession has already started or soon will.
Many doubting economists said the official numbers must be wrong, because the Commerce Department had underestimated the rate of inflation and therefore overestimated the rate of real economic growth. They rejected the data, saying, "Wait for the next revision!" 
 But is it possible that the third-quarter G.N.P. data are telling a correct story and that the economy is stronger than most economists, business people and consumers believe?
Not all economists found the new numbers incredible. One who was not at all surprised was Gail Fosler, chief economist of the Conference Board, who predicted a month ago that third-quarter G.N.P. would rise at a rate of 1.8 percent, precisely as the Commerce Department says it did. She also forecast that real G.N.P. would slow to a 1.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter but would increase by 1.6 percent in 1991 and 2.5 percent in 1992. These days when a wave of pessimism is sweeping the country, Ms. Fosler is being called the most optimistic of forecasters.
Nevertheless, she regards what she calls the "recession discounting" by business as a source of economic stability. Many businesses, she said, "are already operating as though they were in a recession, holding down operating rates and employment levels, slowing investment plans, cutting costs to raise margins and profitability." As a result, order backlogs are stable and delivery times are lengthening.
She sees little danger of a huge lurch toward inventory-cutting, which is the usual trigger of a recession. For, despite the gloomy mood of consumers, as measured by surveys, consumer spendinghas been holding up. The Commerce report showed consumer spending, corrected for inflation, rising at an annual rate of 3.6 percent in the third quarter, as consumers cut their savings rate.
Ms. Fosler is by no means the last of the optimists. Some economists who focus on financial assets, especially the spread between interest rates on short-term and long-term assets -- the yield curve -- see no recession ahead.
Campbell R. Harvey of the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University is holding to his forecast that the economy will grow 2.2 percent between the third quarter of 1990 and the third quarter of 1991. Well aware of all the bearish talk in business circles, he says, "talk is one thing and action is another."
And he maintains that financial indicators reflect business actions affecting turning points in the business cycle far more accurately than surveys of expectations. Over the last 25 years, a flattening or inversion of the yield curve has correctly called all the major turning points in the United States business cycle but that is not what is happening now.
Using data similar to Professor Harvey's, the Experimental Index of Leading Indicators, developed by James Stock and Mark Watson for the National Bureau of Economic Research, is forecasting strong economic growth of nearly 4 percent in the next several months, with only a minuscule probability of 3 percent that the economy will be in recession by next February.
The Stock-Watson index derives its prediction of such strong growth mainly from the spread between interest rates on 10-year and one-year Treasury securities and between six-month commercial paper and six-month Treasury bills.
 Despite the historic correlation between these financial indicators and business-cycle turning points, could they be misleading now? George R. Perry of the Brookings Institution says they could. He suggests that the long-short spread might be giving off a false signal now because the Federal Reserve, to avoid the risk of causing a recession, is not raising short-term interest rates to check inflation. And he contends that long-term interest rates may be kept relatively high by such special factors as heavy long-term borrowing for the savings and loan bailout and the retreat of some Japanese investors from the American bond market.
He finds the lack of a recession signal coming from the private-Treasury spread baffling, and suggests that the data used in the Stock-Watson index do not reflect the downgraded credit ratings of well-known companies or the yield spread between "junk bonds" and Treasuries, which he says is soaring.
But Professor Harvey denies that such data are now signaling a recession. Using the spread of interest rates between Baa and AAA bonds, as rated by Moody's, he notes that the spread between low-quality and high-quality bonds rose to 262 basis points in 1982 before the recession, and above 300 basis points before earlier recessions, but has been rather stable since, oscillating gently between 121 in October 1983 and 126 in October 1990, with only a small uptrend in recent months.
Recession could still happen if the current extremely pessimistic psychology should translate into a self-fulfilling prophecy by causing consumer spending and business investment to plummet, or if war in the Persian Gulf should send oil prices soaring. But the Fosler, Harvey and Stock-Watson analyses offer hope that recession can still be avoided.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INFLATION (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); YIELD CURVE (84%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); 

PERSON: FOSLER, GAIL; SILK, LEONARD MARK E WATSON JR (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



44 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
$2.4 Billion in Bonds Retired in RJR Swap

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Moving to cut the huge debt from the biggest leveraged buyout in history, the RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation said yesterday that it had retired $2.4 billion in high-interest bonds by swapping them for cash and stock.
RJR said the swap, which is part of a $6.9 billion recapitalization program begun in July, will give bondholders cash and stock in the company in exchange for the bonds.
The debt was incurred in the company's $25 billion leveraged buyout, completed early last year. 
 By retiring the bonds now, the privately held company avoids a steep increase in interest rates that would have taken effect in April. Instead, Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company, the major owner of RJR Nabisco, obtained fresh bank loans in July to lower its debt and increase equity.
RJR Nabisco Holdings is the parent company of RJR Nabisco Inc., the tobacco and food conglomerate.
Since RJR Nabisco was taken private after the takeover battle that began in late 1988, the "junk bond" market that made the deal possible has plunged. But, unlike some other companies with heavy debt loads, RJR has managed to reduce its interest costs.
In its most recent quarter, RJR paid total interest expenses of $845 million, compared with $983 million in 1989's third quarter. It had a loss of $83 million in the quarter, compared with a loss of $447 million in the year-earlier quarter. With more than $15 billion in sales last year, the company ranks among the 25 largest manufacturers in the United States.
The current exchange involves two issues: a senior convertible debenture due in 2009 and a subordinated debenture due in 2007. For every $1,000 in debt tendered, RJR will pay $333 cash and will grant stock valued at $667.
RJR said that based on a preliminary count of tenders, 91 percent of the senior bonds would be replaced with RJR's cash and stock package, while 34 percent of the subordinated bonds tendered would be exchanged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (90%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: KRAFT NABISCO (90%); KKR & CO LP (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: RJR NABISCO HOLDINGS CORP

SUBJECT: FINANCES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CORPORATE BONDS; STOCKS (CORPORATE) BONDS (93%); HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); GOING PRIVATE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



45 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN ADAMANT ON CONTROL OF OIL

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 1

 BODY:
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari today strongly defended his ground-breaking efforts to open the Mexican economy to the outside world.
But he emphatically rejected any weakening of Government control over the country's lucrative oil industry, and pointedly asserted that any liberalization of Mexico's tightly controlled political system would remain an exclusively Mexican affair. 
 Speaking before more than 2,000 Government officials, legislators and dignitaries in his second annual State of the Nation address, Mr. Salinas said an open economy was vital to protect Mexican competitiveness in the face of a rapidly changing world.
But he asserted that the Mexican political system, which has long been dominated by his Institutional Revolutionary Party, was "not subject to external evaluation."
 
Remarks on Oil Applauded
 "Our democracy is sovereign," Mr. Salinas declared. "There are no limits placed on discussions of our democracy, but there is only one definitive judge, and that is the Mexican people."
As in the past, Mr. Salinas's comments on politics were greeted by howls and hoots from opposition politicians, who have accused the ruling party of widespread fraud and asserted that the President rose to office in a fixed vote in 1988.
At several points during the speech, opposition congressional delegations in the audience began heckling Mr. Salinas with chants of "fraud" and other political epithets, at times forcing him to stop speaking.
But Mr. Salinas drew general applause for his adamant position on Mexico's state-run oil industry, which many Mexican politicians and commentators believe should be excluded from talks toward a new free trade agreement with the United States. And the language of his address, which is closely watched for clues to future Government policy, seemed to leave little room for compromise on the oil issue.
"I want to confirm the fact," Mr. Salinas said, speaking about the trade talks with the United States, "that Mexico will maintain its ownership and complete dominion over hydrocarbons."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET POLITICS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: UHLIG, MARK A; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) CARLOS SALINAS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



46 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Silver Prices Rise Sharply Amid Hope of Fed Rate Cut

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Silver futures prices rose sharply yesterday on the Commodity Exchange in New York, extending a recovery from 15-year lows, in a rally fueled by technical factors and speculation that interest rates might fall soon.
Gold futures also rose, while those for platinum fell.
Silver futures settled 7.6 cents to 7.9 cents higher, with the contract for delivery in December at $4.256 an ounce. 
 Gold ended $1.60 to $2.10 higher on the Comex, with the active December contract at $383.10 an ounce; the current November contract rose $2.10, to close at $381.50 an ounce.
Platinum futures were $2.70 to $2.90 lower on the New York Mercantile Exchange, with January at $435.70 an ounce.
Silver prices have risen 5 percent since Monday, when the December contract touched a 15-year low of $4.05 an ounce amid perceptions of slackening demand and rising supplies of the metal.
Analysts said much of silver's recovery yesterday reflected technical buying signals derived from chart analysis.
The rally yesterday was also prompted by expectations that an anticipated decline in payroll employment and a rise in the national unemployment rate would prompt the Federal Reserve Board to move to lower lending rates, said Stephen W. Platt, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Chicago.
The Labor Department is scheduled to release the monthly employment data tomorrow.
Higher stock prices also supported silver yesterday. The metal's price tends to respond to economic indicators because silver has many industrial applications.
Tim Evans, a trader with Deak International Inc., said the silver market appeared to have established a trading range of $4.25 to $4.35 an ounce.
"I would guess that in the short term, barring any major events, we're going to have a dull, trading-range kind of market," he said.
On the Chicago Board of Trade, grain and soybean futures ended mostly higher, helped by speculation that the United States will grant export credits to the Soviet Union before Election Day on Tuesday.
The buying was at least partly stimulated by speculation that the Bush Administration would take the long-expected step of declaring the Soviet Union a most-favored trading partner in an attempt to help Republican candidates from farm states, said Joel Karlin, an analyst with Research Department Inc., a Chicago brokers' advisory service.
The most-favored designation would make the Soviet Union eligible for credit on purchases of agricultural commodities. The Soviets are believed to be seeking export credits to buy American corn and soybean meal.
Wheat futures settled 1/4 cent to 3/4 cent higher, with December at $2.62 1/4 a bushel; corn was 1/4 cent to 3/4 cent higher, with December at $2.29 3/4 a bushel; oats were 1/4 cent to 1/2 cent lower, with December at $1.21 a bushel, and soybeans were 1/4 cent to 4 cents higher, with November at $5.96 a bushel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (67%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PRICES; SILVER FUTURES (95%); SILVER MARKETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); OATS MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MEAL MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (68%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



47 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Broadly Weaker As Rates Rise Overseas

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell against all major currencies but the Japanese yen yesterday amid further signs of a weakening United States economy and rising interest rates overseas.
The dollar was pushed lower in European trading after an announcement by Germany's central bank that it was raising the Lombard rate, a crucial interest rate, by half a percentage point, to 8.5 percent. Traders sold the United States currency to buy marks. 
 Although dealers knew a German rate increase was inevitable to finance the cost of reunification of East and West Germany, the timing of the move caught the markets by surprise, said Bob Morrissey, senior trader at the Bank of Boston's office in New York.
 
 Signs of Weakening
 When trading shifted to the United States, the already weakened dollar was hit again by a Government report showing a sharp rise in initial jobless claims for the week ended Oct. 20 and a separate report from the nation's purchasing managers indicating the manufacturing sector weakened again last month.
Further, the Commerce Department said construction spending sank 2.8 percent in September, its sharpest plunge in eight years.
Because of the bearish indicators, traders expect the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates. Such a move would erode the value of dollar-denominated securities, and with interest rates rising overseas, incentives for foreign investors to put money in the United States is declining.
"The German move illustrates the direction of international interest rates and highlights the lack of interest-rate support for the dollar," said Marc Chandler, an analyst with IDEA in New York.
Against the German currency, the dollar fell to 1.5035 marks, from 1.5185 on Wednesday. The dollar also weakened against the British pound, which rose in London to $1.9525, from $1.944 late Wednesday. In New York, it cost $1.945 to buy one pound, more expensive than Wednesday's $1.943.
But the dollar rose against the Japanese currency, settling in New York at 130.56 yen, up from 130.15 yen on Wednesday. Earlier in Tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing 130.7 Japanese yen, from 129.35 yen on Wednesday. And in London, it traded at 130.4 yen.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Wednesday's rates, included: 1.2753 Swiss francs, down from 1.2865; 5.0410 French francs, down from 5.0855; 1,127.25 Italian lire, down from 1,138, and 1.1643 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1668.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US DOLLAR (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



48 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: A Warning to Taxpayers: Deductions Under Attack

SERIES: The New Tax Law - Last of five articles: A Challenge To Precious Deductions

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
Long accustomed to a tax code that helps them achieve their most cherished financial goals -- home ownership and a decent retirement, for example -- Americans are being treated rather rudely. And that raises questions of how to plan for the future.
The Tax Reform Act of 1986, which snatched deductions for Individual Retirement Accounts away from the more affluent taxpayers and phased out everyone's deductions for consumer interest, began to chip away at the tax benefits people had come to expect. 
 The deficit-reduction measure approved by Congress on Saturday invaded more sacrosanct territory: deductions for interest on home mortgages, charitable contributions and state and local taxes. The invasion was by the back door, not addressing any of these deductions directly, but putting a floor on the total of itemized deductions equal to 3 percent of adjusted gross income above $100,000. Congress left people asking, 'Is this the thin edge of a wedge?'
 
 A 'Hidden' Increase
 The floor on itemized deductions is "a hidden rate increase," said William J. Goldberg, national director of personal financial services for KPMG Peat Marwick in Houston, who added that it raises concerns for the future. His advice to anyone shopping for a home today is: "Be conservative. Be sure you can pay the mortgage interest and real estate taxes without tax deductions."
What about people who already have big mortgages, which they took in the belief their after-tax cash flow would be sufficient to cover the payments? "They're stuck," Mr. Goldberg replied, noting that "there has been an absence of grandfathering" since the 1986 act.
"They're not going after the perceived middle class," he added, but the upper and upper-middle classes could face more ugly surprises and will need to reorder their finances to cover mortgages, for example.
The bill held other pain for individuals, phasing out personal exemptions for the more affluent and extending the 1.45 percent Medicare portion of the Social Security tax to earnings of $125,000, well past the $54,600 where old-age and disability insurance collections will stop next year.
"It's more a collection of tax nibbles that one big tax bite, but it adds up," Mr. Goldberg said. "There is no one big thing to plan around."
John G. Wilkins, a partner in Coopers & Lybrand's Washington office and the firm's director of tax policy for economic analysis, predicted the tax package "will probably last for a year -- then we'll be back in a pickle again." The next time Congress tries to raise money, corporate taxes are likely to be affected, he said, "but ultimately, individuals pay corporate taxes."
"The thing that bothers me is the creeping up in rates," Mr. Wilkins said, because high rates spawn unproductive tax shelters. One possibility, he said, is that capital gains would stay at 28 percent after 1991 but rates on ordinary income could go higher than 31 percent.
 
 Tax-Deferred Savings
 George E. L. Barbee, who is in charge of personal financial planning for Price Waterhouse in Boston, advised people to contribute as much as they legally could to tax-deferred retirement savings plans like Keogh and 401(k) plans, especially if the employer matches contributions.
"Don't lose the opportunity," he said. "At least we know where it is this year -- $7,979" for 401(k) contributions. "With legislation driven by deficit reduction, there are no sacred cows," he continued.
Joel S. Isaacson, partner for personal financial planning at Weber Lipshie & Company in New York, advised taking advantage of other employee benefits now available. Putting pretax compensation into flexible spending accounts for medical and child-care expenses will lower the adjusted gross income as well as avoid taxes on money in the plan, he noted.
Mr. Barbee said: "I think one has to be terribly conservative. The recession is here. Economists in Washington may war over words, but it is here." Repay debt, he said, first nondeductible consumer debt, then home equity debt, and do not count on the deduction to be there forever.
 
 'Cash Is King'
 David A. Berenson, national director of tax policy for Ernst & Young in Washington, agreed that "cash is king now." The time to raise taxes was five years ago, not now, as the economy slides, he said. As for the 1986 tax act, which treated capital gains as ordinary income and imposed a maximum bracket of 28 percent, "that deal is blown out of the water," he said.
"The one thing that is certain is constant change, permanent uncertainty," he said, forecasting more changes in the tax law in coming years for two reasons: the need for further deficit reduction and to address the confusion that is bound to arise as a result of the complexities in this package, which he called "shameful, unconscionable."
The situation "does not bode well for employee benefits, the biggest thing not on tax returns," Mr. Berenson said, adding that "bad ideas, once they raise revenue, tend to grow."
 
 Others in Jeopardy
 Sidney Kess, a New York tax lawyer and certified public accountant, cited other tax benefits that could be curbed by future legislation. One is tax-free exchanges, which are often used in real estate. Gift and estate-taxes could be raised in several ways, and the right to give gifts up to $10,000 annually tax free could end, he said. Upper-income taxpayers frequently make such gifts to family members over a period of years because estate taxes go as high as 55 percent.
With the economy heading toward a slump and many companies cutting costs, many professionals agreed that people should give more importance to these factors in personal financial planning than to taxes. For example, given the change in rates next year, with a top rate of 31 percent compared with the 28 percent for some taxpayers this year and 33 percent for others, when should a year-end bonus be taken?
"Take it when you can get it, if you're a big hitter," said Byrle M. Abbin, managing director of Arthur Andersen & Company's Office of Federal Tax Services in Washington.
 
 Giving to Charities
 Economic concerns are also overriding when it comes to deductions for contributions to charities. Neal P. Myerberg, chief executive of the UJA-Federation's Department of Planned Giving and Endowments, said that when people see real need, they come through.
Top tax brackets were cut in stages from 91 percent to 50 percent and now 28 percent, reducing the value of deductions accordingly. Yet every year, contributions have risen, Mr. Myerberg said, because people have seen the need for his group's programs like relocating Russian Jewish refugees.
"It's more and more of a human plan," he said, "and less a tax plan."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (62%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (62%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (62%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: KPMG LLP (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); MEDICARE (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



49 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Global-Lender Aid Is Seen For Debtors Hurt by Crisis

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund is expected to move Friday toward getting more and faster financial aid to countries feeling the economic shock from Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, American and other officials said today.
"The whole idea is to make the fund more flexible in dealing with members' requests for cash," said an international official who insisted on not being identified. 
 While technical in nature, the steps could help about 40 countries that have been affected by the adverse consequences of higher oil prices, lost exports, reduced pipeline and canal revenues, decreased worker remittances, the return of thousands of displaced workers and other problems resulting from the invasion.
Countries closest to the area of tensions -- Jordan, Egypt and Turkey -- are hardest hit. Also severely affected are countries that are heavily dependent on imported oil and worker remittances, like Morocco, Pakistan, the Sudan, Bangladesh, India, the Philippines and Sri Lanka.
 
Vulnerable Eastern Europe
 Eastern Europe is particularly vulnerable as well, I.M.F. officials said. Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia are suddenly paying more for oil while undertaking revolutionary economic readjustment.
Referring to all affected countries, the fund's managing director, Michel Camdessus, said in a speech in New York last week, "An effort of solidarity in their favor is required."
The moves, which are in line with proposals made in September by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, would be taken at a meeting of the executive board, comprising senior officials representing the 155 member governments of the Washington-based lending organization.
It was unclear whether final decisions would be made on Friday or whether more sessions would be required to tie up loose ends. An American official said she did not expect final action at the meeting.
 
World Bank's Role
 The World Bank, sister agency of the I.M.F. and fellow lender to many third-world countries, has a task force assessing the steps it would take and is expected to hold a board meeting in 10 days to consider its response to the crisis.
The aid issues were initially reviewed in September in Washington when the two lenders, which together commit about $30 billion annually to third-world countries, held their 45th joint annual meeting.
An overall assessment of the situation is expected Monday, when a special steering group organized by President Bush to coordinate economic assistance meets in Rome.
It would be the third session of the so-called Gulf Crisis Financial Coordination Group, which includes the I.M.F., the World Bank and about 20 governments. Two earlier meetings were held in Washington. One reason for the selection of Rome was that Italy is currently heading the European Community's Council of Ministers.
 
Economic Emergency Cushion
 On a worldwide trip in September, Mr. Brady won commitments of $20 billion in economic and military assistance in support of the gulf operation. The aid was pledged from countries like Japan, West Germany, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates and is separate from money to be disbursed by the fund and the World Bank.
The steering group is to manage the $13 billion to $15 billion of that sum that has been earmarked for economic assistance, American officials said.
The objective of the Rome meeting, a Bush Administration official said, "is to get a handle on the exact amounts of money involved and turn commitments of donors into actual disbursements." The American delegation is being led by Under Secretary of the Treasury David C. Mulford, who will serve as chairman.
The I.M.F. has what it calls a Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facilty, which has been used in the past to cushion economic emergencies like destruction of a sugar crop by a hurricane or a sudden rise in global interest rates.
One of the proposals expected to be taken up on Friday is to broaden the criteria for use of that special pool of money to include reductions in oil-pipeline and canal-transit fees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (93%); KUWAIT (93%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MOROCCO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); ITALY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%); POLAND (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (54%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; EGYPT; TURKEY; JORDAN

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



50 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: A Crucial Lending Rate Is Raised by Germany

BYLINE: By FERDINAND PROTZMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BONN, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Germany lifted one of its two primary lending rates today, bucking the international trend toward lower interest rates. Economists said the move could rekindle a dormant dispute between Germany and its trading partners over its restrictive approach to monetary policy.
The rate increase reflected the deepening concern at the Bundesbank, Germany's staunchly independent central bank, with the Government's plans to finance German unity almost exclusively through the capital markets. That stance has pushed up the cost of borrowing and brought an element of uncertainty to the nation's financial markets.
 
 Takes Effect Friday
 The Bundesbank's policy-setting central bank council raised the nation's Lombard rate to 8.5 percent, from 8 percent, effective Friday. The increase was decided upon at the council's regular biweekly meeting today. 
 The Netherlands also raised its maininterest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. Other European countries that often mirror the Bundesbank's policy moves did not immediately react. Some European financial centers were closed for the All Saints' Day holiday.
Germany last altered interest rates on Oct. 5, 1989, when it lifted the Lombard rate and the longer-term discount rate by a percentage point each, to 8 percent and 6 percent, respectively. Commercial banks peg their lending rates to the discount rate, which was left unchanged at 6 percent.
The Lombard rate is the interest the Bundesbank charges on short-term borrowings by commercial banks using securities as collateral. It is intended as a last-resort borrowing mechanism that effectively acts as a ceiling for interest rates.
 
 Some Warning Signs
 Economists and financial market participants were not surprised by the move.
"There were some signs of a Lombard increase on the horizon for the past week," said Ulrich Ramm, the chief economist of Commerzbank A.G. in Frankufurt. "But I didn't think the Bundesbank would choose to do it now, so soon after the French and the Americans cut their interest rates.
"I believe it is a show of strength by the Bundesbank, sending the message that they are sticking to their course," Mr. Ramm said. "But this risks increasing tensions over monetary policy within Europe and with the Americans."
 
 Technical Adjustment
 The Bundesbank presented today's increase as a technical adjustment meant to strengthen its ability to steer Germany's money market, saying that the historical gap between the Lombard rate and market rates had recently been lost and that this would restore it.
Surging demand for credit since the two Germanys merged their economic and monetary policies on July 1 has pushed money market interest rates higher, and in recent months they have hovered between 8 percent and 9 percent. Banks have made extensive use of the Lombard program because it was cheaper than the call money rate, the interest paid on funds borrowed overnight from the central bank, which has been at or above 8 percent for weeks.
The combination of heavy Lombard borrowing and high market rates had severely undermined the Lombard rate's function as a ceiling, economists said.
 
 Cuts by U.S. and France
 On Wednesday, France cut its leading interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point, after the United States Federal Reserve Board had moved the Fed funds rate down by the same margin earlier in the week. Both nations were acting to bolster sagging economic growth.
Germany, by contrast, is increasingly concerned that its economy is overheating, in part because of an avalanche of pent-up consumer demand from the eastern section of the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (84%); CBK (FRA) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (77%); 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK (WEST GERMANY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; GERMANY

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INTEREST RATES (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); 

PERSON: PROTZMAN, FERDINAND

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



51 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Gloomy Outlook for Global Talks on Farm Trade

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The European Community's continued failure to agree on a common negotiating position on agriculture has deepened pessimism over whether four years of talks aimed at liberalizing world trade can conclude successfully early next month.
Government officials from the United States, Japan and developing countries, as well as the European Community, have warned that the collapse of the negotiations could set off a disastrous wave of protectionism that could seriously cripple world trade. 
 Agriculture is considered the make-or-break issue. A huge gap exists between the United States, which has pushed hard to end agricultural subsidies, or at least to reduce them, and the European Community, which has opposed such changes. And Europe has not even been able to adopt a unified position from which to negotiate.
 
 German and French Opposition
 A summit meeting of community leaders in Rome last weekend ended with Germany and France refusing to endorse a proposed 30 percent reduction of farm export subsidies over the next 10 years. Even if the Community agreed on that it would be far short of a proposal made by the United States and broadly backed by the leading food-exporting countries that export subsidies be cut by 90 percent over 10 years and overall farm supports by 75 percent.
A new effort to break the deadlock will come in informal negotiations starting Friday at the headquarters in Geneva of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the 105-nation world body that oversees trade. And agriculture and trade ministers of the 12 European Community nations will meet in Brussels on Monday.
 A group of 13 food-exporting nations known as the Cairns Group and Canada, Brazil, Argentina and Australia, will also meet in Geneva on Sunday and Monday. Some members say they may walk out of the broad trade talks. "We want to produce a crisis in these talks," Argentina's Agriculture Secretary, Felipe Sola, said today.
 
 Other Areas Discussed
 Although agriculture is only one of 15 areas in which the reduction of trade restraints is being negotiated, the lack of progress there is holding up negotiations in other areas, including services, textiles and telecommunications.
Many trade officials say that only a conference of top-level ministers of the GATT nations has a hope of breaking the deadlock. Those ministers will meet in Brussels in early December.
Some governments have suggested postponing the Brussels meeting to provide more time for negotiations. But the United States objects because Congress has given the Administration authority to negotiate only until March 1. Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, has said the first two months of 1991 will be needed to prepare legislation for Congress.
"The situation now is a lot worse than anyone ever contemplated it could be," Canada's Trade Minister, John Crosbie, said after last weekend's community summit. He added that France and Germany "are apparently prepared to see the whole Uruguay Round fail." The four-year round of trade talks is known as the Uruguay Round because the talks began in that nation.
 
 Power of Farmers
 Farmers throughout Europe benefit from a range of generous subsidies, but France and Germany are blocking a sharp reduction of agricultural protectionism because of the political weight of farming lobbies in both countries.
With Germany to hold general elections on Dec. 2, Chancellor Helmut Kohl is believed to fear a defection of rural votes from his Christian Democratic Party if he accepts the negotiating position proposed by the community's executive commission.
In contrast, Britain and the Netherlands, where small farms are less numerous, have long criticized the community's agricultural policy on the grounds that consumers and taxpayers are handing over $100 billion a year to shield 11 million farmers from market forces.
The United States itself is channeling some $8.5 billion in subsidies to 2.2 million of its farmers this year and providing other indirect assistance to stimulate production. But it claims that it lost $11 billion in farm exports last year alone because of European protectionism.
 
 Other Damaged Nations
 No less important is the trade lost by other food exporters, particularly in the third world. Argentina, for example, claims it lost 25 percent of its farm export income last year because of protectionism in Europe and the United States.
Further, several Eastern European countries and the Soviet Union are counting on farm product exports to help them consolidate their moves toward market economies, but their natural market in Western Europe is currently largely closed to them.
"The greatest single gesture to perestroika that Western Europe can make is to provide open, rich markets that will give this European breadbasket a chance to recover from Communism," The Economist of London said last week. "Mr. Kohl talks of handing aid to his Eastern neighbors, even as he denies them their real need -- trade."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); BELGIUM (93%); CANADA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (53%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PROMOTION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



52 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Report By U.N. On Arabs

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the report submitted to the United Nations Security Council by Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar on the Palestianians in the Israeli-occupied territories:
 Palestinians have expressed a profound feeling of vulnerability at all times, whether in the workplace, at school, in places of worship or simply walking down the street. This fear was compounded by their view that there was no recourse to any authority, other than the security forces who were so often responsible for the measures inflicted upon them.
They have stated that they feel unsafe even inside their homes, which were frequently subjected to midnight searches, and during which entire households, including children, were beaten. It was said that arrests during such operations were common. A wide range of collective punishments had, they said, become routine during the past three years, such as curfews, the demolition of homes, administrative detention and the uprooting of trees.
A system of arbitrary and heavy taxation had been imposed, which if not complied with, might lead to the confiscation of personal property and even arrest. Furthermore, the Palestinians have complained bitterly about a number of longstanding Israeli practices: the taking of land, especially for Israeili settlements and the privileged access that these settlements were given to water supplies; the closure for prolonged periods of the universities, and the periodic closure of elementary and high schools, which, in the Palestinian view amounted to a denial of their right to education, and the overall economic exploitation of the territories.
Palestinians emphasized that their distrust of the Israeli occupation authorities -- be they the security forces charged with maintaining law and order or officials of the Civil Administration whose role affected most aspects of their daily lives -- had grown so deep that they felt that only an impartial presence, properly mandated by the United Nations, would be able to provide them with a credible sense of protection.
In this connection, many of them drew attention to the military observers stationed in Jerusalem at the headquarters of the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization , and inquired why they could not be assigned to monitor the situation in the occupied territories.
While they expressed appreciation for the humanitarian efforts carried out by representatives of international agencies and voluntary agencies, they were nevertheless deeply frustrated that those organizations were prevented from intervening or unable to intervene more effectively on their behalf.
 
Israeli View of Strife
 During the past three years I have had occasion to meet with a number of senior Israeli officials in New York, and have frequently voiced to them my concern about the situation in the occupied territores. In discussions with me, and with members of my staff in the area, the Israeli authorities have maintained that measures such as administrative detentions, curfews and the closure of schools and universities have been carried out in order to restore calm in the territories.
Israel's position has been, and continues to be, that it retains exclusive control over the territories it administers. Furthermore, the Israeli authorities point out that even under the Fourth Geneva Convention it would be for them to maintain law and order in the territories.
According to them, their policy during the past three years has been to put an end to the unrest in the territories which, in their view, is fomented by elements from the outside.
They note that the security forces are adhering to strict regulations determined by the Minister for Defence and that violations of those regulations are punishable. In response to expressions of concern regarding the need for the safety and protection of the Palestinians, the Israeli authorities point out that the many Palestinians who have been killed by other Palestinians should be a matter of equal concern to the international community.
Had it been possible for me to end a mission to the area at the present time, it would have followed up on the discussions begun last summer with the Israeli authorities and the Palestinian leadership. The Israeli authorities indicated at that time that they would be implementing new measures in the territories.
It should be noted that, in the subsequent months, there was a decreased military presence in the occupied territories and a decline in casualties resulting from actions involving the Israeli security forces there.
 
Practical U.N. Steps
 Further, there has also been a reopening of certain academic institutions. Nevertheless, the essential facts of the occupation have not changed and the potential for friction and confrontation between Israelis and Palestinians has remained very high, as evidenced by the tragic events of Oct. 8, 1990. The spate of violent attacks that have occurred since then, with more bloodshed on both sides, has generated further mistrust and bitterness.
The issue before us today is what practical steps can, in fact, be taken by the international community to insure the safety and protection of the Palestinian civilians living under Israeli occupation. Clearly, the numerous appeals -- whether by the Security Council, by myself as Secretary General, by individual Member States or by I.C.R.C., which is the custodian of the Geneva Conventions -- to the Israeli authorities to abide by their obligations under the Fourth Geneva Convention have been ineffective.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); CHILDREN (77%); CURFEW (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



53 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Purchasers Index Declines To Lowest Level in 8 Years

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Steeper energy costs, declining production and higher unemployment helped to push the nation's manufacturing economy in October to its lowest level in eight years, the nation's purchasing managers report.
Their monthly survey also found that new orders fell last month and prices increased sharply. Economists said the figures provided further evidence that inflation is growing and the nation's economy is entering a recession. 
 The National Association of Purchasing Management said its index of economic activity fell to 43.4 percent, registering its fourth consecutive monthly decline. It was the weakest showing since December 1982. The September index stood at 44.4 percent.
A reading below 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally declining; a reading above that level suggests expansion. The October index of economic activity was the fourth consecutive month in which the reading fell below the 50 percent mark. The index also remained below 50 percent in the first three months of this year.
 
 Growth of About 1% in 1990
 "If the purchasing managers' index remains unchanged at the October level for the remainder of the year, then past experience indicates this would be consistent with real gross national product growth of about 1 percent for all of 1990," said Robert Bretz, chairman of the association's business survey committee and director of materials management at Pitney Bowes Inc.
The purchasing managers' report is considered an important economic indicator because managers from a wide range of industrial companies across the country are surveyed. It is also the first important indicator released each month.
The report also comes a day after the release of a Federal Reserve survey that indicated that the economy was continuing to weaken, particularly in retailing. The survey found that economic activity in September was expanding more slowly or declining in most of the Federal Reserve's 12 districts.
And two days ago the Gvernment reported that the gross national product grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate during the third quarter, higher than the rate of four-tenths of 1 percent in the second quarter.
Neal M. Soss, chief economist with the First Boston Corporation, said of the purchasing report: "The numbers indicate that we are sliding, but not tumbling, into recession. I suspect things will remain the same for the rest of the year."
 
 Imports Decline
 Imports declined for the sixth consecutive month, although at a slower rate than in September.
Production registered a sharp decline in October, with the index falling to 43 percent, from 45.1 percent in September. The survey said the continued weakness in new orders suggests no near-term improvement in production.
Prices rose sharply in October for the fifth consecutive month, with the price index rising to 76.4 percent, from 73.4 percent in September. The increase in prices, the association said, was almost entirely a result of the Persian Gulf crisis and increases in the prices of crude oil, petrochemical feed stock and petroleum derivaitives.
The association listed 47 items that were up in price, up from 40 items in the September survey. Thirteen items were listed as being down in price, compared with 16 items in the September survey.
The employment index declined in October to 40.7 percent, from 41.5 percent in September. The October rate is the lowest since May of 1985, when the index stood at 40.4 percent. The figure "indicated that manufacturers continue to adjust employment levels to reflect the declining economy," the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

COMPANY: PITNEY BOWES INC (67%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); RECESSION (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



54 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Pushed Up By Job Data

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
An unexpectedly large rise in weekly unemployment claims reported yesterday helped to push up prices of Treasury securities and drive down interest rates as traders speculated that the ever-weakening economy would prompt the Federal Reserve Board to move quickly to ease credit again.
The report, released early in the session by the Labor Department, suggested to traders that today's October employment report will be even weaker than people in the market had anticipated. 
 The claims numbers showed an increase of 33,000 in the week ended Oct. 20, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 454,000. It was the second straight week that the claims increase had exceeded expectations.
 
 Effect of the Budget
 Responding to Congressional approval of a new Federal budget, the central bank signaled Monday that it had reduced the Federal funds rate, an important short-term interest rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans. That reduction, by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 7.75 percent, was not viewed as sufficiently large enough to prompt a decline in either the prime lending rate charged by commercial banks, consumer borrowing rates that are pegged to the prime or in residential mortgage rates.
"People seem to be getting on the recession story and are looking for a second ease in policy," one government bond trader said.
Based on the new jobless claims figures, economists are now anticipating that nonfarm payroll employment may have declined by as much as 100,000 jobs last month and that the unemployment rate, currently at 5.7 percent, may have risen by one-tenth or two-tenths of a percentage point.
 
 If Unemployment Rises
 "If the unemployment rate goes up, the Fed would probably have to move," the trader said.
Before the claims figures came out, most analysts were anticipating that nonfarm payroll employment rose modestly in October.
Although overshadowed by the jobless claims figures, the results of the monthly survey of purchasing managers across the country, as well as a report on construction activity during September, provided additional evidence that the economy is sliding into recession, market participants said. [Page D5.]
The reports showed that activity in manufacturing and construction had fallen to its lowest level since 1982, the last time the economy was in recession.
"Conditions are no longer soft; they are weak," said Mitchell Held, chief financial economist at Smith Barney Harris Upham & Company.
The economic reports encouraged heavy buying, traders said.
"People who have not played in a long time are back in the game," said one trader of short-term Treasury notes.
Talk of recession helped to push down both long-term and short-term interest rates in the secondary market for Treasury securities.
By late in the day, the 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 100 3/4, up 23/32, to yield 8.67 percent, down from 8.75 percent late Wednesday.
Among note issues, the 8 3/4 percent 10-year notes were offered at 101 3/8, up 15/32, to yield 8.53 percent. And the 7 3/4 percent two-year notes rose by 5/ 32, to 100 6/32, to yield 7.64 percent.
Rates on short-term Treasury bills fell.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.04 percent, down 5 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates dropped 6 basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.01 percent. And one-year bill rates slid by 8 basis points, to a late rate of 6.83 percent.
 
 Move May Be Too Quick
 The quick move in short-term interest rates over the past few sessions may be overdone, some traders said.
"The market is beginning to price itself toward the next easing in Fed policy, but I don't think it is going to happen before Thanksgiving," the short-term note trader said. "Betting on the Fed has not been a smart thing to do this year."
The drop in interest rates over the past few days encouraged a number of corporations to offer new debt issues yesterday.
Among the issurs was the GTE Corporation, which became the first company in some months to price a traditional 30-year bond.
Since late summer, uncertainties about the Middle East and the outlook for interest rates, among other factors, have persuaded most companies to satisfy their financing needs by issuing short- to intermediate-term securities.
The $400 million worth of 10.25 percent GTE bonds, which mature Nov. 1, 2020, were priced at $98.984 to yield 10.36 percent, 1.65 percentage points above the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds at the time of pricing.
Paine Webber Group acted as lead manager for the issue, which is noncallable for 10 years. The securities are rated A-3 by Moody's Investors Service and A by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
 Tax-Exempt Issues
 In the tax-exempt municipal bond market, the Metropolitan Water District of Chicago sold $100 million worth of bonds at competitive bid.
A group led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets won the issue, which consists of serial bonds with maturities from 1992 to 2010.
Coupons on the bonds range from 5.80 percent in 1992 to 6.70 percent in 2000 to a maximum of 7.20 percent in 2010.
The securities are rated AA by both Moody's and Standard & Poor's.
In the secondary market for municipal bonds, traders said prices of most issues had risen by about 1/4 of a point.
Participants in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds said prices had inched about 1/8 of a point higher.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported yesterday that two of the three measures of the nation's money supply declined in the week ended Oct. 22. The third, largest measure, M3, rose by $1.6 billion.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Tax-Exempt Yields. (source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. D12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); RECESSION (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (68%); PERSONAL DEBT (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



55 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 2; Foreign Desk

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Red Sea 'Highway Patrol' Pulls Over Another Tanker

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 20 members of Boarding Team Alpha speeding toward the Greek container ship Zim Venezia after it was stopped in the Red Sea yesterday by the guided missile cruiser Biddle. The ship was inspected for possible violations of the embargo against Iraq and allowed to proceed. "We're the Red Sea Highway Patrol," said Gunner's Mate William Kitchens of Lakeland, Fla., a member of the boarding team, which has been stopping an average of three vessels a day. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); RED SEA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; RED SEA

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) POLICE FORCES (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



56 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Set At Morgan Stanley

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley & Company said yesterday that it would eliminate 50 investment banking jobs, or 6 percent of the 800-member division. It is expected that this round of cuts will be followed by investment banking layoffs at other Wall Street firms.
Similar layoffs have taken place at Paine Webber Inc. and Shearson Lehman. But Morgan Stanley's are significant because of the firm's reputation. It is considered a corporate finance powerhouse and its investment bankers are generally viewed as the elite of Wall Street and were instrumental in arranging some of the biggest deals of the 1980's. 
 Investment banking is considered one of the most prestigious and profitable lines of business on Wall Street, and while the securities industry has been swept by layoffs in other areas, this is the first time a brokerage firm of Morgan Stanley's caliber has cut investment bankers.
 
 'No Clear Precedent'
 A spokesman for Morgan Stanley said the cuts would come from all four investment banking areas: corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions, capital markets and real estate. He said those being let go range from junior analysts to "quite senior people," although the spokesman declined to indentify the employees involved.
"These layoffs are a reflection of the firm's feelings about the business outlook in the intermediate-term future," said the spokesman, who spoke on the condition he would not be identified. He added that there was "no clear precedent" for the layoffs and that "nothing quite like this has happened before."
The layoffs come at a time when Morgan's overall earnings have been holding up. But its investment banking revenues have fallen steadily throughout the year. For instance, in the second quarter, investment banking fees dropped by 30 percent from the period a year earlier, and were down 8 percent in the third quarter from the 1989 quarter.
"The true earnings of the firm have held up relatively well this year," the spokesman said. "But you've certainly seen the statistics on merger activity so far this year, and the outlook for that is uncertain at best."'
 
 'Not Surprising'
 Michael Goldstein, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said the layoffs reflected "the basically weak business environment."
"This is not suprising," he added. "I've been expecting the entire Street's investment banking capacity to contract because investment banking revenues have been at their lowest level since 1984 and a lot of jobs were added since then."
But investment banking, which generally involves raising capital for American companies and arranging financing for mergers and buyouts, has been hard hit by the economic downturn as well as the stagnation of the "junk bond" market. American corporations are not raising money to expand and the number of mergers and buyouts has fallen sharply since their heyday in the 1980's.
The Morgan spokesman said the layoffs would have no effect on fourth-quarter earnings and that no charge would be taken. By the end of the year, he said, he expected that the investment banking department would number about 750, and he added that no further investment banking layoffs were planned.
 
 Expansion Abroad
 The firm has about 7,100 employees, up from 6,600 at the beginning of the year. But the expansion has taken place in Morgan Stanley offices overseas, primarily in London, Tokyo and Hong Kong, and not in New York.
Morgan is not planning any major structural changes as a result of the layoffs, but the spokesman said the firm would merge its capital markets, debt and equity operations.
Since the 1987 market crash, employment in the securities business has fallen by 50,000, to 210,000. But most of the cutbacks have resulted from the collapse of several firms, most notably E. F. Hutton & Company and Drexel Burnham Lambert.
At the same time, profits in the industry have been battered. The double-digit profits of the early 1980's have shrunk to an average of 4 percent since 1987, according to the Securities Industry Association. Pretax return on equity, which averaged 50 percent in the 1980's, has fallen to an average of 7 percent since the market crash, the association reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (98%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (93%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STANLEY & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WALL STREET (NYC)

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); STOCKS AND BONDS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); BONDS (89%); MERGERS (88%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); DISMISSALS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



57 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Faces The Painful: More Taxes

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEVINE

 BODY:
In a year in which New York State increased taxes by $1.3 billion, its largest rise ever, and New York City imposed $817 million in new taxes, its largest rise ever, economists and even politicians are worrying about how much more a faltering city economy can afford.
"We're removing income right and left from consumers," said Rae D. Rosen, senior economist at the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. "We're squeezing corporate profits. It exacerbates what was a very poor situation to begin with." 
 Still, with the economy slumping, tax revenues have been disappointing, even as crime and other problems raise demands for more spending. Washington, with budget problems of its own, is unlikely to offer new aid. So it seems almost inevitable that new local taxes will be needed if the city and the state are to erase budget deficits for next year, as they must under the law.
The question is, which taxes will inflict the least harm on the city's declining economy?
 
Weighing the Property Tax
 If local taxes must be raised, some economists, including Dick Netzer, a professor at the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University, recommend the property tax, the only major tax New York City can raise without first getting permission from Albany. And they say that much of the new burden should be borne by homeowners, who have long been protected by statute and by politicians afraid that if taxes get too high, homeowners will turn their wrath on officeholders -- or simply move out of the city.
In 1977, 45 percent of the property taxes the city collected came from residential property and 55 percent from nonresidential -- largely commercial -- property. By last year, the residential share was down to 37 percent and the nonresidential share up to 63 percent. During that time the percentage of local tax revenue from the property tax dropped to 43 percent from 51 percent.
"Just simple, across-the-board raising of taxes scares me," Professor Netzer said. "It's only low for those properties that were favored: Class 1 properties and co-ops and condos. That's where I'd press."
Class 1 properties are one-, two- and three-family homes. Professor Netzer also suggested that land values in the city be re-examined and the assessment on undervalued residential and commercial parcels be pushed up.
But if it was politically hard to increase taxes on residential properties during good times, when property values were soaring, what are the chances of imposing increases at a time when values are falling?
In searching for new revenue, economists say, city officials will inevitably bump up against the weakening economy, tax rates that are already high, or both.
 
Sluggish Retail Sales
 For example, raising the sales tax in the city -- already 8.25 percent -- would be likely to depress retail sales at a time when they are already weak. Similarly adding to the relatively high tax on real-estate transactions in a slow market might be counterproductive. Raising the city's tax on cigarettes -- now 8 cents a pack -- might spur smuggling from lower-tax areas.
Even before this year's round of tax increases, the city's Tax Study Commission -- a panel established in the more prosperous days of 1986 -- recommended the elimination or reduction of the city's commercial rent tax. This tax, which is imposed on tenants in properties used for business, is in addition to the property tax paid by the owner.
The commission, in its report in December 1989, also called for reducing or ending the unincorporated business tax, which is applied to income from partnerships and proprietorships -- income that is already taxed under the city's personal-income or nonresident taxes.
The commercial rent tax and unincorporated income tax are rarely found elsewhere, and the panel said they contributed to "negative impressions of the city's business climate."
But these two taxes also raised about $1 billion a year, a sum the panel acknowledged could not completely be replaced through other taxes.
 
New Federal Aid Unlikely
 The commission concluded that "the state and the Federal Government must assume a more equitable share" of the city's costs in providing welfare and medical care for the poor. But given the fiscal problems in Albany and Washington, it seems unlikely that much new aid will be available.
As the city's economy has deteriorated -- 34,000 jobs were lost during June, July and August -- concern about the impact of new taxes seems to have intensified.
Last month, for example, when the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins proposed raising $1.8 billion in new revenues over four years to hire 6,000 additional police officers, business leaders and others who had pressed the Mayor for a response to a surge of violence seemed relieved.
But Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, says that developers' support for the plan will depend on the extent to which the rest of the Mayor's budget relies on additional taxes.
Instead of raising property taxes, the Real Estate Board has proposed expanding the city's tax incentive program -- in effect, forgiving some of the taxes on new projects that it argues will not be built otherwise.
The New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry and its sister organization, the New York City Partnership, last year gave state leaders in Albany a list of taxes that it said could be raised, an unusual move for such business groups.
"I've been haunted by that a long time," said Ronald K. Shelp, the president of the groups.
This year, Mr. Shelp said, the state and city will have to make a case that they have cut costs and increased productivity. "Then you can talk about taxes," he said. "Not before."
 
Threats to the Economy
 Higher taxes threaten the weak city economy in several ways. They siphon money that might otherwise be spent by consumers, reducing retail sales and the demand for services. Perhaps even worse, they put New York City at a further disadvantage in competing with other localities for businesses or residents, especially at a time when the city is cutting services and when taxes just across the Hudson in New Jersey are much lower, even after recent increases there.
Like spending by consumers, spending by government can stimulate economic activity. But Richard K. Vedder, an economics professor at Ohio University, said he believed the "growth-enhancing effects" of government spending were less significant than the "growth-impeding effects," largely because taxes must be collected to pay for the spending.
"My own research leads me to believe that high-tax states and high-tax cities would be engaging in an act of self-destruction, or at least hurting themselves if they continue to add taxes in the midst of a decline," he said, echoing the sentiments of business leaders and economists in the city.
Besides the immediate economic consequences, some worry that ever-higher taxes will reinforce an image of the city as anti-business, which could be especially destructive in a slump.
"Part of it is that intangible thing of climate and business outlook," said Charles Brecher, research director of the Citizens Budget Commission, a private organization that studies government finances and is sponsored by businesses.
 
Lessons of the Past
 In some ways the city can be considered a case study of the effects of higher taxes in an economic slump. In the years leading to the fiscal crisis of 1975, New York raised taxes year after year, even as its economy was collapsing and hundreds of thousands of jobs were disappearing.
The city abruptly and unexpectedly reversed its slide in 1977, and there was an attempt to stablilize tax rates and in some cases lower them, especially on the state's part. Even with stable or declining tax rates, though, revenues rose as the economy expanded and property became more valuable.
Although New York City already has 24 separate taxes, Professor Netzer suggested that it might consider adding one: a tax on vehicles driving into midtown and downtown Manhattan, an idea the city itself put forth a few years ago when the goal was to reduce air pollution, not raise money.
A congestion tax, which could be levied through special license plates or windshield stickers, might raise as much as $500 million a year, Professor Netzer said, and it would improve business conditions for some industries, like trucking.
In any case, by taxing traffic, New York City would at least be singling out a commodity in which it is still rich.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TAXATION; REAL ESTATE; HOUSING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); SALES TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (64%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (56%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



58 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: With Budget Wars Ended, Frantic Campaign Begins

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 1

 BODY:
What Representative Wayne Owens calls his "nervous factor" hit new heights today when a man named Milt phoned him on K-TALK radio here to register his complaint that Congress had dithered over the budget deficit.
"I feel like Congress is fiddling while Rome is burning," said Milt, who admitted to deep uncertainty about voting next Tuesday to return Mr. Owens, a Democrat, to Washington. "We're in such a deep deficit problem, and you guys didn't cut anything." 
 To incumbent members of Congress stumping around the country this week, the refrain is all too familiar. After the longest pre-election Congressional session since World War II, lawmakers are finally back in their districts and are faced with compressing what should have been a final month of campaigning into a week. They also are confronted by voters who have almost nothing nice to say about them.
 
An Unsettling Time
 It is an unsettling time for many of the incumbents. While they are overwhelming their rivals with campaign money and other perks of incumbency that should help the great majority of them get re-elected, it seems clear that many lawmakers would rather still be wrestling with the budget than with angry voters. They are being chastised for not acting soon enough to bring down the deficit, for raising taxes and Medicare fees and, some say, for making Congress look like a laughingstock.
Then there is the uncertainty brought on by the threat of war in the Persian Gulf. On top of that, incumbents whose only presence in their districts of late has been on television are racing against the clock to show their faces.
In San Diego, Representative Jim Bates said one constituent had told him, " 'I like you and like what you're doing, but I want to vote against Congress and the only way to do that is to vote against you.' " Mr. Bates, a Democrat, said frankly, "I'm prepared to lose."
In Methuen, Mass., Connell J. Vincent did not mince words when he confronted Representative Chester G. Atkins this morning at a senior center. "You need a lot of help, Mr. Atkins," Mr. Vincent told the Democrat, "and not just mine."
Mr. Atkins replied, "You know we've been there to help you with Medicare."
"Well," shot back Mr. Vincent, a retired machinist, "how is it going to help me when it goes up $50?"
 
Frantic Campaign Efforts
 In the suburbs of Philadelphia, Representative Curt Weldon, a Republican, was frantically crisscrossing his district, trying hopelessly to make up for the 55 campaign appearances he missed or canceled because of Congress's late adjournment.
In Hawaii, Representative Patricia Saiki, a Republican in a tightly contested Senate race, said the truncated campaign season "is absolutely wild." Interviewed on a cellular phone as she raced to Honolulu Airport on Wednesday morning for a flight to Hilo on the Big Island, she added breathlessly, "I'm running on a full tank of adrenalin."
And in Salt Lake City, framed by the snowcapped Wasatch Range, Representative Owens, who as the sole Democrat in Utah's Congressional delegation faces a spirited challenge, perhaps best summed up the fears of incumbents on the radio show today: "This has been a traumatic time. People don't feel like Congress has behaved in a seemly fashion."
Clearly understating his worries, he added, "It may not be the best time for an election."
The 53-year-old Mr. Owens knew he was in for a rough week when he picked up The Salt Lake Tribune on Monday, his first morning back from Washington.
 
'Summarily Furloughed'
 In a letter to the editor, a friend of 25 years and a former campaign treasurer, Louise Hess, declared that all of Congress should be "summarily furloughed."
"Any person who spends more than 30 consecutive days in Washington, D.C.," she wrote, "becomes infected with a debilitating and even deadly virus that is so pervasive and all-encompassing that as soon as one's mouth opens, one's thinking and reasoning centers completely shut down."
Mr. Owens said he has had some sleepless nights of late, thinking about a replay of his "nightmare of 1974," when he gave up his House seat after one term to run for the Senate and lost in an upset to Senator Jake Garn.
After years as president of a Mormon mission in Montreal, practicing law in Salt Lake City and running unsuccessfully for governor in 1984, he was re-elected to the House in 1986. Though Mr. Owens holds an edge in polls, his Republican rival, former state Representative Genevieve Atwood, has gained steam in the surveys.
Sitting on a sofa in his district office Wednesday while Barbara Bush was in town stumping for Ms. Atwood, Mr. Owens fretted about "Mrs. Bush and her Mormonly demeanor and appeal -- that's what makes it nervous time."
 
Barbara Bush's Support
 At the same time, Ms. Atwood was milking the First Lady's visit for all it was worth, cutting short a debate with Mr. Owens so she could greet Mrs. Bush. "I'm a President Bush supporter right down to my underwear," Ms. Atwood, a former state geologist, proclaimed to her supporters.
Perhaps Ms. Atwood was so emphatic about declaring her loyalty to Mr. Bush because at times it had seemed as though Mr. Owens had more closely toed the Administration line.
The Congressman holds the odd distinction of being the only House Democrat who is facing a strong challenge but voted for the budget summit agreement that his fellow incumbents deserted in droves.
"My pollster, Doug Schoen, called from New York and said, 'You fool, don't even think of doing that. She'll kill you on this,' " Mr. Owens recalled. But the Congressman bucked his advisers and, as was expected, Ms. Atwood seized on his vote.
"Do you believe in higher taxes? Wayne Owens does," the announcer intones in an Atwood television commercial. "Do you believe citizens should pay twice as much for Medicare while cutting benefits? Wayne Owens does."
 
Returning Fire
 Mr. Owens, whose campaign is flush with political action committee donations, has returned fire in television advertisements that have blanketed the district, and in debates, in which he links her to conservatives who led the rebellion against the initial budget package.
"I am totally supportive of his deficit-reduction efforts," Mr. Owens said of the President. "Genevieve's decision to go with the Newt Gingrich firebombing group in the Congress of the United States isolates her from all the Republicans in this state."
Despite his tough talk, it is almost comedic the way Mr. Owens is sprinting around his district to make up for lost time.
This week, he has scheduled 13 debates, 11 fund-raising events, 60 phone calls for more money, and six mornings and evenings of waving at passing motorists. Wedged in between, he expects to sign 900 thank-you notes to contributors.
Multiply that by the 406 House members and 32 Senators seeking re-election.
 
'Very, Very Worried'
 "I was very, very worried about this campaign -- it's a tough one," said Representative George E. Brown Jr., a Democrat of Southern California, who is threatened by increasing Republican registration in his district. "Getting out here one week before the election is just not going to give me much of an opportunity to recoup."
When Mr. Brown did make it to the district for a debate during the budget impasse, he was ridiculed by his opponent for leaving behind important business on Capitol Hill. Another Californian, Senator Pete Wilson, the Democratic candidate for Governor, relied heavily on broadcasts from the Capitol by satellite to get his message to the state's voters.
As he made his way around a lunchroom for elderly people in Massachusetts today, Mr. Atkins observed, "People like to see you. They want you to ask for their vote. And they don't understand if it's election time and you're not around asking."
But for other incumbents, being stuck in Washington was something of a political godsend.
"Actually, it has worked out nicely from a strategic standpoint because we were able to put some strong surrogates in the field speaking on behalf of the Congressman," said Robert Hinkle, a spokesman for Representative Bill Sarpalius, a one-term Democrat from the Texas Panhandle who is in one of the country's most hard-fought House races.
"And the Congressman has been very stately in Washington, diligently working in this economic crisis."
Representative Ben Jones, a Democrat from suburban Atlanta, did not seem fazed about spending a week instead of a month in his district.
"I suppose that missing fund-raisers and forums hurts, but how can you tell?" he asked. "You can't measure an event that didn't happen."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; FINANCES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); MEDICARE (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



59 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Construction Outlays Fall 2.8 Percent

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Construction spending fell 2.8 percent in September, its steepest drop since the last recession, the Government said today. Analysts said any recovery is at least months away.
"Given what we see now, we have several more months to go before we can say we've hit the bottom," said Daryl Delano, an economist with Cahners Economics in Newton, Mass.
The Commerce Department said total construction spending, which was flat in August and July, was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $428.7 billion in September -- the lowest dollar level since $423.1 billion was spent in November 1988.
 
 Drop in Confidence
 Declines in all categories led to the sharpest tumble since a 3 percent drop in January 1982 during the 1981-82 recession. September spending was 1.1 percent below the $433.4 billion spent in September 1989.
"The weakness across the board probably reflects the overall decline in business confidence to go along with the well-documented decline in consumer confidence," Mr. Delano said.
The Conference Board, a New York business research group, reported last week that consumer confidence in the economy plunged 24 points in October to its lowest level since the last recession.
The construction industry also has been hurt by high interest rates, tight lending requirements and, in some areas, high vacancy rates. It has not posted an increase since it rose four-tenths of a percent last March.
The Labor Department has reported the loss of more than 100,000 construction jobs in the last four months alone. This included 20,000 jobs in September, after seasonal adjustment.
Residential construction spending fell 2.3 percent, to an annual rate of $182.2 billion, after a 1.1 percent decline in August.
Spending on construction of single-family houses was down 2.7 percent, to $105.6 billion, after a 1.9 percent loss the previous month. Apartment construction declined 3.7 percent, to $18 billion, after being unchanged a month earlier.
Nonresidential spending fell 2.3 percent, to $101.8 billion, after a 4.8 percent plunge in August.
"The weakness is more pervasive now than it was even three months ago, when we still had good industrial spending, fairly good retail and other commercial spending as well as spending for education and hospitals," Mr. Delano said. "Those that had been good are at best holding their own now and the others are continuing to deteriorate."
Government construction spending, which rose 6.5 percent in August, fell 5 percent in September, to $109.3 billion. Spending on streets and highways, which paced the August advance, was off 3.5 percent in September.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Total construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally adjusted annual rate. (source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); RECESSION (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTEREST RATES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



60 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: Packaging and Public Image: McDonald's Fills a Big Order

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
As recently as a week ago, the McDonald's Corporation was preparing to respond to public pressure for a cleaner environment by announcing that it would extend its limited plastics-recycling program to all of its 8,500 restaurants nationwide.
But then the fast-food chain changed course, announcing yesterday that it would do away with its plastic foam "clamshell" hamburger box and switch to paper packaging. That abrupt decision came largely as a result of an unusual alliance forged in August with the Environmental Defense Fund, people involved in the discussions said. 
 The change to paper, which will start in about a month, is an indication of the way public pressure can affect the decision-making process of a company, particularly one as concerned about its image as McDonald's.
 
How Customers Feel
 The company had insisted to the end that its foam packaging was environmentally sound. But "our customers just don't feel good about it," said Edward H. Rensi, the president of McDonald's U.S.A. "So we're changing."
McDonald's has gone far beyond being a mere seller of hamburgers -- it is a national institution. So the last thing it needs is to have schoolchildren be told it is a force of evil, damaging to society. If it appeared to be putting profit over the environment by stubbornly staying with a material widely regarded as detrimental to the environment, the company risked alienating many of the same younger customers who avoided buying tuna caught by methods that kill dolphins.
"Customer demands are changing," said Jonathan Asher, a vice president of Gerstman & Meyers, a design firm. "In the past, convenience was the most important attribute of a package. Now there is a new need: to be sensitive to the environment."
The process by which McDonald's decided to switch to paper illustrates how a giant company can work with special interest groups. Well before the move, McDonald's had established a joint task force with the Environmental Defense Fund to study how to deal with the company's solid-waste problem. When it decided last week that it would stick with recycling, Frederic D. Krupp, the executive director of the fund, was able to call directly to Mr. Rensi to object.
"When we learned they were planning to go to comprehensive recycling, we reacted strongly," said Mr. Krupp during a joint interview yesterday with Mr. Rensi at company headquarters in Oak Brook, Ill. "We had the access due to te program."
Mr. Rensi said Mr. Krupp's protest prompted a top-level management review of the company's approach to packaging. "Fred called on Thursday while I was in New York," he said. "When I got back in the office on Friday, I called Shelby Yastrow, who heads our environmental work, and told him to get some people together and study whether we should get rid of foam and switch to paper."
Data Were on Hand
Mr. Rensi indicated that the company had already been studying the feasibility and economics of the switch, so most of the data needed to make a decision were on hand. "We already knew we could switch to paper and save money," he said.
Mr. Rensi said the company was also aware that public concerns about the environment and solid waste have been growing. "All you have to do is look at the evening news to know that," he said.
Mr. Krupp said the environmental group is not against recycling, but felt that it was not economical to recycle polystyrene and that the benefits of a switch in materials was greater. "The hierarchy is: reduce, reuse and recycle," he said. "The new packaging has 90 percent less bulk than the foam."
Weighing all the factors, the company decided early this week to make the change. "It was not a complicated management process," Mr. Rensi said. In a statement, the company said: "Although some scientific studies indicate that foam packaging is environmentally sound, our customers just don't feel good about it."
 
One of Many Voices
 Mr. Krupp said the environment fund was "one of many voices" influencing McDonald's on the paper-versus-foam issue. But he said the fund was prepared to oppose the recycling program publicly if the company had gone ahead with its original plan. The group has been criticized within the environmental movement for its ties to a company many see as the symbol of a wasteful society.
The decision by McDonald's, Mr. Krupp said, will be a signal to industry in general to move toward more environmentally sensitive packaging. "The end of the polystyrene clamshell represents the turning of the tide on the throwaway society."
But the swiftness of the company's reversal after years of vigorously defending the use of foam came as a surprise to some of those involved in solid-waste disputes. "This is a case study for the business schools," said Allen Hershkowitz, a senior scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. "The decision was made in the last 72 hours. You get the impression they do something and then try to figure out what it means."
 
Other Issues
 Some disagreed with the wisdom of McDonald's decision or its potential impact. "This is an environmental attack on the throwaway, fast-food life style and the company with the highest profile," said John Giroux, president of the Amoco Foam Products Company, a subsidiary of the oil company and a supplier of foam packaging to McDonald's. "This is not about polystyrene."
He said the material is used widely in the food and packaging industries, including the making of egg cartons, and that these sectors have not come under significant attack. He said about 10 percent of Amoco Foam's sales were to McDonald's.
Other companies producing the material include the Mobil Corporation, Jen-Pak and Huntsman Chemical, none of which will be hurt greatly by McDonald's decision.
 
1 Billion Pounds a Year
 R. Jerry Johnson, executive director of the Polystyrene Packaging Council, a trade association, said the total market for foam packaging like the McDonald's box is about one billion pounds a year in the United States. "Our sense is that McDonald's is about 7 or 8 percent of that," he said.
McDonald's officials said the new packaging, which will include a cellophane-like outer wrapper, will start appearing in its restaurants in about four weeks. The company said it uses a large number of suppliers for its paper products and would not identify any specific paper companies that would benefit from the changeover.
The new paper-based material McDonald's will use will not be recyclable because of its multilayer construction. But Mr. Hershkowitz, of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the company indicated that its goal was to find a material that could be disposed of by composting.
The first package to be phased out will be the foam hamburger box, which Mr. Rensi said accounts for 75 percent of the total foam used.
Mr. Rensi conceded that the new containers would not be as good as foam in retaining heat. But he said improvements in cooking methods since the company last used paper-based packaging in the early 1970's would compensate. "The technology of the cooking process has caught up to the defects of paper," he said.
 
Some Difficult Problems
 He said complex sandwiches, like the Big Mac, would be made inside a paper collar to retain heat, and then wrapped with an outer sheet. The McDLT sandwich, where foam was used to keep the hot hamburger separated from the cooler lettuce and tomato slices, "is a very difficult problem" without the use of foam, he added.
The environmental community is not uniformly behind the switch from plastic to paper, illustrating the complexity of the problem. "Using a lot more paper means a lot more pollution," said Jan Beyea, a scientist at the National Audubon Society. "It is a mistake to make plastic the great satan and paper the great saint. Both processes generate pollution."
He said the shift by McDonald's, which had switched to foam from paper packaging in 1975, "shows that consumer pressure works."
McDonald's officials said all the details of the shift to paper-based packaging had not been worked out, but that over time the company expected paper to be less expensive than foam. But the officials said the impact would be small. "It will not affect our prices or our profits," Mr. Rensi said.
 
Example of Cooperation
 Both Mr. Rensi and Mr. Krupp said the plastic-to-paper decision was an indication of how often-warring corporations and environmentalists can cooperate. "This is an indication of how business, consumers and environmentalists can meet, discuss issues and create a partnership without a fight. We recognize that not all our decisions are right."
Mr. Krupp said: "McDonald's recognizes that the future is green. If they do, others will as well. McDonald's is to be applauded for changing course."
But groups representing polystyrene packaging companies reacted with dismauy. "This came as a shock to us," said Mr. Johnson of the polystyrene council. "We have been working for 10 years with these guys on recycling."
"This is a big deal to us because of the fact that McDonald's bowed to public pressure," said Joseph W. Bow, president of the Foodservice and Packaging Institute. "We want to see a free economy where materials are used based on their advantages, not on the wishes of powerful groups."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward H. Rensi, right, of McDonald's U.S.A., and Frederic D. Krupp, of the Environmental Defense Fund, with samples of McDonald's foam hamburger boxes and the new packaging that will replace them. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) (Pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (96%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (96%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (83%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (83%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PRODUCT PACKAGING (91%); FAST FOOD (90%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (90%); RENEWABLE PLASTICS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CHILDREN (51%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



61 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies McDonald's abrupt decision to drop its plastic foam box came largely as a result of an unusual alliance forged in August with the Environmental Defense Fund, people involved in the discussions said. [Page A1.] The simple hinged square box was in its way a small symbol of an era. [D5.]
Morgan Stanley will eliminate 50 investment banking jobs, it said, or 6 percent of the 800-member division. [D1.]
Pathe completed its $1.3 billion acquisition of MGM/UA, after months of scrambling to find financing. [D1.]
Macy's, seeking to repay its debt, plans to sell up to $150 million of its equity to its outside investors. [D4.]
 New York Telephone disclosed that 15 people had resigned, retired or been dismissed in the last year as a result of an internal investigation into purchasing practices. [D4.]
Amoco has begun selling a cleaner gasoline in all three grades in Washington, Baltimore, Richmond and Roanoke, Va. [D5.]
Two former Merrill Lynch executives were accused of accepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes from companies that helped develop the World Financial Center. [D6.]
 United Airlines was blamed by regulators for an accident in Iowa last year that killed 112 on a DC-10 jetliner. [A15.]
A huge rally outside The Daily News to show support for striking unions was joined by at least 10,000 municipal workers. [B3.] The strike may reshape the New York City newspaper market. [A1.]
RJR Nabisco said it had retired $2.4 billion in high-interest bonds by swapping them for cash and stock. [D4.]
 
 Markets
Treasury securities prices rose and interest rates fell, helped by a large rise in weekly unemployment claims. [D1.]
Stock prices moved higher, helped by a strong bond market. The Dow climbed 12.62, to 2,454.95. [D6.] Crude oil prices fell 6 cents, to $35.17. [D15.]
The dollar fell against all leading currencies but the yen amid further signs of a weakening U.S. economy. [D13.] Silver futures prices rose sharply. [D13.]
The Economy The tax package invaded sacrosanct territory: deductions for interest on home mortgages, charitable contributions and state and local taxes. [D1.]
Purchasing managers reported that the nation's manufacturing economy in October hit its lowest level in eight years. [D5.]
Construction spending fell 2.8 percent in September, its steepest drop since the last recession, the Government said. [D5.]
 
International
Europe's continued failure to agree on a common negotiating position on agriculture has deepened pessimism about whether four years of talks aimed at liberalizing world trade can conclude successfully early next month. [D2.]
Germany lifted one of its two primary lending rates, bucking the international trend toward lower rates. [D12.]
President Salinas rejected any weakening of Mexican Government control over the nation's lucrative oil industry. [A6.]
 
Today's Columns
If the market for big stocks is depressed, the market for small stocks seems almost lifeless. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
Is it possible that the third-quarter G.N.P. data are telling a correct story and that the economy is stronger than most people believe? Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Aetna has begun a campaign that delivers what most insurance advertising tries to avoid -- straight talk about some thorny problems. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D16.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (54%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (75%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (75%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); KRAFT NABISCO (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (84%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); STRIKES (76%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (75%); FUTURES (74%); TRENDS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); SILVER MARKETS (71%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CHARITABLE GIVING (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); RECESSION (68%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); BRIBERY (67%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (64%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%); TAX LAW (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



62 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
The United Nations Security Council must involve itself directly in the search for a way to protect Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied territories, Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar said. Page A1
The flow of Soviet Jews into Israel reached 20,000 for the first time in October, despite the threat of war and a shortage of housing for the immigrants. A11
Ethiopia says all Jews are free to leave for Israel A11
American troops could destroy Iraq, the commander of the American forces in the Persian Gulf said, but he warned that Iraq's destruction may not be the best thing for the region. He said he does not expect war soon. A1
Blazing trenches may be Iraqi means of defense A8
President Bush softened his threats over Iraq's treatment of American diplomats and hostages. Mr. Bush held a news conference to dampen any sense that he was moving closer to military action. A9
Saudis say Syria plans to send more troops to gulf soon A9
I.M.F. moves to help aid countries pinched by crisis A9
Efforts to send Japanese forces to the Persian Gulf have effectively failed. Despite pressure from the United States, most Japanese oppose sending troops to foreign lands, given the nation's military past. A9
 Sir Geoffrey Howe has resigned as Deputy Prime Minister of Britain. His departure reflects the split within Prime Minister Thatcher's Conservative Party over the economic and politcal union of Europe. A1
Mexico's President defends efforts to open economy A6
The Ukraine issued its own currency, becoming the first Soviet republic to do so. Under the crude program, residents receive coupons in their pay envelopes that must be used with rubles to purchase consumer goods. A3
Beijing Journal: China's official schoolboy hero A4
 
NATIONAL A14-19
The Senate race in North Carolina between Jesse Helms, the Republican incumbent, and Harvey Gantt, a black Democrat, has degenerated into a sordid brawl being fought on an explicitly racial agenda. A1 Incumbents are facing the music back on the campaign trail, and the voters are singing songs of outrage over Congress's handling of the budget and the uncertainty brought on by fears of a war. A1
Snapshots of some of the hottest contests for the House A18
Voters get revenge for negative TV ad nauseam A18
How accurate is election polling? Once again, the explosion of polls in American politics has become an issue in itself with different polls offering different measurements of voters intentions and moods. A19
Democrats accuse G.O.P. of intimidating voters in two states A19 The former Housing Secretary Samuel Pierce said he was forced to hire a neighbor of Senator Alfonse D'Amato as the senior housing official in New York even though she was unqualified, a report said. A14
The legal fight to let a woman die returned to a courthouse in Missourifour months after the Supreme Court ruled that citizens could have life-sustaining treatment stopped if there is clear evidence of their wishes. A14
A Federal judge in California was was given a reduced sentence for his conviction in a corruption case. He was ordered to serve to six months in prison and 1,000 hours of community work and was fined $2,000. A14
Attorney General of Arkansas convicted of abusing privileges A16
Blame for the crash of a DC-10 jet in Iowa City last year fell primarily on United Airlines. The National Transportation Safety Board said the airline had failed to detect a flaw in an engine. A15
Court upholds mandatory retirement at 60 for pilots A15
McDonald's move to stop using foam in its trademark hamburger box indicates how public pressure can affect the decision-making process of a corporation -- particularly when it comes to image. A1
Scientists insert gene into photosynthetic structures in plant A16
Has science stretch life expectancy as far as it can go? A17
Los Angeles Journal: Where the homeless and Hollywood meet A14
 
REGIONAL B1-4
Young men on a Halloween rampage assaulted several homeless people on Wards Island, killing one and injuring nine others. The police said the youths seemed to have no motive except seeking thrills. A1
A new era for New York newspapers has come in the wake of the strike at The Daily News. Whatever the outcome, industry experts say the strike will bring changes that could reshape all the city's newspapers. A1
"Fence-sitters" in the Guild watch, wait and anguish B3
Thousands rally in support of strikers at The News B3
Can New York absorb more taxes? Even as Governor Cuomo has said the state's capacity to raise taxes is limited and Mayor Dinkins has cut the city's budget, some economists say more taxes may be needed. B1 Pierre Rinfret's unconventional race for governor has wound down in an angry mood of attacks -- often against reporters and his fellow Republicans -- that often sound like a post-mortem analysis of defeat. B1
The state environmental bond act before voters on Tuesday is seen by many local officials as the only possible source for the money they need to replace landfills, protect water supplies and preserve open spaces. B1
Representative John G. Rowland, the Republican candidate for governor in Connecticut, has portrayed himself in commercials as a stern, tough candidate, but perhaps his best skill is face-to-face campaigning. B1
Ninth game of chess match ends in another draw B2
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
 Weekend
Hunting for fossils and rocks C1
Time for tea C1
Curtain up again at Sardi's C5
Papp rejects $323,000 in grants C5
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
"Oh, Kay!" C1
Film: At the Movies C12
"Jacob's Ladder" C12
"Corman's Frankenstein Unbound" C14
Diane Kurys's "C'est la Vie" C16
"Leningrad Cowboys Go America" C25
Art: Myron Stout C32
Restaurants C26
Word and Image: "Sexual Intercourse," by Rose Boyt C36
TV Weekend: Kevin Kline's "Hamlet" B14
 
Law Page B5
At the Bar
Riding circuit with swamps and yellow fever
 
Obituaries A20
Ian Woodner, builder, artist and collector of rare drawings
Jack Sterling, radio host
 
Sports
Basketball: Injury and controversy as Knicks open season B7
Colleges: No. 1 still eludes Nebraska coach B10
Column: Vecsey on N.B.A. expansion B7
Football: Giants are wondering bout Dickerson B7
N.F.L. Matchups B8
Bo Knows how to be average B8
Hockey: Rangers see October as an omen B10
Running: Samuelson out of marathon B7
 
 Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials A34
The big lie about Kuwait
Striking out at public order
Congress and the world
Topics: Barry and DeaverLetters A34
Anthony Lewis: Patience is strength A35
A. M. Rosenthal: The poison gas trade A35
Adam Hochschild: A fire sale in South Africa A35
Marilyn Suzanne Miller: What's wrong with this story? A35

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GULF STATES (88%); CHINA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (88%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



63 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk; LAW: AT THE BAR

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Among Lawyers, Do Litigators Have Some Kind Of Hormonal Edge? Science May Deliver The Answer.

BYLINE: By David Margolick

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
In the past few weeks, 50 lawyers here have taken sticks of Extra sugarless gum, placed them in their mouths, worked up some saliva, and expectorated into a small plastic vial.
For maximum freshness, each bottle has been whisked into the freezer across the hall from the office of Dr. James M. Dabbs Jr., a psychologist at Georgia State University, where it awaits analysis. 
 "These are the lawyers," Dr. Dabbs's research assistant, Elizabeth Carriere, recently told a visitor as she opened the freezer. "They've already been centrifuged."
Trial lawyers often say they have more gumption, more guts, or more other parts of their anatomy than their paper-pushing partners. What Dr. Dabbs and Ms. Carriere are out to learn is whether these boasts are physiological facts or just self-aggrandizing figures of speech.
In the mini-spittoons of Dr. Dabbs's freezer is the saliva of trial lawyers, of government lawyers, of corporate lawyers, of real estate lawyers, of criminal lawyers, of judges, and as of a few days ago, one lawyer-turned newspaper-reporter. In the next week or so, all of them -- samples from women as well as men -- will be tested for their level of testosterone, the principal male sex hormone.
High levels of testosterone has been linked with overly aggressive or anti-social behavior. Juvenile delinquents, substance abusers, rapists, bullies and dropouts tend to have too much of the stuff. It is Dr. Dabbs's hypothesis that trial lawyers, too, are overly endowed in this department, but have learned to harness this primordial force for fun and profit.
"Trial lawyers may have stumbled into this wonderful ecological niche in which they can go out and be aggressive and confrontational and still get a lot of rewards for it," he said. "It may be one of the more primitive ways of making a prestigious living."
Dr. Dabbs tried to include lawyers in a similar study three years ago, which examined doctors, football players, sales people, actors, ministers, professors, firefighters and the unemployed. But no lawyers would cooperate -- perhaps, his original research assistant, Denise de La Rue, hypothesized, "out of some underlying fear of failure."
Enter Ms. Carriere, an undergraduate at Georgia State and the daughter and granddaughter of lawyers. She persuaded some of her father's friends to take part in the study, and from there, secured toe-holds in some of the city's major law firms. She also solicited volunteers at the DeKalb County Courthouse.
Sure enough, courtroom and boardroom lawyers reacted quite differently when a 22-year-old woman asked to test their testosterone. Ms. Carriere said some of the trial lawyers seemed to think they had been selected because of their self-evident machismo. One promptly volunteered to recruit some of his fellow "hormonal lawyers," as he put it. When it came time to produce specimens, they spit with gusto.
For these would-be he-men, a low testosterone count could prove far more crushing than any 500 on their Law School Admissions Test. But one of those tested, Robert Katz of Gorby, Reeves, Moraitakis & Whiteman, suggested that for him, at least, the experiment was a no-lose proposition. What if he got a low score? "I don't think a low-level reading means that that attorney is incapable of functioning in court," he said solemnly. And a high one? "Obviously I'll put that in our firm resume," he said.
Many of the non-litigators, on the other hand, blanched when Ms. Carriere approached them. "They just about crawled under the desk," she said. One real estate lawyer refused, acting, she said, "like I was asking him to donate money," she said. Others insisted on spitting in private.
Dr. Dabbs's research has its skeptics, like former Attorney General Griffin Bell of King & Spalding in Atlanta, two of whose lawyers participated in the study. "It's useless information as I see it," he said.
That may be a bit harsh. The scores could aid career counselors, who might steer poor performers away from courtroom work. It could finally determine whether Wall Street "litigators," who rarely get into courtrooms, are really trial lawyers. It could help elite groups like the American College of Trial Lawyers pick members more scientifically.
Dr. Dabbs has other experiments in mind. To gauge the relative roles of nature and nurture in the making of a trial lawyer, he is considering testing law students. A leading Atlanta criminal-defense lawyer, Bruce Harvey, has agreed to spit periodically while on trial. Dr. Dabbs also dreams of testing the superstar saliva of a Joe Jamail, a Richard (Racehorse) Haynes and or an Alan Dershowitz.
He could also team up with Dr. Donald Clifford of the Medical College of Ohio in Toledo, who is currently working on another, closely related population. He is testing the testosterone level of pit bulls.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; LAWYERS; SALIVA; TESTOSTERONE LAWYERS (92%); LITIGATION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); SALES FORCE (62%); 

PERSON: DABB, JAMES M JR (DR); MARGOLICK, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



64 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
The Ones to Watch: Snapshots of Some of the Hottest Contests for the House

 BODY:

California
 
 17TH DISTRICT. Calvin Dooley, the Democratic candidate, appears to be benefiting greatly from the headlines in the Fresno area about the six-term incumbent, Charles (Chip) Pashayan Jr., a Republican, and his ties to the savings and loan industry and Charles H. Keating Jr. Mr. Pashayan is not the target of any inquiries, but he received $26,000 in contributions from Mr. Keating in 1986 and shortly after wrote letters and introduced legislation to help the S.& L. industry.
36TH DISTRICT. For two decades, George E. Brown Jr., a Democrat, has represented the San Bernardino area. But now he faces a strong challenge from Bob Hammock, a Republican, who while on the City Council and County Board, built strong ties to Hispanic voters, who make up a quarter of the district.
37TH DISTRICT. In the Palm Springs area, the incumbent, Alfred A. McCandless, a Republican, represents a district that has seen such a population boom that lots of new voters do not know him, leaving him vulnerable to challenge from the actor Ralph Waite, a Democrat best known as the father on the Waltons television show.
 
 Connecticut
 
 FIFTH DISTRICT. Toby Moffett, a Democrat, faces Gary A. Franks, a Republican, for a seat John Rowland vacated to run for governor. Mr. Franks, a three-term Waterbury alderman, is a conservative black Republican, and Mr. Moffett is a former Congressman who lost races for the Senate and governor in the 1980's. Mr. Moffett is trying to avoid the carpetbagger label, based on his recent move into the district. Mr. Franks, a real estate owner, has been criticized for failing to release income tax data.
 
 Florida
 
 FOURTH DISTRICT. Craig T. James, a freshman Representative and a Republican, faces a strong challenge in northeastern Florida from Reid Hughes, a wealthy former oil distributor who is trying to tap anti-incumbent sentiment by portraying Mr. James as a tool of special interests.
11TH DISTRICT. Bill Nelson, a Democrat, vacated the seat representing east-central Florida to run for the nomination for governor, which he lost. Republicans hold the registration advanatage, but Jim Bacchus, a Democratic Orlando lawyer, has run a strong race. The Republican candiate is Bill Tolley, who ran against Mr. Nelson in 1988.
 
 Georgia
 
 FOURTH DISTRICT. Ben Jones, a Democrat, won this district in 1988 from Pat Swindall, who was under indictment on ethics charges. The Republican, John Linder, is trying to win it back by painting Mr. Jones as too liberal, although he seems to have trouble getting his race to take hold in the district, just outside Atlanta.
 
 Idaho
 
 FIRST DISTRICT. Democrats hope Larry LaRocco, a Boise stockbroker, can win this seat back for them against C. A. (Skip) Smyser, a Republican lawyer and longtime state senator. The incumbent Republican, Larry Craig, is running for governor. Both candidates are using anti-incumbent tactics, but both are restrained: Mr. Smyser because of his political career, Mr. LaRocco because the neighboring district in Eastern Washington is represented by Thomas S. Foley, a fellow Democrat and the Speaker of the House.
 
 Illinois
 
 11TH DISTRICT. Frank Annunzio, the 75-year-old Democrat who has held this seat in northwest Chicago for 13 terms, faces a strong challenge from Walter Dudycz, a Republican who is making much of Mr. Annunzio's contributions from Charles J. Keating Jr.
16TH DISTRICT. John Cox, a Democrat and former prosecutor for Joe Daviess County in the state's northwest corner, is battling to overcome implications by his Republican opponent, John Hallock, a state representative, that Mr. Cox wants to meddle with the Social Security trust fund. The charge is based on a proposal Mr. Cox made that has been oversimplified. Lynn Martin vacated this seat to run for the Senate.
 
 Indiana
 
THIRD DISTRICT. John Hiler has been in a competitive election every two years since he won this seat, representing north-central Indiana, including South Bend, from John Brademas in 1980. His Democratic opponent is Tim Roemer, a legislative staff worker in Washington.
FOURTH DISTRICT. Jill Long, a freshman Democrat in Vice President Dan Quayle's old seat from northeast Indiana, is running against spending and taxes. That is how she won a special election in 1989, and it is how she hopes to keep her seat against Rick Hawks, a Republican former television minister. It's a real baby boomer race: She is 38; he is 37.
 
 Iowa
 
 SECOND DISTRICT. Thanks to a sound farm economy, this district that includes Dubuque and Cedar Rapids, is enjoying relatively stable economic times, so the contest between Eric Tabor, the Democratic farmer, and Jim Nussle, a Republican prosecutor, has consisted largely of personal attacks, based on charges like misrepresentations of their work histories. Tom Tauke gave up the seat to run for the Senate.
 
 Maine
 
 FIRST DISTRICT. David F. Emery, a Republican who held this seat in south Maine from 1975 to 1983, is trying to get it back, with Joe Brennan's leaving to run for Governor. Mr. Emery, with solid conservative credentials, is trying to paint his more populist Democratic opponent, State Senator Thomas H. Andrews, as a liberal, but not with limited success. Mr. Andrews has succeeded in portraying himself as an economic development advocate.
 
 Maryland
 
 FIRST DISTRICT. Roy Dyson, despite being under attack for close ties to military contractors, was renominated in the state's southern district. But new disclosures of ties to contractors have hurt the incumbent Democrat since. Wayne Gilchrest, a Republican high school teacher who nearly beat Mr. Dyson in 1988, is playing up his service in Vietnam. Mr. Dyson was a conscientious objector.
 
 Massachusetts
 
 FIFTH DISTRICT. Chester Atkins is state Democratic chairman, and that is not a good thing to be this year in Massachusetts, where voters are consumed by anti-government fury. State Representative John MacGovern, a Republican, is trying to paint Mr. Atkins as a clone of the unpopular Gov. Michael S. Dukakis. The district is northwest of Boston.
 
 Minnesota
 
 SEVENTH DISTRICT. Arlan Strangeland, the Republican who has represented the district that includes St. Cloud since 1977, may be in peril. The cause is a character issue revolving around his use of Congressional telephones for personal calls. Collin Peterson, a Democrat making his fifth try at unseating Mr. Strangeland, has unified party backing this time.
 
 New Jersey
 
 FIRST DISTRICT. The anti-tax furor in New Jersey has given Republicans hope in a district where they normally would not have much. This is Gov. Jim Florio's old seat, in southwestern New Jersey, and it is Mr. Florio's tax increases that have provoked voter outrage. Still, the Republican, Dan Mangini, with a relatively modest campaign, is in an uphill fight against Rob Andrews, the Democrat who has a huge, well-financed organization.
 
 North Carolina
 
 11TH DISTRICT. This district has changed hands more than any other in the 1980's. Jamie Clark is now in his second term, the longest anyone has served in more than a decade. Former State Senator Charles Taylor, a tree farmer, is the Republican. He nearly beat Mr. Clark in 1988. Mr. Clark has more money but Mr. Taylor has Jesse Helms at the top of the ticket in this rural district that includes Asheville.
 
 Oregon
 
 FIFTH DISTRICT. Denny Smith, the Republican, is among the most vulnerable incumbents in the country, largely because of his well-publicized savings and loan links, which resulted in a House ethics complaint. Mike Kopetski came within a few hundred votes of beating Mr. Smith two years ago in this district in state's northwest corner. Now he has the S.& L. issue and has avoided being painted as a sympathizer with radical environmentalists.
 
 Rhode Island
 
 SECOND DISTRICT. Claudine Schneider gave up this seat, representing western Rhode Island, to run for the Senate. State Representative Jack Reed is the Democratic candidate against Trudy Coxe. Ms. Coxe is a well-known environmentalist, and Republicans hope that will protect her against the effects of the souring economy, which seem to be working to Mr. Reed's benefit.
 
 Texas
 
 11TH DISTRICT. With the retirement of Marvin Leath, Democrats are scrambling to hang on here, near the center of the state. Chet Edwards, a Democratic state senator, and Hugh Shine, a Republican state representative, both aim to portray themselves as in tune with the true Texas of the 1990's. In a state that has been tipping gradually to Republicans, this conservative central Texas district with a long Democratic history is being seen as indicative of 90's trends.
13TH DISTRICT. Bill Sarpalius, a Democrat, is in danger of losing the seat he has held for one term. This Panhandle district, with an economy based on agricultural and minerals, is the most Republican part of the state, and Mr. Sarpalius's Republican challenger, State Representative Dick Waterfield, is running a better-financed campaign.
 
 Vermont
 
 FIRST DISTRICT. Peter Smith, the Republican Representative completing his first term from this one-district state, is facing a challenge from an independent socialist, Bernie Sanders, a former Mayor of Burlington. The Democratic candidate in this race is barely a factor.
 
 Washington
 
 THIRD DISTRICT. Jolene Unsoeld, a Democrat, was elected from this southwest Washington district, in the closest election in country in 1988. Bob Williams, the Republican challenger, a strong supporter of the gun-owner rights, is attacking her for reversals on gun control, yet the National Rifle Assiciation has endorsed Ms. Unsoeld because she voted for the gun group's position on domestic production of semiautmoatic weapons.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday listing two dozen Congressional races around the country misidentified a Republican incumbent in Minnesota. He is Arlan Stangeland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (74%); 

CITY: FRESNO, CA, USA (92%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (74%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (74%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); CITIES (69%); INDICTMENTS (60%); ETHICS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL NELSON (78%); LARRY CRAIG (78%); JOHN LINDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



65 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: The Curtain Goes Up Again at Sardi's

BYLINE: By MOLLY O'NEILL

 BODY:
Among the glitzy marquees and crumbling sidewalks of the theater district recently, a hand-lettered sign was propped in the window of a darkened restaurant for more than a month. "Very soon I will reopen Sardi's The Longest Running Show on Broadway," it read, and it was signed "Vincent Sardi."
Similar posters have become indigenous to New York City's landscape. More often than not, the reopening notices are replaced by others that say "Closed" or "Foreclosure"; New Yorkers have learned to avert their eyes. 
 But pedestrians on West 44th Street yesterday noticed that the sign was gone, the windows were shining and the 79-year-old restaurant's facade had a new coat of Chianti-red paint. Tonight Sardi's is opening its doors to the public again.
The restaurant has been closed since July, but it hasn't been itself for many years. In its heyday, Sardi's was Glamour. It was John Barrymore, Helen Hayes, Lilian Gish, Rex Harrison, Marilyn Monroe. It was a world of red-leather banquettes, silk stockings, cigarettes glimmering in onyx holders and sauces warming in copper pans at tableside. It was the brightest light of the Great White Way.
And Mr. Sardi, who ran the restaurant that his father began as a speakeasy in 1921, was the unofficial mayor of 44th Street. In addition to pouring cocktails mean enough to please Damon Runyon, and serving top-shelf roast beef, filet mignon and canneloni, he knew and charmed le tout New York. But after three decades, Mr. Sardi stopped spending 14 hours a day in his restaurant. The glamour quotient dipped, the carpets got thinner, the patina on the banquettes turned to dinge, and food from industrial cans became the kitchen's mainstay. By 1987, The Zagat New York City Restaurant Survey called the place a "culinary laughing stock." One customer who was surveyed called Sardi's "The longest-running gag on Broadway."
 
A Namesake as Receiver
 This didn't stop the tour buses. Nevertheless, four years ago Mr. Sardi sold the restaurant to a group of investors and retired to Vermont. Soon after the sale, the group failed to make its monthly payments. In July, the group closed the restaurant. Pending sale of the site, the courts appointed Mr. Sardi as "temporary receiver." "His hope is that he will get legal possession," said David Garelick, the attorney who represents Mr. Sardi.
In the past five months, the restaurant rumor mills have churned with Sardi-reincarnation plans. At least half-a-dozen well-known operators, including Brian McNally, the impresario of 150 Wooster, considered purchasing the remaining nine-year lease on the property, but the necessary multi-million-dollar overhaul of the vintage dining rooms and kitchen was daunting to most propective buyers. A second investment group convened with visions of restoring the Sardi glory and placing a renowned Italian chef in the kitchen.
It wasn't only the lingering Sardi mystique, its icon status, the ghosts of Broadway-past that set potential buyers and investors spinning with grandiose plans. The restaurant, once among only a handful of large Broadway eating spots, is in the heart of what has become the hottest and most competitive dining area in town. Five new hotels and thousands of square feet of new office and residential space have been opened in the last year. Defying the dining-out economy in other parts of town, restaurateurs have flocked to the Times Square area with modern and shrewdly competitive business plans, multi-million-dollar investors and late-model names of their own.
Last summer, David Liederman, who owns Chez Louis, opened the Broadway Grill, a $2.2 million dining room on 48th Street. The restaurant designer Adam Tihany opened Remi, a high-styled trattoria on West 53d Street that cost about $3 million. Peter Aschkenasy, who owns Gage & Tollner in Brooklyn, is spending more than $2 million to build Chesapeake House, which is to open in late winter at 47th Street and Broadway, only three blocks from Sardi's. Dean & De Luca and Brian McNally are negotiating for food-service space in the Paramount project at 235 West 46th Street.
"Everybody wants to be here," said Mr. Aschkenasy. It's no wonder that investors huffed around Sardi's like so many bellows over a waning flame.
 
Aware but Unworried
 But in the end, Sardi reincarnated is simply Sardi redux. Mr. Sardi, who is now 75 years old, spent $500,000 to make minimal repairs to his restaurant and to lay new carpeting and reupholster the banquettes. "My pension plan is my partner," he said yesterday, strolling through the three floors of dining rooms that he has spent most of his life tending. He is not unaware of the brave new restaurant world that is sprouting around him. He is not unconcerned that 48 hours before the opening, his liquor license was still pending and the paint was still wet. He is a believer.
"We got through Prohibition and the Great Depression," he said. His gaze skipped past the hastily reupholstered banquettes, stray wires and unfinished electrical outlets and rested on the gallery of caricatures on the walls. The faces that used to giggle, confide and gossip at his tables, the scores of actors, writers and politicians whom, for half a century, he protected from autograph hounds, now line his walls in frames. "You can't just let a tradition like this go down the drain," he said.
"We already have 52 reservations for Friday night," said the guardian of the 700-seat establishment on Wednesday. "So many lovely people call me on the telephone to wish me well, and I promise them all a free glass of wine."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sardi's will reopen tonight. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: SARDI'S (RESTAURANT)

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (89%); THEATER (78%); FORECLOSURE (70%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, MOLLY HELEN HAYES (55%); REGINALD CAREY 'REX' HARRISON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



66 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 25; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Review/Film;
On a Musical Journey of Discovery

BYLINE: By VINCENT CANBY

 BODY:
The camera pans slowly across the flat, frozen desolation of the Finnish north to discover a small unheated barn where the world's worst polka band is playing an audition best described as relentless. They are 10, if you include the manager, Vladimir, and one musician who is laid out in a home-made coffin, frozen stiff and, it is assumed, dead.
It is further assumed that they are brothers since each looks to have been hatched at the same time from the same egg. Alive or dead, each is equally expressionless and, perhaps, equally committed to music. 
 Their most stunning physical characteristic is their hair, which is jet black and grows horizontally forward from the brow into a sort of tilde shape. They could have come from the drawing board of Dick Tracy's Chester Gould.
They are, instead, the seriously detached, deadpan comic heroes of "Leningrad Cowboys Go America," written and directed last year by the gifted Aki Kaurismaki.
 In case you came in late, Mr. Kaurismaki is the not-quite-minimalist Finnish film maker whose two later comedies, "The Match Factory Girl" and "I Hired a Contract Killer," were the highlights at this year's New York Film Festival.
When the audition on the tundra ends, after an especially brisk solo riff on an electric guitar, a Helsinki impresario tells Vladimir that the band's best chances are in New York. "They'll buy anything there," he says, giving Vladimir the name and address of a cousin who will take charge of the band's fortunes in the States.
Thus begins "Leningrad Cowboys Go America," a road comedy so laid back and so cool that to laugh out loud at it would seem to be hopelessly square. It opens today at the Angelika Film Center.
 After taking off from the world's sleepiest international airport, the members of the band, including the stiff one, arrive on the Lower East Side. The New York promoter suggests that they make their American debut in a concert either at Madison Square Garden or Yankee Stadium.
Then he listens to them. Without missing a beat, he sends them off to play a wedding in Mexico.
There is no room for surprise in the Kaurismaki universe.
Vladimir and his group walk to the nearest used-car lot where the friendly, fast-talking salesman (played by Jim Jarmusch, the American director) tries to sell them a Checker cab that appears to have been dropped from a great height onto its radiator. They appreciate everything the salesman says but choose, instead, the roominess and luxury of a $700 Cadillac.
"Leningrad Cowboys" follows the band as it makes its unhurried way from New York to Memphis; New Orleans; Natchez, Miss.; Langtry, Tex.; Galveston, and, finally, Mexico.
The film observes the world through eyes that have never left home so that, though it was photographed on recognizable New World locations, every place looks like Finland. The occasional petrochemical plant, the ubiquitous suburbs and even the Louisiana bayous cannot disguise the truth. This is the world they left.
The only difference is the temperature: this particular Finland is warmer.
In isolated gigs along the way (all disastrous), the musicians learn for the first time about rock-and-roll and how to lip-sync the recordings of, among others, Herb Alpert and the Tijuana Brass. At some point, they even pick up a title song, about a Leningrad cowboy raising cattle on the steppes ("Won't you pour him another vodka/To help him to forget?").
 "Leningrad Cowboys" is a road movie, but not like any other. It rigorously avoids sociology, easy laughs or even irony.
Though Mr. Kaurismaki's films have been seen at the New York Film Festival, and have been the subject of a retrospective at Anthology Film Archives in Manhattan, this is his first film to receive a regular commercial theater run here. "Leningrad Cowboys" is not the ideal introduction to the Kaurismaki work, but it is a start.
Mr. Kaurismaki could well turn out to be the seminal European film maker of the 1990's. His films see all but appear to divulge nothing. They refuse to be surprised or to take sides.
They also seem to express the only sane response to the sudden collapse of the cold war and Eastern Europe's new enthusiasm for a kind of free economy that, elsewhere, is beginning to get the shakes. Mr. Kaurismaki's characters live in a world of dreadful timing, magnificently manifest in the music of the wild and crazy band in "Leningrad Cowboys."
 It's still too early to tell whether Mr. Kaurismaki will be as prolific as Rainer Werner Fassbinder, but eight features in seven years seems promising.
"Leningrad Cowboys" isn't much more than a shaggy-dog story, though a packed one. It's an extended cross-country sketch compared to his other films, which, though far more somber, are also funnier. "Leningrad Cowboys" is frequently less like the director's earlier work than like an homage to the films of Mr. Jarmusch.
The two men share a similar sensibility, but they approach their work from different directions. Mr. Jarmusch is, in his way, a kind of social historian. Whether he means to be or not, Mr. Kaurismaki is far more political.
It is this sense of purpose that, though never more than obliquely expressed in his other films, is missing from "Leningrad Cowboys." Yet the singular voice of the man who made it remains strong and clear.
"Leningrad Cowboys Go America," which has been rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned), has some vulgar language.
 
Leningrad Cowboys Go America
 
Directed by Aki Kaurismaki; screenplay (in English and Finnish with English subtitles) by Mr. Kaurismaki; story by Sakke Jarvenpaa, Mr. Kaurismaki, Mato Valtonen; edited by Raija Talvio; cinematography, Timo Dalminen; music by Mauri Sumen; produced by Mr. Kaurismaki, Klas Olofsson and Katinka Farago; released by Orion Classics. Running time: 80 minutes. At the Angelika Film Center, corner of Houston and Mercer Streets. This film is rated PG-13.
 
Vladimir . . . Matti Pellonpaa
Igor . . . Kari Vaananen
Car Dealer . . . Jim Jarmusch
Rock Promoter . . . Richard Boes
The Leningrad Cowboys . . . Sakke Jarvenpaa, Heikki Keskinen, Sakari Kuosmanen, Puka Oinonen, Silu Sepala, Mauri Sumen, Mato Valtonen, Pekka Virtanen

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LENINGRAD COWBOYS GO AMERICA (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FINLAND (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MEMPHIS NEW HOLLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS MUSIC (90%); FILM (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (85%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); FESTIVALS (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); AIRPORTS (69%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT CHESTER GOULD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



67 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
Patience Is Strength

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
The escalation of President Bush's rhetoric about Iraq and American hostages has led some to believe that he will soon order military action.
On the best information available, any such early turn to force is not likely. Apart from all the considerations of policy and law, military experts indicate that it will be another month at least before the United States has the necessary forces in the Persian Gulf. 
 Nor is it convincing to suggest, as some do, that Mr. Bush has talked tough just before Election Day for domestic political reasons -- to get voter attention away from his performance on the budget. That would be dangerous, and quite inconsistent with the way he has handled this crisis from the beginning.
Why, then, has the President begun to speak in emotional terms about hostages and U.S. diplomats caught in Kuwait? "The American flag is flying over the Kuwaiti embassy and our people inside are being starved by a brutal dictator," he said on Wednesday. "I have had it with that kind of treatment of Americans."
Such statements by Mr. Bush and Secretary of State Baker evidently had two purposes. One was to signal Saddam Hussein that the President was losing patience and might well turn to war. The other was to refocus the attention of the American public on the gulf and stiffen its resolve.
But if so, the statements seem miscalculated. On reflection, they show why the President should have stuck with the course he was on -- and should return to it.
From the start Mr. Bush had played down the hostage question. By doing so he made sure that it was not a serious limitation on his freedom of action. He had plainly learned from the terrible experience of President Carter, who found the issue of the hostages in Iran driving his policy.
Saddam Hussein wants his hostages to be the issue up front in people's minds. That is why he comes up with a new gimmick every day or two, releasing some hostages because of their nationality or state of health, now making the disgusting offer to let families visit those he is holding. He wants attention to be only on the hostages. Mr. Bush should not.
The heated statements are miscalculated in a deeper sense, too. They point Americans toward a belief that we must succeed in getting Iraq out of Kuwait at once, or our effort and the world's will have failed.
Again, that is a view that Saddam Hussein would almost certainly like to see take hold in the United States. He would like Americans to show impatience, a short attention span. It would suit him well if our public concluded that his aggression must be undone within a short time or he will have won -- and we then might as well give up.
What Saddam Hussein has to fear most is patient determination. United Nations sanctions are already beginning to hurt Iraq, running down its industry and its development projects. It has been able to sell almost no oil. The longer the coalition against him holds together, the worse it will get for him.
Patience is also an essential virtue for President Bush in terms of the last resort, making war. For he must know, and Saddam Hussein knows, that for serious, sustained military action an American President must have the support of his people and their representatives in Congress.
Members of Congress made the point bluntly when they met Mr. Bush this week. Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont said: "Nobody asked the President to rule out a military option, but many of us told him to make sure that we don't use the military option out of impatience." Representative Dante Fascell of Florida said any claimed further provocation by Iraq had "better be real."
Just before Congress adjourned, 82 Democrats in the House signed a statement prepared by Representative Ronald Dellums of California. It said that the consequences of a war in the gulf would be "catastrophic," that sanctions must be given every chance to work, and that if Mr. Bush thinks force is necessary he must ask Congress for a declaration of war.
That statement, signed by nearly a third of House Democrats, shows that Congressional support for war cannot be taken for granted. It will require a convincing demonstration by the President that he and the United Nations have gone as far as they can on the course that he originally set: the course of collective economic and diplomatic pressure, with force as a last resort.
Mr. Bush needs to do some more educating on the stakes in the Persian Gulf. He needs to talk about strength and patience in resisting aggression -- and why they go together.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (93%); KUWAIT (93%); GULF STATES (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (88%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available US PRESIDENTS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



68 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Bush Missed Golden Opportunity on Iraq

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Who Will Pay for the Gulf Crisis?" (editorial, Oct. 8) justly complains that the United States is taking on too great a burden in assuming most of the expense of containing Iraq. But calling for greater participation by our allies will not assure the Middle East nations that we realize the basic problem posed by Saddam Hussein's aggression is one they must solve for themselves, albeit with help from their friends. 
 President Bush had a golden opportunity to accomplish this after he had done such an outstanding job in convincing not only the Soviets but also 12 of the 21 members of the Arab League that it was in their interest to take a stand against Iraq. Successfully encouraging Egypt, Syria and Morocco to send combat troops to defend Saudi Arabia was even more extraordinary. Gaining United Nations approval of economic sanctions against Iraq climaxed his achievements in this international emergency.
Having accomplished what even the experts did not believe possible, he could have won even greater prestige throughout the Arab world -- at relatively little expense -- by acknowledging that the ground defense of Saudi Arabia should be left to troops from Arab nations and whatever third world countries might wish to join them. He could have guaranteed military hardware and supplies in whatever quantities those troops required, with United States forces limited to those on duty in the Persian Gulf and in our bases in Turkey.
This would not have interfered with our leading the effort to support the United Nations economic sanctions by a naval blockade of ships from many nations. Moreover, our Persian Gulf fleet would have assured a nearby reserve force that would be immediately available in the unlikely event that Saddam Hussein would be foolish enough to attack Saudi Arabia and run the threefold risk of earning the enmity of most of the Arab world, insuring an all-out attack by American planes and ships, and opening Iraq to a renewed assault by a still-vengeful Iran. Despite his bold talk, President Hussein has shown that he is not one to take such a risk.
Unfortunately, though President Bush has taken up the big stick that Vice President Theodore Roosevelt recommended in 1901, he has ignored Roosevelt's admonition to speak softly. Rather, he has so loudly and persistently announced his intention to wield that stick vigorously that he cannot turn back without tarnishing his image as a strong and forceful leader.
In that role, he has committed this country to an enormous military outlay that for an indefinite period will destroy all prospects for a balanced budget and reduction of the ever-growing national debt.
For this, his country will suffer in more ways than one. Some third world governments have expressed their dismay at what they see as Mr. Bush's pugnacious presumption of leadership in a dispute between Arab countries. The American people will be equally dismayed when they learn the price they must pay for his open-ended commitment of our military resources.
 
WILBUR EDEL
Mifflinburg, Pa., Oct. 8, 1990
 
The writer is professor emeritus of political science, Herbert H. Lehman College, CUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (69%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); NAVIES (73%); BUDGETS (72%); APPROVALS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1990



69 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Religion Notes

BYLINE: Ari L. Goldman

 BODY:

Methodists Ponder Move
Little noticed in the flight of jobs, businesses and just plain people from New York City in recent years has been a host of church agencies moving their headquarters out of the city. The Lutherans have left for Chicago, the Presbyterians for Louisville and the United Church of Christ for Cleveland.
Now a major agency of the United Methodist Church is considering a move. The top staff official of the agency has argued, however, that it would be unbecoming of his agency to "turn our backs and walk away."
"When others say the Big Apple is rotten to the core, the people called United Methodists will say, 'No, it is merely ripe for mission,' " the Rev. Randolph Nugent, the general secretary of the Methodist's General Board of Global Ministries, told a board meeting last month in New York. The agency, which runs religious and social programs around the world, is the largest unit of the 8.9-million-member denomination. It has a $100 million budget and 500 employees, 140 of them in New York.
"The very location of our mission headquarters ought to be a symbol of attracting the attention of our constituency, standing firmly and faithfully in the midst of the world's woes," Dr. Nugent added.
But the head of the church group that is exploring the feasibility of moving the agency's headquarters said the decision would not be made on the basis of symbolism but on an economic analysis of where the board can most efficiently operate. The group's chairman, Randy Smith, a Houston lawyer, said, "I don't look at New York City as a mission any more than any other large city."
 
 Column May Return
 For the last few weeks, the nationally syndicated column of the Rev. Richard P. McBrien has been absent from The Brooklyn Tablet, the weekly newspaper of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn.
The head of the diocese, Bishop Thomas V. Daily, has in the past expressed his displeasure with Father McBrien, a liberal theologian at Notre Dame whose column appears in religious publications around the country. When Bishop Daily was head of the diocese at Palm Beach, Fla., the conservative prelate ordered the McBrien column dropped from the local Catholic paper.
But Ed Wilkinson, editor of The Brooklyn Tablet, said the column has not met the same fate in Brooklyn, at least not yet. "It's really a matter of space consideration," Mr. Wilkinson said. The paper has been carrying fewer pages than normal in recent weeks, he said, "and we feel more of a commitment to print our local columnists than our syndicated columnists."
Asked about Bishop Daily's reaction to Father McBrien, the editor said: "He told me he doesn't like him because he shows too much disrespect for the Holy Father. But he did not give me a directive to get him out of the paper."
If he got such a directive, Mr. Wilkinson said, he would drop the column. In addition to being the Bishop of Brooklyn, Bishop Daily is the publisher of The Tablet.
Mr. Wilkinson added, however, that he likes the column. "The reason I like McBrien so much is because he gets a lot of reaction. McBrien is a lightning rod. There are times when letters about him, pro and con, can fill the entire Readers' Forum page. When you're putting out a newspaper you like to get reaction."
 
 Baptist Church Move
 Theologians, individuals and even a few universities have severed their affiliation with the Southern Baptist Convention in recent years as a result of the struggle between fundamentalists and moderates in the 15-million-member denomination.
Now comes word that a church has followed suit. The 570-member Grace Baptist Church in the Richmond neighborhood of Windsor Farms announced last week that it is indefinitely suspending its participation in the denomination by ending all contributions to its national ministries.
Church officials said the congregation had been disturbed by the dominance of fundamentalists who wanted to impose their interpretations of the Bible on the policies, agencies and institutions of the denomination. The pastor of Grace Baptist, the Rev. James B. Johnson 2d, said that delegates to the annual Southern Baptist Convention reported back this year, "We were not welcome there."
At the most recent convention, held last June in New Orleans, an effort by moderates, including people like the delegates from Grace Baptist, failed to unseat the fundamentalist leadership for the 12th year in a row.
A resolution adopted by the Grace Baptist's Church Council said that congregation "recognizes and honors its proud heritage" as a Southern Baptist church but added that it will not reaffiliate until the denomination's leadership has "returned to those tenets and philosophies that are compatible with this congregation."
Stan Hastey, executive director of the Southern Baptist Alliance, which is composed of moderates, said he has heard of several congregations withholding funds from the denomination because of displeasure with the fundamentalists at the helm. But he said that Grace Baptist was the first "that has declared itself per se inactive with respect to the Southern Baptist Convention."
 
 Realignment at the Top
 Some major appointments in the religion world are expected to be made in the next few days. The National Council of Churches, which represents more than 30 Protestant, Anglican and Eastern Orthodox denominations, is expected to name a new general secretary when it meets on Nov. 14-16 in Portland, Ore. The new executive will succeed James A. Hamilton, who chose not to seek re-election. In addition, the National Conference of Christians and Jews, which has 70 regional offices around the country, is expected to name a president to succeed Jacqueline G. Wexler, who is retiring after eight years in the job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: METHODIST CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (92%); RELIGION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (88%); WRITERS (85%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (73%); BUDGETS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); NEWS SYNDICATION (68%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, ARI L

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



70 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Precious Metals Off Sharply In Heavy Japanese Selling

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Precious metal futures prices fell sharply yesterday, led by a drop of more than $15 an ounce in the price of platinum amid heavy Japanese selling.
Platinum futures settled $15.10 to $15.90 lower on the New York Mercantile Exchange with the spot price at $416.60 and the actively traded contract for January delivery at $420.60 an ounce. 
 Gold finished $5.10 to $5.50 lower on the Commodity Exchange in New York, with the December contract at $377.80 an ounce. The November contract closed at $376.40, off $5.10. Silver was 7.1 cents to 7.8 cents lower, with December at $4.185 an ounce.
The selloff wiped out most of the price gains registered in precious metals earlier in the week.
Analysts said lower Japanese stock prices and weak United States economic data prompted heavy selling of platinum on perceptions that industrial demand for the metal will decline as economic conditions worsen.
"A good part of the selling was coming from the Japanese," said Don Tierney, metals analyst with Fortune Commodities Inc. "Whenever their stock market falls off, they've got to sell some of their platinum to lighten up on their holdings."
Yesterday's sharp drop in oil prices was also cited as a sign of easing inflationary pressures. And several analysts said gold futures weakened because of Middle Eastern sales of gold bullion and perceptions that more Middle Eastern selling could occur over the weekend.
"This seems to be a pattern we've developed on Fridays: traders get quite nervous and sell out because of fears of weekend sales from the Middle East," said Peter Cardillo, of the futures brokerage Jesup, Josephthal & Company.
Mr. Tierney said buying by Swiss and United States investors lifted gold off its lows. The November gold contract traded as low as $376.10 an ounce during the session.
Pork belly futures soared their permitted daily limit of 2 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, aided by higher prices for fresh bellies. Analysts said belly demand by bacon makers remained strong.
Cattle futures ended mixed in dull trading.
Grain and soybean futures ended mixed on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybeans sold off late in the session amid disappointment that President Bush did not announce export credits to the Soviet Union yesterday as some analysts had expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); JOSEPHTHAL & CO INC (65%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PLATINUM FUTURES (95%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); PORK (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INFLATION (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



71 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops After Reports Show Economic Weakness

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell yesterday after two Government reports provided further evidence that the economy is weakening and promoted speculation, analysts said, that the Federal Reserve would push interest rates lower.
The Labor Department said the unemployment rate was unchanged last month from the 5.7 percent of September, but nonfarm payrolls fell by 68,000, indicating that companies have less need for workers. The Government also reported that its chief economic forecasting gauge, the Index of Leading Economic Indicators, dropped eight-tenths of a percent in September, the second straight monthly drop. 
 Foreign exchange markets sold the dollar after the reports were released, believing the data would put more pressure on the Fed to nudge interest rates lower as a means of stimulating the economy. Lower interest rates are bad news for the dollar because they reduce the yield on investments denominated in dollars.
Jack Barbanel, a market analyst with First Global Asset Management Inc., said the dollar was further hurt by Germany's decision on Thursday to raise a key interest rate, the Lombard rate. The increase provided more support for the German mark.
The dollar fell to 1.4945 marks in New York yesterday, from 1.5035 late Thursday. In earlier European trading, the dollar fell to 1.5020 German marks, from 1.5070.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell to a close of 129.10 Japanese yen, from 130.70 yen on Thursday. Later, in London, it fell to 128.50 yen. In New York, the dollar closed at 127.78 yen, down from 130.56.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.9515, from $1.9525 late Thursday. But in New York, the pound rose to $1.9590, from $1.9450.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with those of late Thursday, included: 1.2605 Swiss francs, down from 1.2735; 5.0180 French francs, down from 5.0410; 1,123.75 Italian lire, down from 1,127.25, and 1.16475 Canadian dollars, up from 1.16425.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

COMPANY: GLOBAL ASSET MANAGEMENT KK (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTEREST (MONEY) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BRITISH POUND (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



72 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Price of Oil Drops $1.17 In Calm Day

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
As the Persian Gulf crisis turned three months old yesterday, oil prices fell $1.17 a barrel in a weary futures market that traders said has lost its enthusiasm for going wild on news and rumors.
"They're not looking at every headline now and saying: Buy, because Saddam said this," said Thomas P. Blakeslee, an energy analyst with Pegasus Econometric Group Inc., in Hoboken, N.J. "They're waiting for something real." 
 Crude oil for December delivery closed at $34 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Contracts for delivery in later months also settled lower.
For the week, crude for near-term delivery rose 99 cents. Oil traders said it was by far the slowest week since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2.
"You're in a very narrow range on very light volume," said Ed Kevelson, a trader with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
Analysts attributed yesterday's drop to perceptions that President Bush's latest comments about President Saddam Hussein of Iraq were softer than a day earlier.
Mr. Bush has been attacking the Iraqi leader sharply most of the week, but traders have paid little attention because the comments have come on the campaign trail, where the President is stumping for Republicans running in the elections on Tuesday.
"If he's out there campaigning and he's down in Florida, can he really start a war from there?" Mr. Blakeslee said.
Petroleum products also fell yesterday.
Unleaded gasoline dropped 3.09 cents, to 89.21 cents a gallon for December delivery, with later months also down. The near-term contract finished the week down 2.26 cents.
Home heating oil fell 2.95 cents, to 87.42 cents a gallon for December delivery. Later contract months were all lower. For the week, heating oil dropped 0.83 cent.
Natural gas for December delivery settled at $2.358 a 1,000 cubic feet, up 0.8 cent from Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph: the price for a barrel of crude oil for December delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange, Aug. 6-Nov. 2, 1990 (Source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); GULF STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (69%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); FUTURES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GASOLINE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (64%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



73 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Nebraska Governor in Fight To Save Her Political Career

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OMAHA, Nov. 1

 BODY:
With Nebraska's unemployment rate at 2.1 percent, the nation's lowest, and the state's farm economy as healthy as it has been in a decade, political logic would suggest that Gov. Kay A. Orr should have little trouble winning re-election next week.
But Mrs. Orr, the nation's first and only Republican female governor, is fighting for her political life in a tight and sometimes meanly fought campaign with Ben Nelson, the Democratic challenger and a political newcomer who has never held elective office. 
 Governor Orr, who is 51 years old, has been dogged during most of her first term by the same problem that has afflicted other Republicans, from President Bush on down: a perception among voters that the Governor went back on a campaign pledge she made four years ago not to raise taxes.
The higher taxes came after Nebraska adjusted its state tax codes in 1987. Although Governor Orr at first denied that there had been any tax increase, growing ire among voters led her earlier this year to acknowledge that she had driven up some people's taxes -- inadvertently, she said -- and then to issue a public apology in an attempt to limit political damage.
 
Polls Have Changed
 Public opinion polls last summer seemed to give her little chance of re-election. But in the most recent poll, released over the weekend, the two are running even.
James E. Johnson, a professor of political science at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, said he thought Mrs. Orr had regained some ground by admitting her mistake and then throwing her support behind a plan to roll back taxes.
"But there is a residue," Mr. Johnson said. "Voters believed she not only increased taxes, but then lied about the fact she didn't."
The Nebraska contest has special significance for Republicans nationally, not only because the Governor is a woman but because of her profile within the national party.
With the backing of Bush supporters, Governor Orr was named chairwoman of the platform committee at the 1988 Republican National Convention.
 
More Republicans in State
 In winning her first term in 1986, Mrs. Orr defeated Helen Boosalis, the Democratic mayor of Lincoln, in the nation's first contest for governor in which two women representing the two major parties competed.
Although registered Republicans outnumber Democrats in Nebraska, and the state historically goes strongly Republican in Presidential elections, no Republican governor has been re-elected to a second term here since 1957.
In recent years, the state has also sent two Democrats to the United States Senate. The senior senator, former Gov. Jim Exon, seems assured of winning re-election to a third term next week. He has a substantial lead in the polls over Hal Daub, a former Republican Congressman from Omaha.
Mr. Nelson, who is 49 years old, won the Democratic primary last spring only after a recount upheld his slim margin of 41 votes. Even so, party regulars have united behind his campaign, and his background as a insurance executive seems to appeal to many Republican voters.
 
Tax Issue Is Raised
 The Democratic strategy so far has been to keep strong pressure on Mrs. Orr on the tax question, and try to depict her as a big spender who cannot be trusted.
In response, Republicans have unleashed a barrage of accusations against Mr. Nelson, raising questions about his financial and business dealings, and criticizing him for refusing to make public his income tax returns, as the Governor has.
As is the case in other states, there is a widely shared perception here that this season's political campaigns are more negative than usual. The Omaha World-Herald, the state's largest newspaper, wrote an editorial this week: "How revolting this year's political season has become. It's hard not to turn away in disgust."
Pepper Horvatich, who farms with her husband in Hooper, a small town about 50 miles west of here, said she was so repulsed by the ads she did not know which candidate to support. "Times like this you wish there was a third party," she said.
Professor Johnson and others expect a strong turnout on Election Day, in part because of several ballot initiatives that have drawn wide public interest, including a referendum that would put an annual cap of 2 percent on increases in state spending.
 
Anger Over Dump Site
 Governor Orr's campaign has also run into turbulence in rural northeast Nebraska, where she has backed a plan to situate a low-level nuclear waste dump that would serve Nebraska and surrounding states.
The Republican organization in Boyd County, the site of the planned dump, was so incensed by her support for the plan that it endorsed Mr. Nelson.
Mrs. Orr and other Republicans running statewide are also closely watching an unexpectedly tight Congressional race in western Nebraska, where Representative Virginia Smith, the dean of Republican women in Congress, is retiring after 16 years.
In recent years, the popular Mrs. Smith provided some long coattails for other Republicans by ritually running up winning close to 80 percent of the vote. But Democrats are making a race of it this fall, with Sandy Scofield, a state legislator, running neck and neck in the opinion polls with Bill Barrett, a Republican.
 
Help on the Trail
 With the campaign in its final days, Mr. Nelson took to the stump this week at the side of Senator Bob Kerrey, the popular former Governor.
But Mrs. Orr, who has outspent her Democratic opponent two to one, was accompanied by an even more potent figure on a six-city tour of the state Wednesday. At her side was Bob Devaney, the athletic director at the University of Nebraska, and a man venerated for making the Nebraska football team a national powerhouse.
At a stop in Omaha, Mr. Devaney received as big a hand as the Governor when he assured the crowd that the Cornhuskers, who are currently unbeaten and ranked third in the nation, would not have been as successful without the support of Governor Orr.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Kay A. Orr of Nebraska, who is running for re- election next week, pumping ethanol-blended fuel yesterday into a sheriff's car in Douglas County,which has just switched the fuel for its vehicles from unleaded gasoline. With her was Howard Buffett of the Ethanol Authority and Development Board. (Associated Press)(pg11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (97%); 

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEBRASKA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION ; RURAL AREAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WOMEN (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TRENDS (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); MAYORS (72%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ORR, KAY A (GOV); NELSON, BEN ; SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E BEN NELSON (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



74 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Candidates Shying From Florio

BYLINE: By PETER KERR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Democratic candidates in New Jersey this fall have generally avoided appearing on the stump with Jim Florio, the Governor who a year ago was elected with 62 percent of the vote. The reason is his $2.8 billion in tax increases, a program that has helped drive his approval ratings in polls below 20 percent.
But despite finding himself treated as if he were a man with the flu, the Governor continues to defend his program, just as he continues to voice faith in the future of class politics for Democrats.
Ignoring criticism and the polls with a persistence that makes some fellow Democrats nervous, he insists that promoting what he regards as sound policy will eventually be rewarded politically. 
 "The polls and politics of the moment come and go," said Mr. Florio, who will not face re-election until 1993. "We're in this for the long haul."
The loneliness of Mr. Florio's approach seemed highlighted on Thursday night, when he appeared on a dais at an EssexCounty Democratic dinner with New Jersey's two Senators.
Mr. Bradley, the state's senior Senator who appears highly popular as he seeks a third term, talked about the possibilities for America created by the end of the cold war, and he urged support for local candidates. Not once did he mention Mr. Florio, who sat only yards away.
Mr. Florio, by contrast, praised Mr. Bradley and repeated his theme that Republicans will now be seen as the protectors of the rich who have lacked the courage for tough decisions.
"The Democratic tide is rising," Mr. Florio said. "Their decade, for the speculators, is over."
Then the state's junior Senator, Frank R.Lautenberg, sang the praises of Mr. Bradley. And he said of Mr. Florio: "Now, Jim Florio may not be somebody with whom you always agree, but Jim Florio stands up for what he believes in."
Mr. Florio's tax program, enacted in June by the Legislature, raised the sales tax one percentage point to close a budget gap. It also raised income taxes for the top 17 percent of wage earners. The administration said it did this to increase aid to less affluent school districts and to middle-class homeowners. Mr. Florio says middle-income New Jerseyans will support the program when they receive larger property tax rebates next year.
Since Labor Day, Mr. Florio has appeared at several Democratic fund-raising dinners, where he has generally been received warmly. He has also made a number of joint appearances with one of three Democrats in special legislative elections, Edward H. Salmon, who is running for the State Senate in Ocean County.
He has plunged into crowds on behalf of Democrats around his old district near Phil adelphia and at a campaign appearance Thursday in Hudson County, two heavily Democratic areas.
But in the 13 congressional races, most Democrats have preferred to keep Mr. Florio at a distance. Even a onetime Florio follower, Robert Andrews, running for the Governor's old seat in the First Congressional District, has criticized parts of the Governor's tax plan.
In the 12th District, Marguerite Chandler went from standing by Mr. Florio's side during the tax battle last June to taking out radio ads attacking the plan after his popularity plummeted this fall.
Mr. Bradley has refused to comment on the Florio tax package, saying it is a state matter, not a Federal one. Mr. Florio has not appeared with him at campaign stops.
Meanwhile, Mr. Florio has given a series of speeches on the state's problems in education and in dealing with AIDS and on his plans for new construction projects to stimulate the economy.
 
Few Signs of Forgiveness
 But a number of Republicans and Democrats in the state believe he may be making a severe political miscalculation. Though recent polls indicate that support for Republicans has eroded in New Jersey and around the nation since President Bush's deadlock with Congress over the Federal budget, there is no evidence from polls or local campaigns that many people are forgiving Governor Florio.
Steven A. Salmore, a Republican consultant, said that while voters may eventually forget a tax increase, they will probably remember Mr. Florio as a man who raised taxes with enthusiasm just months after promising in his election campaign that he "saw no need" for new taxes.
"The reaction is twofold," Mr. Salmore said. "One is to the taxes. The other is to the person. It is not just that he went back on his promise not to raise taxes. It is that he went back gleefully."
In July, the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University released a poll showing that the percentage of New Jerseyans who viewed Mr. Florio favorably had dropped to less than 25 percent right after the taxes were passed. But perhaps most devastating to the Governor was a poll released Oct. 14. It showed that after months of speaking out in the state on behalf of his tax program, he was seen even more unfavorably.
"He could talk about something else, anything else," one Democratic official said of Mr. Florio's talk of taxes. "Here's a horse that keeps on coming in dead last every time, and they keep saying, 'Let's get on that horse and ride it again.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jim Florio has generally been avoided by New Jersey Democratic candidates campaigning for state and local offices. Mr. Florio spoke on Thursday at a meeting of Essex County Democrats in West Orange. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)b (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTIONS; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (85%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); SALES TAX (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COLD WAR (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); TAX RELIEF (72%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (69%); US LABOR DAY (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); INFLUENZA (56%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); KERR, PETER FRANK LAUTENBERG (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



75 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Wilding Youth And Homeless: A Blood Feud

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
The footbridge between Wards Island and Manhattan arches between two groups of people who dislike each other despite their shared struggle against poverty and drugs.
On one side, hundreds of homeless men struggling to find work and housing live in a shelter that is rife with drug abuse and its running mates, prostitution and robbery. On the other side of the bridge live the striving poor of the East River Houses and other tenements. 
 In the wake of the Halloween attacks on the homeless that killed one man, the police are focusing their investigation on the projects and adjoining neighborhoods, where young men on the street say there was no love lost between them and the homeless, whom they described as crack addicts and worse.
Investigators believe the attackers, who wore Halloween masks and wielded knives and bats, were from the neighborhood because they apparently knew that the homeless men in the shelter habitually cross the drawbridge shortly before 10 P.M., when it is raised for the night, Capt. Daniel McKenna of the Manhattan Detectives said.
"We're pretty comfortable they came out of that area," said Captain McKenna. "They knew the bridge."
That theory is bolstered by a history of similar assaults by local youths against the homeless during the last two years, Captain McKenna said. Detectives yesterday were interviewing people arrested in a series of attacks on the bridge in early 1989. "We've got a couple of people we have spoken to in the area," the captain said. But, he said, no one had been arrested by last night.
In interviews, shelter residents said the youths from the projects attack them several times a week for sport, sometimes robbing them of the few dollars they have from welfare payments or jobs. Many said they do not report the attacks.
On the other side of the water, local youths accused the shelter residents of being crack addicts who bring prostitution and crime to their asphalt courtyards and playgrounds.
"They be coming into our park and smoking crack," said Vincent Perez, 16, a student at Julia Richman High School. "They expose themselves to little children. Especially at night. We can't even play in the park anymore. They snatch old ladies purses."
 
'All These Things Boil Up'
 Another youth, Raymond Page, 20, said: "All these things boil up together and people take the holiday of Halloween to pay back the homeless. They figure nobody will say anything about it because most of the people are crackheads."
The homeless say such sentiments are evidence of a growing bigotry. They say the youths, who have little opportunity themselves, want to set themselves above others.
"They treat us like we're dogs, or dirt," said one homeless man, Pete Williams, 27. "They walk over us."
But other homeless residents acknowleged that the dark, weed-choked woods at the foot of the bridge on the island are flooded with people smoking crack at night and that some residents of the shelter mug people coming off the bridge. The criminals among the homeless have given the youths an excuse for violence, they said.
 
'Let's Go Beat Them Up'
 "You've got a large number of people doped out over here, hanging out in the open," said a 40-year-old homeless man who asked to be identified as Ronald. "It gives them a reason to look down on us. They say, 'Hey, there's a bunch of crackheads. Let's go beat them up.' "
In interviews, several youths in the East River Houses confirmed that they had seen other youths assault homeless people on the bridge for fun. All said they had not participated in the Halloween attack, although some acknowleged attacking shelter residents in the past.
"Some people want to just beat them up for nothing," said Robert Raveneu, 15. "Every day you see it."
The youths said the gang attacks on homeless people were part of the hip-hop generation's form of recreational crime sometimes called "wilding." In its mildest form, they said, roving teen-agers, who may only know each other loosely, collect on the street and raid department stores en masse, knocking down the clerks and absconding with goods.
 
Peer Pressure and Hate
 "They go block to block, and they get bigger and bigger," said Jarrell Vulture, 18. "Then they go do their thing."
Sometimes "their thing" includes robbing people purely for excitement, Mr. Vulture said. Worse, as in the Central Park jogger case and Wednesday's attacks, the violence sometimes escalates to rape and murder. Several youths said beating or knifing someone raised them in the eyes of their peers.
But Mr. Page said the attacks on the homeless were "a mix between peer pressure and hate."
"You look around and see a neighborhood going to pot" because of the homeless, he said.
"If you slice somebody up around here and people find out, that makes you look big," said Mr. Perez. "Everybody says it makes you feel big."
 
Fair Fights Are Old-Fashioned
 The notion of a fair fight in these encounters is outdated, the youths said, and pulling a knife or ganging up on a victim is praiseworthy because the attackers outwitted their prey. The worst possible fate is to be a "sucker" or be "caught playing out of position" -- be caught unawares.
On Wards Island, the attacks have left homeless men terrified, complaining that the police do not patrol the island and the city has failed to put lights along the dark path between the bridge and the Charles H. Gay mens's shelter where most of the muggings take place.
Keith Summa, an advocate with the Coalition for the Homless, said attacks against homeless people have been rising steadily for the last two years.
In a shanty town on Wards Island yesterday, Michael Gonsalves, a 31-year-old unemployed laborer, gingerly touched his cheek, which was ripped open from his left ear to his upper lip by a meat cleaver on Wednesday night, and said he fully expected more attacks at Thanksgiving and Christmas.
"Every holiday they do it," Mr. Gonsalves said. "On holidays it's fair game. They just go for it."

GRAPHIC: Map: Manhattan, indicating Wards Island, the site of the Halloween attacks (The New York Times) (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WARDS ISLAND (NYC); MANHATTAN (NYC)

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; HALLOWEEN; VIOLENCE; HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (92%); HALLOWEEN (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); COCAINE (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); ROBBERY (76%); ARRESTS (75%); INDECENT EXPOSURE (71%); INTERVIEWS (65%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



76 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Drop Again

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
The Government index designed to forecast turning points in the economy skidded eight-tenths of 1 percent in September, its second straight monthly drop, the Commerce Department reported today.
Nine of the 11 components of the index of leading indicators declined, paced by tumbling stock market prices. 
 The report, combined with separate figures the Government reported today on labor market conditions during October, thickened the gloom over economic prospects and left only a few diehards contending that a recession may still be avoided.
 
 'Prospect Is Inevitable'

 "The United States economy is headed for a recession, if it's not already begun," said Robert L. Marks of Siff, Oakley & Marks, a New York consulting firm. "That prospect is inevitable."
As a rule of thumb, a string of three straight declines in the leading index is regarded as pointing to an economic downturn. The decline for September followed a 1.2 percent fall in August and a reading of unchanged for July after a gain of one-tenth of 1 percent in June.
The index sometimes predicts recessions that do not occur, however, as when it recorded four straight declines starting with October 1987, at the time of the stock market collapse, and the three months following.
 
Drop in Coincident Indicators
 Meanwhile, a companion index that gauges current economic conditions, the index of coincident indicators, fell for the third straight month in September, the first time this has happened since 1982, the year in which the latest recession ended and which marked the beginning of a record-length peacetime expansion.
The decline of eight-tenths of 1 percent in the leading index was largely as expected, since most of its components have been published previously. But the report nonetheless contributed to the conviction among most economists that a recession was no longer avoidable.
The only element in the index to rise was a fairly large rebound, to July levels, in contracts and orders placed by companies for new plant and equipment. Many companies have continued to invest in such modernization this year to remain efficient and competitive but analysts said today that this may be fading, too.
The components that contributed to the index decline, besides lower stock prices, were, in order, a decline in manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods and materials, an increase in weekly initial claims for state unemployment insurance, declines in building permits, consumer expectations, manufacturers' unfilled orders, the money supply, a speedup in deliveries by vendors and a drop in the price of materials that are particularly sensitive to the business cycle.
The Federal Reserve's chairman, Alan Greenspan, is believed to regard vendor performance -- represented as the percentage of companies reporting slower deliveries from suppliers -- as highly revealing because of what it says about possible bottlenecks in the production chain. For September, the index edged down to 49.9 percent, from 51.1 percent, suggesting slightly speedier deliveries as the economy slackens.
 
 No Change in Work Week

The 11th component, the length of the average work week, was unchanged for September. Today's Labor Department report on the job market in October, however, showed a big decline in working hours throughout the private sector.
The jobless report also showed that, although the October unemployment rate remained unchanged at 5.7 percent, employment fell by 187,000 as measured by the household survey and 68,000 as measured by business payrolls.
The Commerce Department's index of lagging indicators, those that tend to move only after the economy turns, eased two-tenths of 1 percent in September. This meant that the ratio of coincident and lagging indicators, which economists consider an alternate predictor of turns in the economy, moved down to 1.1299 from 1.1322.
A private forecasting index compiled by Safian Investment Research in New York fell 1.4 percent in September, its lowest point since January 1987. Of its 23 components, 15 declined, 7 rose and 1 was unchanged.

GRAPHIC: Graphic: analysis chart of components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from August to September, 1990 (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (pg. 43)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); RETAILERS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



77 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
In Switch of Campaign Tactics, the Kinder, Gentler Bush Emerges

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Minn., Nov. 2

 BODY:
With some advisers urging him to be Harry Truman and some pressing him to be Dwight Eisenhower, President Bush has finally come down on the side of Mr. Eisenhower.
Mr. Bush has abruptly dropped the slash-and-burn approach he had planned to use through Election Day, modeled on the way Harry Truman campaigned in 1948 as a fiery Washington "outsider," criticizing the Government he was running and the opposition party. 
 Instead, Mr. Bush is trying to take a moderate, bipartisan approach, one that seems more Presidential and that some of his advisers refer to, in shorthand, as "Eisenhower."
With an implicit acknowledgement that it does not play well to denounce Democrats as big taxers so soon after cooperating with them to raise taxes as part of a budget compromise, and that it is difficult to run as an outsider when he has developed an image as an insider, Mr. Bush has put aside the scorching speech he unveiled on Monday at the Cowboy Hall of Fame in Oklahoma City.
 
Old Aide's New Influence
 The speech was a blistering catalogue of the Democrats sins, accusing them of slowing the economy and stalling the budget deal for partisan gain, mortgaging the future of children and turning their backs on the American dream, stuffing the budget with pork barrel items and behaving with arrogance, ineptitude and selfishness.
His chief of staff, John H. Sununu, and Mr. Sununu's aide Ed Rogers, who is the de facto head of the White House political office, liked the aggressive speech.
But White House officials said that Robert Teeter, a longtime Bush strategist who lives in Michigan but who has been spending more time at the White House of late to help get it out of a slump, found the speech too unstatesmanlike. Moreover, he thought the President could not get away with the attacks on the Democrats over taxes so soon after working with them on the budget deal.
Mr. Teeter is a poll taker who was a strategist for Ronald Reagan and in the Bush campaign. Early in Mr. Bush's Administration Mr. Sununu quashed an attempt to have Mr. Teeter work in the White House as a Presidential counselor, in a position equal to the chief of staff. But now the two men are working together.
"The President decided he wanted a more positive tone in the last five days," said the White House press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater.
The first speech got a fast response from Democratic leaders, who accused Mr. Bush of cynically ignoring the fact that he had spent much of his Presidency promoting the idea of governing with a bipartisan consensus. Mr. Bush's five months of budget negotiations were, after all, the epitome of Washington deal-making.
 
Some 'Flamboyant Rhetoric'
 Yet even with a tilt toward a new tone today, the President continued to offer a little "flamboyant rhetoric," as he calls it, against "liberal" Democrats.
"The Democrats wanted to do it all by raising taxes, including income tax rate increases for working Americans with that insidious indexing provision," he told a rally in Rochester, Minn., for Senator Rudy Boschwitz. "And thanks to Rudy and others up there, we beat it. Beat it to its knees."
The crowd at John Marshall High School was enthusiastic as the President promised that Saddam Hussein of Iraq would "pay the price" for bullying his neighbors.
But Mr. Bush's devotion to bipartisanship does prevent his rallies from having a punchy, rousing partisan pitch.
His new speech, which he is giving in campaign appearances in eight states before the next Tuesday's elections, focuses mainly on the accomplishments of his Administration and on the Persian Gulf crisis.
He says his Administration has made strides in child care and raising awareness of the war on drugs and in anti-crime legislation.
"Our agenda is not fulfilled," he said today, "but our ideas are still strong and they're still sound."
 
Hitler Reference Disappears
 Mr. Bush continued today to make a reference to Harry Truman, but merely to note that the buck does indeed stop at his desk, and that is why he had to compromise on a budget deal. Mr. Bush's Clint Eastwood sneer, and the majority of his most inflammatory lines have been put aside. Instead he talks about how supportive Democrats have been on the Persian Gulf issue.
"I will say at the very outset that regardless of the politics, the Democratic leaders in the House and the Democratic leaders in the Senate have been extraordinarily cooperative," he said.
In a bow to criticism about his comparison of Saddam Hussein to Hitler, Mr. Bush dropped that reference from today's speeches.
His focus on the Persian Gulf has provoked some charges that he is using the issue for partisan gain, trying to strengthen his own floundering fortunes and those of Republican candidates hurt by coming tax increases and the curdling economy.
Asked whether he should talk about the Middle East crisis at rallies with political flags behind him, Mr. Bush replied at his press conference on Thursday: "I go to great ends to make sure that I give proper credit to the Democrats and the Republicans in Congress; make clear that this is not a partisan effort that we're involved in here."
 
Awkward Relationship
 Mr. Bush's sometimes-awkward relationship with Republican candidates was underscored again tonight when he arrived for a rally in Sioux City, Iowa.
Representative Fred Grandy of Iowa, who once played the character Gopher on the television program "Love Boat," shared the stage with Mr. Bush. But only a week or so ago, one of Mr. Grandy's top aides was quoted by The Associated Press saying that Mr. Grandy did not want to use any advertising linked to the President because the budget ordeal had made Mr. Bush "radioactive."
Nodding to Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa, who was on stage with him, Mr. Bush said dryly: "I'm glad to be standing here with a Senator who does support me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with Senator Rudy Boschwitz at a rally in Rochester, Minn., where Mr. Bush campaigned yesterday for fellow Republicans. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (89%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MINNESOTA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BOSCHWITZ, RUDY (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



78 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Credit Markets Calm, Awaiting Auctions

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
After an early flurry of activity, trading in Treasury securities declined yesterday as most market participants moved to the sidelines to await the Government's record refunding auctions next week. Prices were minimally higher late in the day.
The day's most important economic indicator, the Government's report on October employment, contributed to the dismal picture of the economy but was considered positive on balance for the bond market and prompted some buying after it was released just before the opening. 
 While the unemployment rate was unchanged at 5.7 percent, the number of nonfarm jobs declined by 68,000 in October.
 
 Data Had Been Anticipated
 "Looking beyond the raw numbers, the bond market was buoyed by the big drop in hours worked and earnings last month," said William V. Sullivan Jr., senior vice president of Dean Witter Reynolds. "As usual, any negative economic news is welcome by the fixed-income market."
In any event, Mr. Sullivan said the jobless data had been largely expected and absorbed on Thursday, when bond prices soared on speculation that the new signs of economic distress would prompt the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates further. After brief carry-over buying at the opening yesterday, Mr. Sullivan added, "the market's major preoccupation was positioning for next week's record $34.25 billion refunding auctions."
On Tuesday, the Treasury will auction $12.5 billion of three-year notes, followed by $11 billion of 10-year notes the next day and $10.75 billion of 30-year bonds on Thursday. The three issues each rose a basis point, or a hundredth of a percentage point, in trading on a when-issued basis.
Thus, the anticipated yields are 7.84 percent for the three-year notes; 8.55 percent for the 10-year notes, and 8.69 percent for the 30-year bonds.
In late trading in the secondary debt market, the new 7.75 percent notes of 1992, auctioned on Wednesday at an average yield of 7.84 percent, were offered at 100 5/32, off 1/32 on the day, and now yield 7.66 percent.
 Because of a recent increase in basic interest rates in Germany and Japan, where 10-year bonds are considered bellwether issues, attention was again focused on the Treasury's 10-year notes.
Late in the day, the Treasury's long notes, the 8.75 percent issue that matures in August 2000, were offered at 101 8/32, down 3/32 on the day, to yield 8.55 percent, compared with 8.62 percent a week ago. By comparison, the 10-year Japanese bonds fell to 7.73 percent, from 7.87 percent on Friday, and the 10-year German bonds dipped a basis point, to 8.97 percent.
 
 Yield Up on Long Bonds
 The Treasury's benchmark long bonds, the 8.75's of August 2020, were offered late in the day at 100 21/32, off 2/32. The yield rose to 8.68 percent, from 8.67 the day before. But the long bond's yield was well below the 8.77 percent of a week ago.
At the short end of the market, the discount rate on 90-day bills rose 3 basis points, to 7.09 percent; six-month bills gained 2 basis points, to 7.05 percent, and one-year bills rose 3 basis points, to 6.88 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); 

COMPANY: DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST (MONEY) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



79 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: SHARP DROP FOUND IN NUMBER OF JOBS IN U.S. WORKPLACE

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
The number of jobs in the nation declined markedly in October, particularly in construction and manufacturing. The unemployment rate remained steady at 5.7 percent, but only because the number of Americans looking for work also shrank, the Government reported today.
The figures, the first comprehensive view of economic performance in October, were the latest in a nearly unbroken successsion of recent reports reflecting various degrees of stagnation or contraction of business activity. The data prompted more economists to join a growing chorus of experts who have declared the demise of the record peacetime expansion that began in 1982. 
 The Labor Department's survey of businesses found that the number of jobs fell 68,000 in October, following a 52,000 decline in September. The layoff of temporary census workers was no longer a significant factor in the figures as it has been for much of the year. The September figures were revised slightly for the better, offsetting a revision in the other direction for August.
 
More Bleak News
 The job report, along with another Government report on the economy, thickened the gloom over economic prospects. The Government index for forecasting turning points in the economy skidded by eight-tenths of 1 percent in September, its second straight monthly drop. Nine of the 11 components of the index of leading indicators declined. [Page 33.]
In an appearance before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, which received the jobs report this morning, Lawrence Chimerine, an economist for Data Resources Inc., gave a dismal view of the economy. "As of right now it is declining quite rapidly," he told the panel. He said he foresaw a "moderate" recession that would extend to mid-1991. But he said it was quite possible that the contraction would be deeper and longer.
 
Opposing Points of View
 His pessimistic view was seconded by Donald H. Straszheim, chief economist for Merrill Lynch, who raised the possibility that because of the fragile condition of banks and other financial institutions, "we could end up with the longest and most severe" recession since World War II.
But Lawrence A. Kudlow, a former Reagan Administration official who is now chief economist at Bear, Stearns & Company, dissented. While asserting that recession risks were real and that tax increases would make them worse, Mr. Kudlow said the economy was still slowly moving ahead. Recession remains "only a forecast," he added.
Asked whether the nation was in a recession, the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Janet L. Norwood, said, "I don't really know." But she repeatedly pointed to signs of a weak economy.
As a rule of thumb, the economy is considered to be in recession after two consecutive quarters of decline in the gross national product, the total output of goods and services. For the last six quarters, the nation's economy has been growing very sluggishly, but there has not been a decline in any quarter.
 
Factory and Construction Losses
 The job report included strong evidence of an accelerating slide, with 80,000 construction jobs and 61,000 factory jobs lost in October. The construction industry's unemployment rate rose to 13.2 percent from 11.8 percent. The further disappearance of factory jobs brought the total of lost jobs to 175,000 for the latest three months. All told, 580,000 factory jobs have been lost since the peak employment level of January 1989, a total decline of 3 percent. For the third straight month, more industries lost jobs than gained them and there was a widely spread drop of a full half-hour, to 34.2 hours, in the length of the average workweek in the private sector.
The combination of fewer workers and shorter hours produced what Jeffrey R. Leeds, a senior economist at Chemical Bank, called a "very sharp" 1.6 percent skid in the index of the total number of hours worked in October, which fell to 123.3. This barometer had been steady in the third quarter, standing at 125.3 in both June and September.
 
Pressure on Monetary Policy
 While neither the Labor Department's report nor the Commerce Department report on its Index of Leading Indicators was a major surprise, the bleak news appeared to increase pressure on the Federal Reserve to further relax monetary policy by putting more money into the banking system, which in turn has the effect of trimming short-term interest rates.
The stock market appeared to rally on this prospect but for various reasons, including a weak dollar and the military confrontation in the Persian Gulf, analysts were not convinced that the Fed, which made a small cut on Monday, would move quickly.
In her monthly interpretation of the job figures for Congress, Dr. Norwood noted that the trend in payroll jobs had weakened each month since June as sizable declines in goods-producing jobs had barely been offset by gains in service jobs. "Indeed, even the usually robust service sector has lost much of its vitality during the period," she added. Much of the growth in service jobs occurred in the health-care field, which does relatively little to stimulate the economy. The health industry accounts for 12 percent of private employment but has produced 39 percent of the growth in private-service jobs over the past year.
In all, the economy generated 74,000 new service jobs last month but this was more than offset by a 142,000 drop in goods-producing jobs. Retail trade lost about 50,000 jobs, including 15,000 in department stores where early holiday hiring fell short of expectations.
Just under 45 percent of industries were adding to payrolls last month, the same as in September, but for manufacturing industries these optimists represent a decided minority of 37.8 percent, down from 48.2 percent as recently as July. Wholesale trade lost 10,000 jobs as problems in manufacturing and construction continued to hurt employment in distribution, the report also showed.
The department's separate survey of households showed that the ranks of those who had lost their last jobs, as opposed to quitting them, did not rise markedly as it had in September. An increase in dismissed workers was nearly offset by a decline in layoffs.
Over all, the ranks of the jobless rose by a scant 4,000, with a 187,000 decline in jobs nearly matched by a 183,000 decline in the labor force, the number of people working or actively looking for work.
 
A Changing Population
 The recent slow growth of the labor force is occurring largely because relatively few people are coming of working age. This has kept the unemployment rate from rising much more than it has, Dr. Norwood observed. The labor force grew by only about 600,000 people over the past year, only one-third of the pace of the late 1980's.
This has meant that the proportion of the population with jobs and the proportion of the population in the labor force have both begun to decline in recent months from record levels.
Some of the largest states experienced wide swings in unemployment rates last month. Unemployment in Illinois fell 1.3 percentage points, to 5.9 percent, while unemployment in North Carolina rose by nine-tenths of a point, to 4.6 percent, and joblessness in Ohio increased by seven-tenths of a point, to 5.9 percent, in Ohio. The New York State unemployment rate edged up a statistically insignificant one-tenth of a percentage point, to 5.6 percent.
By region, the jobless rates were 5.5 percent in the Northeast and South, 5.3 percent in the West and 5.2 percent in the Midwest, according to figures not adjusted for seasonal variation.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing index of 11 economic indicators. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg1); Table listing the labor picture. (pg8); Graph showing civilian unemployment rate. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (57%); MER (NYSE) (57%); 8675 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; STATES (US) EMPLOYMENT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); RECESSION (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CENSUS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); TAX LAW (65%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



80 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-7
The Secretary of State has cautioned President Bush not to use military force impulsively, even though he shares his instinct to confront Iraq, Administration officials say. Page 1
The President will go to Saudi Arabia during an eight-day trip to review the Persian Gulf crisis. The announcement came as Iraq said it would free four American hostages. 6
Iraq captured three French soldiers near the Saudi border this week but, in an apparent an effort to woo Paris, turned them over to the French Embassy in Baghdad. 6
D.E.A. denies link to bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 3
Pretoria will free political prisoners and allow exiles to return to South Africa under an agreement reached between the Government and the African National Congress. 5
Emergency U.N. relief convoy leaves for central Angola 3
A mob of militant Hindus converged on a disputed mosque in Ayodhya once again but were beaten back byIndian troops. Estimates of the death toll varied from 10 to 100. 3
Two explosions have shaken Japan, raising the specter of violence as dignitaries gather for Emperor Akihito's enthronement ceremony. The bombings at two Tokyo police stations killed one and wounded six. 4
The former East German leader, Erich Honecker, said the Soviet Union had intrigued to bring about the collapse of the Communist governments of Eastern Europe. 7
Ethnic violence flared in Moldavia after vigilantes entered a town in the Russian-speaking region that has declared its independence from the Soviet republic. Six people were killed and 30 wounded. 7
Panama's leader has been frustrated as his Government tries to rebuild the nation after two decades of military rule. Public expectations have outpaced the significant steps President Guillermo Endara has made. 1
Sarandi Journal: Land without people, people without land 4
 
 National 8-11, 26
The unemployment rate held steady at 5.7 percent in October, the Government reported, but the job market, particularly in construction and manufacturing, deteriorated. 1
A Government economic index fell by eight-tenths of 1 percent in September. It was the second straight monthly drop for the index of leading indicators, the Commerce Department reported. 33
The insurance industry is under fire on a number of fronts. Frustrated by rate increases and restrictions on coverage, consumer groups and government officials want a greater say in how insurers do business. 1
AIDS patients may get Federal housing funds26
Gov. Kay Orr faces a tough fight for re-election in Nebraska, polls show, even though the state's unemployment rate, at 2.1 percent, is the nation's lowest and the farm economy is as healthy as it has been in a decade. 1
Truman, Eisenhower or just Bush? With advisers pushing him one way or another, the President has dropped his Truman-like, slash-and-burn campaign and adopted a more moderate, Eisenhower-like posture. 10
Group links support of porn to lawmaker's support of N.E.A. 11
Republicans hoping to ride anti- incumbency tide in Georgia 11
Republican in Texas governor's race tries to bounce back 10
Attorney General in Arkansas found guilty of theft 9
Once again Marion Barry is running -- not for Mayor of Washington but for a less lofty seat on the City Council and, after his conviction for cocaine possession, a shot at redemption. 10 Delegate race in D.C. focuses on taxes -- the candidate's 10
Philadelphia Journal: A city waiting until the cash runs out 8
When did life crawl out of the sea? The transition of animal life from sea to land has long been thought to have occurred 400 million years ago, but new fossil discoveries are pushing that date back millions of years. 9
U.S. cannot approve nuclear plants before construction 8
Man kills four children and wounds three in Mississippi 8
 
Regional 27-30
Several major financial institutions -- including the five commodities exchanges -- are contemplating leaving New York City and taking thousands of jobs with them. 1
The Daily News gave away copies because harassment of news vendors has cut deeply into circulation. The publisher, James Hoge, said he would give away 200,000 copies a day. 1
For those who cross the line, the newsroom is a lonely place 30
Mario Cuomo is campaigning harder than he did in his 1986 gubernatorial race, refusing to take voters for granted in a year when incumbents seem unusually vulnerable. 27
Lowell Weicker's independent race for governor of Connecticut has capitalized on a growing antipathy toward incumbents and partisan politics. He leads in opinion polls going into the election on Tuesday. 28
Jim Florio is not stumping much. Senator Bradley and other Democratic candidates have avoided appearing on the trail with the Governor who increased taxes $2.8 billion. 27
Christine Whitman's run for Senate is chipping away at Senator Bradley for his stance on state taxes and campaign spending. And while she has gained momentum, few give her much chance of winning. 28
 Tenth game of chess championship ends in quick draw 29
The gang attack on the homeless on Wards Island on Halloween underscores the animosity between the homeless men who live on the island and the poor youths who live across the river. 27
The jogger was cross-examined by a defense lawyer who tried to suggest that her boyfriend had attacked her in a jealous rage because she was seeing someone else. 27
Anti-Semitic letter strikes fear in Brooklyn neighborhood 29
Corruption at New York Telephone wider than indicated 33
Toys "R" Us is opening huge store in Manhattan 33

Business Digest 33
Sports
Basketball: Knicks win in overtime 45
Nets lose to Pacers 45
Celtics' new offense works 47
Column: Berkow on Tyson 45
Football: Top ranking at stake 45
Giants' Cooks faces former team 47
Taylor angered by Cosell 47
Hockey: Islanders end Rangers' home streak 45
Marathon: Weather may be frightful 45
Tennis: Showdown for No. 1 shaping up 47
Consumer's World 50
Concern over insurers
Air-bag recall widening
Coping with finding your way by car
Guidepost
Obituaries
Eliot Porter, a photographer 18
William H. Beasley 3d, ex-head of Lone Star Technologies 19 Arts/Entertainment
William Paley's collection of art will go to the Museum of Modern Art. The collection of 19th- and 20th-century paintings and sculptures was described as one of the most significant gifts ever given to the museum. 1
"Ghost" is top movie 13
Theater: "Famine Plays" 14
Circus: Big Apple single ring 13
Film: "Graffiti Bridge" 13
Music: "Siroe" by Handel 12
John Goldsby Quintet 12
Hard-bop solos from the 1950's 16
Dance: A troupe from Brazil 12
Kenneth King's "Dancing Wor(l)ds" 16
Book: Artists' visions of World War II 17
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials 24
Cuomo fund-raising overkill
Government by cabal -- again
The N.E.A.'s new lease on life
Letters 24
Russell Baker: A dog at sunrise 25
Flora Lewis: Help Iraqis do it 25
Salman Rushdie: Excerpts from his new book 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); PANAMA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ANGOLA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GULF STATES (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (85%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (85%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); RELIGION (68%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (67%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); PUBLIC HOUSING (63%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); AIDS & HIV (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



81 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
The leading indicators skidded by 0.8 percent in September, the second straight monthly drop for the Government index designed to forecast turning points in the economy, the Commerce Department reported. [Page 33.]
The insurance industry, long accustomed to operating out of the limelight, is being challenged on many fronts by consumer groups and government officials. [1.] Questions are being raised about insurance guaranty funds. [50.]
 The number of jobs declined markedly in October, mainly in construction and manu facturing, but a shrinkage in the nation's labor force kept the unemployment rate steady at 5.7 percent, the Government re ported. The figures were the latest in a nearly unbroken succession of gloomy re ports and prompted assertions by many economists that the record peacetime expan sion that began in late 1982 has ended. [1.]
Several big financial institutions are considering leaving New York and taking thousands of jobs with them. [1.]
 COMPANIES
Rupert Murdoch's Sky Television will merge with British Satellite Broadcasting. The archrivals had waged a bitter marketing war for dominance over a new British television market. [33.]
A broader problem of corruption at New York Telephone's buildings department than had been previously indicated was described by the company's president. [33.]
The new Toys "R" Us store that will anchor the Herald Center in Manhattan will be the company's first downtown, multi-level store in a large city and, if successful, will lead the nation's largest toy seller in an entirely new direction. [33.]
The chairman of Carter Hawley Hale is promising better times after being preoccupied for several years by debt concerns. [33.]
Chrysler and Fiat called off a possible merger of their automotive divisions, citing "the overall deterioration in worldwide business conditions." [33.]
Two former Time Warner journalists have settled a bitter dispute with the company over an abrupt decision by a subsidiary to cancel publication of a book they wrote. [37.]
The Daily News is giving away 200,000 papers a day, the publisher said, because so few copies are reaching readers. [1.]
A nuclear plant cannot get permission to operate before it is built, a Federal appeals court ruled. [8.]
Ford Motor said it expected to replace potentially defective air-bag inflators in about 3,000 cars, not 133. [50.]
Electronic Data Systems will not buy Continental Airlines' computer reservation system, the companies said. [35.]
MARKETS
Stock prices advanced briskly in heavy trading, with the Dow climbing 35.89, to 2,490.84, bringing the week's rise to 54.70. [36.]
Prices of Treasury securities were slightly higher as most market participants moved to the sidelines. [36.]
The dollar fell after two Government reports provided further evidence that the economy is weakening. [41.]
Precious metals futures prices fell sharply, led by a drop of more than $15 an ounce for platinum. [41.]
Oil prices fell $1.17 a barrel, to $34, in a weary market that traders said has lost its enthusiasm for going wild on rumors. [44.]
TODAY'S COLUMNS
Some taxpayers in the 28 percent bracket have a rare opportunity in the next few weeks to make investments that yield a double-digit return after taxes, with virtually no risk. Your Money. [34.]
A way to use bar codes to create talking books and labels has been patented by Matsushita Electric Works. Patents. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (55%); F (NYSE) (55%); UAL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (51%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (55%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (51%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); PUBLISHING (73%); METALS MARKETS (72%); PLATINUM MARKETS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (72%); MERGERS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); US DOLLAR (68%); WRITERS (67%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (67%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (62%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); CORRUPTION (52%); APPEALS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



82 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Satmars Win Approval Of Williamsburg Plan

 BODY:
A Federal judge yesterday rejected an attempt by Hispanic groups to block plans by Hasidic Jews to build a 6,000-seat synagogue, a school and faculty housing in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn.
The area's largest Hasidic sect, the Satmar, plans the construction on land that it bought from New York City. But a coalition of Hispanic groups went to court to block the construction, contending that the city had sold the urban-renewal land improperly to foster "a religious enclave." 
 After conducting hearings in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, Judge Eugene H. Nickerson issued a 37-page decision recounting the long history of the project and refusing to block it.
Judge Nickerson said the opponents wanted him to "infer that the city's decision-makers were actuated, at least in part, from 1977 on by an intent to discriminate against Hispanics and in favor of the Hasidim." But he ruled that he could not draw that inference.
Hasidic community representatives have argued that they followed all legal procedures for developing the one-block parcel of land and that it would increase local stability.
The Hispanic groups' lawyers could not say yesterday whether they would appeal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: SATMAR (HASIDIC SECT)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROOKLYN (NYC); WILLIAMSBURG (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: JEWS; HASIDISM; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; PUBLIC PROPERTY RELIGION (96%); JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); JUDGES (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



83 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 35.89 as Gulf Tensions Ease

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stock prices advanced briskly yesterday in heavy trading amid a reduction of tensions in the Persian Gulf, a drop in crude oil prices and increasing evidence that the economy is now so weak that the Federal Reserve may soon cut interest rates again.
On Monday, the Fed cut the Federal funds rate a quarter point, to 7 3/4 percent, and Wall Street now expects another quarter-point cut in the rate, which is the rate banks charge one another for overnight loans. 
 Some traders argued that a good time for the Fed to take action again -- if indeed it does -- might be close to its Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday, when it discusses monetary policy.
 
 Financial Stocks Improve
 Banking, insurance and other financial stocks rose in the expectation that, if rates come down, they will be among the first to benefit. Oil shares also advanced.
By the end of the day, the Dow Jones industrial average had climbed 35.89 points, to 2,490.84, bringing the rise for the week to 54.70.
Trading activity rose to 168.7 million shares, from 159.3 million on Thursday. Showing that the breadth of the gain was strong, 1,091 stocks advanced while only 466 declined.
The difference between the new lows and the new highs, however, was still wide, 95 to 11.
Birinyi Associates, which tracks program trading, said that five waves of heavy buying lifted the Dow close to 16 points throughout the day.
 
 War Seen as Less Likely
 Oil prices slid $1.17 a barrel, to $34. Traders said that because President Bush would leave for several European capitals on Nov. 16, spend Thanksgiving in the Middle East and return to Washington on Nov. 23, the likelihood of war anytime soon seemed less likely. Some had speculated previously that there was a probability of war breaking out after Tuesday's elections.
Wall Street's best guess on when another rate cut might come is that it could happen shortly after the elections and the Treasury's record three-day auction sale ending on Thursday.
In yet another sign that the economy could do with a little lift, yesterday's employment figures showed that it was still losing momentum and, analysts argued, could be losing even more before long.
 
 Rising From the Opening Bell
 From the start of trading yesterday, the Dow began rising. Within an hour it had climbed 17 points; by 1:30 it was ahead 30. It dropped briefly after that but moved steadily ahead for the rest of the day. Oil moved mostly in the other direction. By 11 it was off 70 cents, bouncing back for a while but then heading down again, particularly in the last 15 minutes.
The New York Stock Exchange's financial average, which rose close to 1.5 percent on Thursday, rose 3.5 percent more yesterday. Two big stocks in the index, Citicorp and Fannie Mae, topped the Big Board active list, while a third, American Express, was 10th most active. Citicorp rose 3/4, to 12 5/8, on 4.1 million shares. Fannie Mae rose 7/8, to 29 1/4, on 2.7 million. American Express rose 1, to 19 3/4, on 1.7 million shares.
BankAmerica rose 1, to 20 3/8; Chase Manhattan 5/8, to 15 5/8; First Interstate 1 1/4, to 18 3/4; Security Pacific 1 3/8, to 19 7/8; Wells Fargo 2 1/8, to 45 3/8; Bank of New York 2 1/2, to 17 1/4; J. P. Morgan 1, to 39, and Bankers Trust New York 2 1/8, to 34 1/8.
 
 Gains Among Insurers
 In insurance, Marsh & McLennan rose 3 3/8, to 71 1/2; Lincoln National 3 1/4, to 34 1/2; Aetna Life and Casualty 2 5/8, to 32 3/4; CNA Financial 3 1/8, to 54 7/8; Travelers 1 3/8, to 13 7/8; Continental 1 3/4, to 19 1/8; American International Group 3, to 66 7/8, and General Re 2 3/4, to 81 1/4.
In energy, Texaco rose 3/4, to 60 7/8, on 2.4 million shares; ARCO 1 3/8, to 131 3/4; Mobil 2, to 59 3/4; Hess 1 1/8, to 50 1/2; Tenneco 1 7/8, to 44 5/8; Enron 1 1/2, to 62 1/2; Halliburton 2 1/2, to 48, and Schlumberger 1 7/8, to 59 1/4.
On Nasdaq, State Street Boston rose 3 7/8, to 26 1/4, after its State Street Bank said it would show a $60 million pretax gain on the sale of credit card loans.

GRAPHIC: Chart: The Favorite Stocks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



84 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: After Noriega, Change Comes Slowly and Panama's President Is Frustrated

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA

 BODY:
Despite encouraging signs of national recovery, President Guillermo Endara continues to face political and economic frustrations as his Government tries to rebuild Panama after two decades of military rule.
Since the early morning of Dec. 20, when Mr. Endara was sworn in at a United States military base as American troops massed to invade the country, the new Government has succeeded in staking out the basics of its political and economic authority. 
 The American military presence in daily Panamanian life has diminished and will soon be removed altogether. The economic situation has also begun to stabilize, even in the seemingly intractable area of unemployment.
 
No 'Positive Mandate'
 But against the high, almost euphoric, public expectations that accompanied the overthrow of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, even the important achievements of the Government have appeared tardy or inadequate to many Panamanians. And as a Government of coalition and consensus, it has moved with a slowness and deliberation that has left it open to frequent charges of weakness or poor leadership.
"This Government did not rise to power on the basis of its abilities, but rather on the disabilities of someone else," said a foreign diplomat who has maintained good ties with the Panamanian Government under General Noriega and Mr. Endara alike.
"It was the beneficiary of a vote against Noriega, which gave it moral authority, and an American invasion, which put it in office," the diplomat said. "But it has never enjoyed the kind of positive mandate that would give it real power."
Diplomats and Panamanian politicians say the maneuvering and infighting that once dominated relations between Mr. Endara and his two Vice Presidents, Guillermo Ford and Ricardo Arias Calderon, have finally begun to subside, easing a major source of instability that had hindered their diverse coalition since it was first formed to oppose General Noriega at the ballot box.
 
Quarrels Are Postponed
 Although the three remain determined rivals, politicians say they appear to have been sobered by the effects of their political shoving matches, which reached a peak during the selection of leaders in the National Assembly in September.
Most overt quarrels now appear to have been postponed until the country comes closer to its next presidential vote, in 1994, when the three men are expected to abandon coalition politics in vigorous competition for an electorate that has never had a clear opportunity to express its preferences among them.
But consensus within the current troika has been bought at the expense of forceful leadership, prompting a rash of public criticism and newspaper editorials with headlines like "Use Your Authority, Mr. President" and "Indecision, the Cause of Our Ills."
The dampening of high-level discord has also appeared to highlight the broader sluggishness and inefficiency of the Government bureaucracy in areas as diverse as the economy, law enforcement and criminal justice.
"There is more than anything a feeling of frustration," said Luis Martinz, a spokesman for Mr. Endara. "People are aware that there has been progress, but it often does not directly affect them, and in any case it is only a fraction of what we lost during the crisis."
 
President Is a Target
 Even committed opponents of the Endara Government are often unable to articulate specific complaints about Government policies. In a recent protest march organized by student groups and Government unions in downtown Panama City, many demonstrators interviewed were unable to name concrete changes that they wanted Mr. Endara to make.
Perhaps for the lack of a more defined target, criticism has thus gravitated to Mr. Endara himself, and to his very public life and recent marriage.
Never shy of publicity, the heavyset, 56-year-old Panamanian leader has frequently made himself the center of political events. Before the American invasion, he went on a hunger strike in a hospital bed in a downtown store window. He then repeated that tactic during delays in the arrival of American aid to Panama last spring, putting himself on display behind red ropes in a Roman Catholic cathedral.
But nothing has drawn public attention or comment like his marriage in June to the former Ana Mae Diaz, a 23-year-old student whom he met during his pre-invasion hunger strike.
Mr. Endara's supporters have denounced criticism of his new First Lady as idle gossip or, at worst, racism on the part of a Panamanian elite that is notoriously intolerant of race and class differences. Mrs. Endara has darker skin and is from a poorer social and economic background than the President.
But the furor has also been fed by Mr. Endara, who delights in showing off his new wife, and acknowledges her from the podium at public events with special, often saccharine greetings.
"It's one of those unexpected factors in politics," said a foreign friend who attended the couple's lavish wedding, "He is in love and he wants the world to know it."
 
Economy Regains Some Ground
 Government analysts, private sector economists and diplomats agree that the Panamanian economy, which shrank by roughly 20 percent in the last two years of the Noriega Government, will have regained roughly a third of that loss, or about 7 percent of total activity, by the end of this year.
But that resurgence has resulted less from Government actions than from a rapid re-expansion of the private business sector, particularly banking. The return of up to $2 billion in foreign deposits has revived local lending, permitting a rapid recovery of larger businesses and industries that had been paralyzed by the absence of credit.
One of the most conspicuous, and politically important, beneficiaries of looser credit has been Panama's construction industry, which has suddenly sprung to life in the capital and across the country, reactivating dozens of major construction sites that had been left in weed-covered limbo by the economic crisis.
The increased construction activity, economists say, has been a major element in reducing unemployment, which soared to as much as 50 percent nationwide in the initial weeks after the crisis.
"When you revive the banks themselves, you employ a few bean counters," an American official said. "But construction gives jobs to a lot of blue-collar types who do not have many other alternatives for employment. It has affected a lot of families."
 
Worries Over Street Crime
 The relative growth of employment has helped stave off what had begun to loom as an imminent political and social crisis for the Endara Government. Government and American Embassy officials place the nationwide unemployment figure at 17 to 20 percent, with higher levels in urban areas like Panama City and Colon, on the Atlantic coast. Private-sector economists and officials of the Panama Chamber of Commerce put the rate at roughly 25 percent nationwide.
But the large number of Panamanians who are still out of work has contributed to what Panamanians and foreign officials say is a deepening concern about street crime. And it has greatly inhibited Mr. Endara's ability to restructure or modernize the country's bloated Government bureaucracy.
In addition to growing numbers of robberies and burglaries in urban areas, local authorities say, the level of drug trafficking through Panama's remote countryside and rugged coastlines has remained high or even grown since the invasion, both as a result of poor Government surveillance and high unemployment.
American efforts to gain greater access to Panama's secretive banking trade have also encountered stiff resistance from the private business sector, dividing Mr. Endara's Government against itself in a sharp debate over the tradeoffs among sovereignty, economic growth and law enforcement.
 
Government Payroll Reduced
 Since taking office, Government officials say, Mr. Endara has reduced the Government payroll by a total of 6 percent, and that figure is expected to reach 10 percent by year's end.
But strong public sector unions, which were used by General Noriega to form the generously paid backbone of his civilian support, have begun organizing to protect their salaries and perquisites. They recently helped to stage the largest street demonstration yet held against the Endara Government.
"This is the price of democracy," a Government official said. "And we're learning we have to pay it like everyone else."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Guillermo Endara, who is facing political and economic frustrations as his Government tries to rebuild Panama. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ARMED FORCES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (85%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TRENDS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); 

PERSON: UHLIG, MARK A; ENDARA, GUILLERMO (PRES); FORD, GUILLERMO; ARIAS CALDERON, RICARDO; NORIEGA, MANUEL (GEN)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



85 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Review/ Theater;
Dark Visions of America In a Modern Depression

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW

 BODY:
In Richard Caliban's "Famine Plays," the center of the country cannot hold. America's heartland has become a disaster area. Facing unemployment and poverty, people move from street to highway, looking for a resting zone. Some grasp a livelihood in crime. No one has enough to eat, and there is no solace on the horizon. The once-sedentary become eternal nomads, as the Okies did in the 1930's.
As written and directed by Mr. Caliban, "Famine Plays," at the Triplex Theater, is an ambitious attempt at creating a "Grapes of Wrath" for modern, depressed times. The period is undated, but it seems more like the near future than anything futuristic. Each of the images in the collage is evocative, and at the same time each is overextended. The play runs more than two and a half hours, and half the length would have been an improvement. 
 As Mr. Caliban has shown in his previous work, he is a venturesome playwright and director, but "Famine Plays" is marred by self-indulgence. It needs editing, which was not the case last season with his "Rodents and Radios." Dealing with a related theme, the disorientation of young people living on the edge of life, that play had an exactitude that had one looking forward to each of the interlocking episodes.
The similarly structured "Famine Plays" is an earlier work, first presented several years ago at the Cucaracha Theater and brought back for a return engagement in the company's new downtown home. Having seen the later play first, as well as Mr. Caliban's staging of Mac Wellman's "Crowbar," one knows the breadth of his talent, varyingly in evidence in the current production.
On a broad, open stage, slashed by a crossroad of light, the characters tramp their way into oblivion. A young mother leaves her family to look for work, and a street urchin treats her as an adoptive parent. The son of a suicide turns mugger. A married couple pack remnants of a once-stable life; they become the equivalent of a walking tag sale.
In the background as counterpoint are pictures of artworks by everyone from Andrew Wyeth to Edvard Munch, and striding through the play is a choral figure acting as the specter of Norman Rockwell. His presence reminds us that before famine, America's image of itself was a Saturday Evening Post cover of a bountiful Thanksgiving dinner.
The narrative is most enveloping when it is least pretentious, especially during moments of eccentric humor. Two dirt-encrusted wanderers become partners in crime. One, apparently an immigrant, carries a cudgel, with which he beats his victims. He also strikes them with a verbal curse of "Walt Whitman! Walt Whitman!" -- words that somehow, irrationally, force them into submission.
Wandering through the evening is a buffoon, who comments on the action with pronouncements like "God is an omnipotent waiter." He and others are accompanied by cultural detritus from a former existence; carless travelers remember a verse of "See the U.S.A. in Your Chevrolet."
The show, labeled a "downtown opera," is at least partly a musical, with a score written and played by John Hoge. Moving from neo-liturgical to recitative, the songs help to capture the vagrancy of the open road.
The fact that a number of the actors appeared in contrasting roles in "Rodents and Radios" certifies their range. Lauren Hamilton, poignant as that scruffy urchin, previously played the opposite, a self-styled visionary. Mollie O'Mara, Vivian Lanko, Glen Santiago and Lia Chang also appear to advantage, and Steven Bland adds an affable touch of tomfoolery. The actors have the makings of an ensemble.
As the characters crisscross the stage, they become routeless. None has a sense of destination, and, in an odd, ironic note, neither does the play. It wanders prodigally on Mr. Caliban's endless road, moves past several possible exits and never quite arrives at a conclusion.
 
FAMINE PLAYS
 
Written and directed by Richard Caliban; music by John Hoge; lighting by Brian Aldous; costumes by Mary Myers; projections by Tony Jacobs; sound by John Huntington; stage manager, J. Tori Evand; assistant director, Daniel Tharau; production manager, Janet Paparazzo. Presented by Under One Roof and Cucaracha. At the Triplex Theater, 199 Chambers Street, between Greenwich and West Streets.
 
WITH: Steven Bland, Lia Chang, Mark Dillahunt, Corinne Edgerly, Lauren Hamilton, Vivian Lanko, Mollie O'Mara, Brennan Murphy, Hugh Palmer, Glen Santiago, David Simonds and George Tynan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FAMINE PLAYS (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FAMINE (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); WRITERS (71%); SUICIDE (70%); THANKSGIVING (66%); MARRIAGE (62%); ADOPTION (61%); 

PERSON: CALIBAN, RICHARD; GUSSOW, MEL SIR GEORGE YOUNG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



86 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: New York Fears Exodus of Jobs On Wall Street

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEVINE

 BODY:
Just when New York can least afford to lose them, several major financial institutions are considering leaving the city and taking thousands of jobs with them.
The biggest and most immediate concern to New York is the possible departure of the five commodities exchanges, where options and futures for items like gold, platinum, aluminum, oil, coffee, cocoa, sugar, orange juice and currencies are traded in a frenzied choreography of capitalism in the World Trade Center complex. They are the hub of an industry that annually generates $1.3 billion a year in goods, services and salaries. 
 City and state officials, in a joint proposal dated Oct. 1, initially offered the exchanges a $50 million grant to help build a new headquarters on what they called "the largest and best located parcel of vacant land in lower Manhattan," along with tax breaks, rent subsidies and low-cost energy that would save the exchanges another $50 million. The 20-year deal would bring the average occupancy costs, including rent and utilities, for the first five years to just under $30 million a year.
 
Just Across River
 But New York City's adversaries in prior corporate tugs of war, Jersey City and the State of New Jersey, are urging the exchanges to move to a site at the Harborside Financial Center, just across the Hudson River from the Trade Center and one stop from the exchanges' current location on the PATH line.
In recent days, Mayor Gerald McCann of Jersey City said, New York has more than doubled its construction grant offer. He did not disclose details of the New Jersey offer but said that he believed New York had still not been able to match the exchanges' estimated occupancy costs in Jersey City -- said to be about $20 million annually -- and that the difference would widen after the first five years as New York's tax incentives expired.
Jersey City has the advantage of starting with much lower taxes. New York officials are constrained by the fiscal problems facing the city and the state but have an advantage, too: the city's long ties with the exchanges, which were established in New York more than a century ago.
 
$300 Million in Annual Taxes
 "We're as competitive as we can be with New Jersey," said Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero, New York City's Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, adding that she was "cautiously optimistic."
The prize is enormous. The five exchanges -- the Coffee, Sugar & Cocoa Exchange Inc.; the Commodity Exchange Inc.; the New York Cotton Exchange; the New York Mercantile Exchange, and the New York Futures Exchange -- share a trading floor and employ 11,700 people, a figure expected to grow to 23,500 over this decade, and generate $300 million a year in Federal, state and city taxes.
Should the exchanges move, they could take with them many other workers who are employed in commodities departments at investment companies in the Financial District.
Unrelated to the negotiations over the exchanges, three other large financial services concerns are also considering leaving New York when their leases run out in coming years.
Prudential-Bache, which rents space in two downtown buildings under leases that expire in 1994, is studying the feasiblity of moving about 2,000 employees to Jersey City, although it has not ruled out going elsewhere or remaining in New York City.
Mr. McCann said he also has "ongoing talks" with Morgan Stanley Group, which has 4,200 employees in New York City, and Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company, which employs almost 3,500 people in the city, including those at its brokerage offices. Morgan Stanley is also said to have an interest in Fairfield County, Conn., relocation experts indicate.
 
Final Approval in December
 Representatives of the two companies acknowledged only that leases would expire in the mid-1990's. Taht gives them time to make up their minds.
Officials of the commodities exchanges, though, are expected to analyze what both New York and New Jersey call final offers this weekend. Exchange officials could make a preliminary decision as early as Tuesday, with final approval by the membership coming in December.
It is in a company's interest to appear to be ready to leave New York, even if it intends to stay, in hopes that a landlord will offer a cheaper lease and that the city and state will forgive tax payments and make financing or grants available.
The departure of the commodities exchanges or one or more major financial companies would be a blow to New York's struggling economy, which shed more than 30,000 jobs over the summer. It would also damage the city's standing as a center for finance and weaken its argument that the advantage of conducting business "face to face" with representatives of other financial companies in the city outweighs the higher costs of doing business in New York City.
 
'Can't Imagine It Going'
 The commodities exchanges are especially important because of the additional jobs that might follow them across the river. Under pressure to expand, and with ambitions to surpass Chicago for supremacy in trading, they had negotiated a deal with the city to build a headquarters on a site atop the Manhattan entrance to the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel, but the project was shelved after the stock market's plunge.
"You're talking about an industry," said Vincent Tese, a former commodities trader who, as chairman of the State Urban Development Corporation, signed the New York offer along with Ms. Hernandez-Pinero. "We can't imagine it going."
Four exchanges now operate on a 25,000-square-foot trading area on the eighth floor of 4 World Trade Center, with the futures exchange trading in another part of the same floor.
The Jersey City site would allow the exchanges to have a trading floor as large as 100,000 square feet, said Michele de Milly, a spokeswoman for the exchanges. On the New York City parcel, which is bounded by West, Warren, Murray and Greenwich Streets, the trading floor could be only as large as 75,000 square feet.
The negotiations with the commodities exchanges and the rumblings from other financial services companies bring to mind the corporate exodus that New York City has already endured. In the last few years corporate departures slowed but did not cease, as the city lost Mobil, Exxon, J. C. Penney. By granting packages of incentives, it kept the National Broadcasting Company and Chase Manhattan Bank, among others, but lost a contingent of Merrill Lynch employees to Jersey City.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Commodities exchange floor at the World Trade Center, where options and futures for items like gold, platinum, oil, coffee and sugar are traded. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ICE FUTURES US (50%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (50%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (59%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (59%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (59%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARBORSIDE FINANCIAL CENTER (JERSEY CITY); PRUDENTIAL-BACHE SECURITIES INC; MORGAN STANLEY GROUP INC; SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC; COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE, NY; COMMODITY EXCHANGE INC; COTTON EXCHANGE, NY; MERCANTILE EXCHANGE, NEW YORK; FUTURES EXCHANGE, NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; JERSEY CITY (NJ); NEW JERSEY; MANHATTAN (NYC)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; TAX CREDITS; TAXATION; COMMODITIES; FUTURES TRADING; RENTING AND LEASING COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); FUTURES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); FIBER MARKETS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ORANGE JUICE MARKETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COFFEE (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); TRENDS (68%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, RICHARD; MCCANN, GERALD (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



87 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Government by Cabal -- Again

 BODY:
Whatever anyone thinks of the new deficit-reduction package, the process that produced the 1991 budget was a frightening display of government-in-secret. Members who battled and bargained into the wee hours are only now discovering the full content of what they approved. There is a better way, called telling it like it is.
The problem began with the President's January budget message. Like his predecessors, President Bush slipped easily into telling it like it isn't, submitting estimates that were simply not credible. His awesome miscalculations for fiscal 1991 pretended to shrink the deficit to $64 billion without new taxes, but now he's accepted new taxes to help cope with a deficit of $250 billion-plus. 
 Congress has been a willing accomplice in the deception. Since enacting the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law in 1985, members have resorted to trickery and subterfuge to hide their failure to meet its deficit reduction targets. But the law was doomed from the start; it set arbitrary targets further into the future than any reasonable forecast could reach. Hopelessly off target for 1991 and beyond, Congress has now substituted a procedure that sets supposedly inviolable caps on future spending.
Like the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law, the new device was hatched at the last minute without public discussion -- indeed, without even enough explanation to let members cast an informed vote. The architect was Robert Byrd, the crafty chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, who wanted, and got, more leeway for his committee to expand or compress spending bills within its jurisdiction.
But Mr. Byrd's mischief was only the final act in a serial of secret negotiations by a handful of Administration officials and Congressional leaders. After three months of getting nowhere, they closeted themselves at Andrews Air Force Base, but their "summit" deal was rejected by House members who hadn't been consulted and weren't buying.
None of this conniving would have occurred were it not for the Reagan Administration's "voodoo economics" -- George Bush's phrase -- promising a decade ago to balance the budget with tax cuts and more billions for defense. The promise was preposterous on its face, but Congress didn't blink an eye, happily voting to spend more and tax less.
Now comes the hard part -- control and cutbacks, so painful and controversial that neither the Administration nor Congress dares admit what's really going on.
The new tax increases and spending caps are shrouded in complicated formulas. The new process, based on spending limits, could be more constructive than the old one, which focused on deficits. But if recent history is any guide, Congress and the Administration will devise new tricks to beat the system. In any event, the effect won't be known for years, and meanwhile the Government is stuck with procedures imposed yet again by cabal.
A responsible Government would let the public know what it's up to. A responsible President would start with a realistic budget for 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS ACT

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DEFICIT REDUCTION ACT; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); TAX RELIEF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); AIR FORCES (62%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ROBERT BYRD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1990



88 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 1; Style Desk; CODNSUMER'S WORLD

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Questions Are Intensifying About Insurance Safety Net

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
The faltering economy is casting a shadow over virtually all aspects of American life, and insurance is no exception. Many insurance companies have invested heavily in real estate or junk bonds whose market value has declined sharply, making them more vulnerable to insolvency.
The safety net for insurers in trouble has long been each state's insurance guaranty fund, a mechanism through which solvent insurance companies absorb the losses of insolvent insurers through assessments.. But now questions are being raised by consumer groups and members of Congress about the vulnerability of these funds, also known as guarantee associations. 
 The reason for this heightened interest in guaranty funds is the rash of savings and loan and bank failures, despite Federal deposit insurance. Although savings and loan associations and insurance companies are two different types of businesses, there are enough parallels between them to raise doubts about the adequacy of the insurance industry's safety net. This concern is heightened by the patchwork nature of state insurance regulations.
 
'A Domino Effect'
 William Westoff, a senior vice president of IDS Financial Services, a Minneapolis financial planning company that issued a study on the insurance industry's solvency earlier this year, said: "If problems occur to a very large company, the assessment could be quite onerous. That could create a domino effect and cause another company to fail."
The House Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee said in a report this year, "The insurance industry and the nation could face a solvency crisis rivaling the present savings and loan situation." The report, which studied the failures in 1989 and 1990 of such national companies as the Mission Insurance Company, the Integrity Insurance Company and the Transit Casualty Company, cited "completely inadequate" reserves of those companies.
To prevent a disaster, proposals are being made to strengthen or change the guaranty-fund system. Among them: establishing national standards that would apply to all state funds, sharing information among states about financially troubled insurers and creating a separate Federal system to handle insurance companies' insolvencies.
"The guaranty funds were set up when there were very few insolvencies," said Caroline Smith DeWaal, the insurance specialist for Public Citizen's Congress Watch, a consumer advocacy group that published a report on insurers' financial solvency last month. "In the last eight years, the number of insolvencies has increased dramatically, and we need a Federal answer to this problem."
The existing state funds and the insurance industry generally scoff at the thought of abolishing the current fund system. "The system is not perfect, but there really hasn't been a displayed incapacity to deal with the problem," said Dale Stephenson, the president of the National Conference of Insurance Guaranty Funds, the umbrella group for the state funds that cover property and casualty companies.
The first of the guaranty funds were created in the 1940's to cover particular insurance, like workers' compensation or automobile insurance. Today, there are two broad categories of funds, usually run by a board of directors chosen or approved by the state insurance commissioner: property and casualty funds, which exist in all 50 states, and life and health funds, which exist in 47. The exceptions are Colorado, Louisiana and New Jersey, plus the District of Columbia.
Model laws on insurance guaranty funds prepared by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners have been adopted by many states. Every state law sets limits on the amounts the funds can pay to any individual, so that if a claim exceeds the limit, it is not covered. Claims are filed directly with the fund.
All of the funds, other than New York's property and casualty fund, function like this: insurers are assessed to meet necessary obligations after insolvencies occur, according to a formula based on their total premiums. However by law, the New York Property and Casualty Security Fund is required to have $150 million in reserves. If the assets of the fund go below that level, companies selling this kind of insurance are assessed.
"The object of the game is not to use the security fund," said Kevin Foley, the Deputy Superintendent of the New York State Insurance Department. "Insurance companies are conservatively invested, and their portfolios are closely monitored."
 
Monitoring Portfolios
 But other states may not be as effective in monitoring companies' portfolios, and failures of insurance companies have recently been high. Insolvencies of life and health insurers totaled 43 last year, with 15 more occuring through August 1990. Insolvencies of property and casualty insurers totaled 23 in 1989, with 11 more recorded through the end of August.
As the insurance industry sees it, there is no reason for alarm. "In the very unlikely event that a major insurer became insolvent, the shortfall would not be of such a measure to exceed the guaranty system's capacity to handle it," said Eden Sarfaty, the president of the National Association of Life and Health Guaranty Associations.
But some consumer advocates question the very nature of the guaranty funds. "The system is designed to pass off costs" to taxpayers or policyholders, said Marty Leary of the Southern Finance Project, a nonprofit research center in Durham, N.C., referring to the additional taxes or premiums that often follow guaranty-fund assessments. "Reform should take place whereby costs rest on the capital of the industry."
 
ON AVOIDING THE WORST

Unless your insurance company becomes insolvent, you will probably not have any dealings with a state insurance guaranty fund. But here are some of the precautions that you can take to reduce the possibility of ever being faced with such a situation:
*When buying an insurance policy, make sure that the company's claims-paying ability has the highest rating of A-plus from A. M. Best , the insurance-rating agency. Ask the insurance company about its rating or consult Best's Insurance Reports at your local library.
*Check with your state's insurance department for information about the financial health of an insurer. Departments usually have a division that answers consumer telephone calls or mail.
*If you purchase a policy through an independent agent, ask how an insurance company's service compares with that of other companies. Among the points to consider: the insurer's promptness and thoroughness in handling claims, its accuracy in changing a policy or adding an endorsement and its willingness to communicate with policyholders.

GRAPHIC: Chart: number of insolvencies and the Guaranty Fund assessments for porperty and casualty and life and health, 1980-89 (Sources: National Conference of Insurance Guaranty Funds and National Organization of Life and Health Guaranty Associations.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: IDS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available INSURANCE (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INSURANCE LAW (73%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1991



89 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1635 words

HEADLINE: Never Has So Few Owned So Much

BYLINE: By Robert Blake; Lord Blake, a former Provost of Queens College, Oxford, is the author of "Disraeli" and "The Decline of Power, 1915-1964."

 BODY:
THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE BRITISH ARISTOCRACY
By David Cannadine.
Illustrated. 813 pp. New Haven:
Yale University Press. $35. 
 THIS is a long, learned and highly readable account of a change in British social history that has never been so fully charted before. David Cannadine, a British expatriate who is a professor of history at Columbia University, has spent 10 years of research in tracing the changing fortunes of the landed aristocracy of Britain during the century between 1880 and 1980. He is not the first historian to deal with the subject. The pioneer work on which he has freely drawn with full acknowledgments is F. M. L. Thompson's "English Landed Society in the Nineteenth Century" (1963). But, as Mr. Thompson said of his own book, it "is, like all history, only more so, an interim report." Mr. Cannadine may not have given us a final report -- perhaps there never can be such a thing -- but he has written a brilliant, multifaceted chronicle of economic and social change that is unlikely to be superseded for many years to come. It is a picturesque drama -- half-tragic, half-comic -- peopled by a vast variety of characters, some of them able, honorable and public-minded like the 3d Marquess of Salisbury, others incompetent, disreputable and selfish like the 16th Marquess of Winchester, who became the front for the fraudulent company promoter Clarence Hatry.
In 1880 the 29 greatest British landowners possessed enormous estates. They all had titles; 12 of them were dukes. The smallest holding in acres -- 19,749 -- was that of the Duke of Westminster, but since a sizable chunk of it was in London he had the biggest income of all -- 290,000 -- just beating the Duke of Buccleuch, who had 460,108 acres, much of them in Scotland, and the Duke of Bedford, another London landowner, who had 86,335 acres all told. Fourteen of these landowners owned more than 100,000 acres each. The Duke of Sutherland, whose holdings were largely in the Scottish Highlands, had well over a million.
By 1976, the latest date for which figures are available (and they are limited to England and Wales), the picture had drastically changed. Although there were a few maverick cases of an actual increase, more typical were the Duke of Devonshire, down from 133,000 acres to 56,000, and the Duke of Norfolk, from 40,000 to 25,000. Many falls were far greater. Of course, this did not mean that some of the surviving grandees were other than extremely rich. The postwar boom in agricultural land and the soaring price of objets d'art have recouped the fortunes of many landowners who can now get by with far fewer acres. When the 10th Duke of Devonshire died in 1952, four months before the date when his estate would have been exempt from 2.5 million in death duties, that indefatigable diarist and gossip Chips Channon wrote: "Is this the end of Chatsworth?" Those who were guests at the two days of colossal splendor to celebrate the 21st birthday of the grandson and heir in July of this year know that it was certainly not the end -- anyway not yet.
But, although the Duke of Devonshire is still one of the richest men in England and although there is still great wealth among the aristocracy, Mr. Cannadine's basic theme is correct. The landed world is not what it was. There are still supposed to be some 2,000 landed estates in Britain, but whereas they covered over half the land in 1880, they covered at most a quarter, perhaps a lot less, in 1980. And those who have gone by the board are not so much the seriously rich, though some of them have, but the country squirearchy, the men of 1,000 to 10,000 acres who propped the whole system up, constituted the governing class in the counties, went to Parliament as perennial backbenchers, lived on their estates, hunted and held High Tory views. They really have largely vanished.
The basic causes of the decline of the landed aristocracy are clear enough: the collapse of agriculture and the march of democracy. The first was the more important. It was simply the result of the end of the American Civil War, the opening up of the American West to farming on a larger and more profitable scale than anything in Europe, together with greatly improved transportation. These developments knocked the bottom out of the market. Its revival in the 1950's after 70 years of decline was too late for the squire archy and much of the aristocracy, except for the substantial element that owned mines, minerals and urban property.
This change affected the Continental aristocracy just as badly, and it is one of the many virtues of "The Decline and Fall of the British Aristocracy" that Mr. Cannadine puts the whole process in its European context. In fact the British aristocrats, being far richer than their Continental counterparts, were less badly placed to survive than the French, German and Italian nobility with their endless subdivision of estates and titles. Only the Magyar grandees in Hungary did better -- till 1945. Most successful of all were the Spanish, thanks to Franco. The unique British system of entail and primogeniture was not always popular with younger sons surveying the wealth of their eldest brothers. Hence the younger sons' grace: "For what we ought to have received, may the Lord make them truly thankful." But the system did preserve estates as long as there were estates to preserve.
The other cause of decline was the growth of democracy. This, too, was a European phenomenon. It was bound to be inimical to the concept of a ruling privileged elite. As early as the 1850's Toqueville, the shrewdest observer of the world political scene, predicted that democracy would destroy aristocracy everywhere. He did not mean individuals but the principle of rule by landed grandees. And this is what has happened. Whether one dates the change in Britain from the enlargement of the franchise in the Reform Act of 1867, F. M. L. Thompson's choice, or the further extension of it in the Reform Act of 1885, preferred by Mr. Cannadine, a great decline in aristocratic power has undoubtedly occurred.
IN 1880 the House of Lords was overwhelmingly landed and hereditary; it had virtually coequal powers with the Commons, most of the members of which were sons or collaterals of the Lords; and it dominated the political scene. A century later it had become in essence a senate of lifetime members, though the largely absentee hereditary peers were still a majority. It is a useful revising chamber but little more. In the Commons the old "landed interest" is negligible now. There has never been a complete sweep of the aristocracy as in parts of Europe but a merger with an upper middle class of professionals, financiers and businessmen -- a new Establishment.
In the face of these facts, it is hard to see why a few peers who have been given, or told about, proof copies of this book seem to be so cross. There are errors. To categorize landowners like Lords Pembroke and Northesk by their hobbies as film producer and silversmith, respectively, is absurd. It is a solecism to spell Eaton Hall, the Duke of Westminster's seat, like the college, and Lady Caroline Gilmour's ducal connection, as any reference book shows, is with Buccleuch, not Portland.
These are venial errors. They do not warrant the reported words of Lord St. John of Fawsley (Norman St. John Stevas, the former Conservative member of the House of Commons): "total rubbish." The book is not an attack on the aristocracy. The author recognizes how much of it has still survived. He merely chronicles in neutral terms a major change of power over the last century and a lesser change of wealth. The complainers ought to read the book. It will take them quite a time, but they may then have a different view of a remarkable achievement.

 
 
TARNISH ON THE ESCUTCHEON
 When seeking for a partner worthy of the delectable Zuleika Dobson, Max Beerbohm created the Duke of Dorset, an aristocratic paragon, endowed with Olympian wealth, rank, and intellect. His inherited possessions were stupendous, his riches were incalculable, his British titles were innumerable, and he was in addition a prince of the Holy Roman Empire and a duke in the peerage of France. As an Oxford undergraduate he took a First in Mods. and carried off a clutch of university prizes, he was awarded the Garter by the government in instant recognition of a dazzling speech he delivered impromptu in the House of Lords, and he excelled at any human activity to which he turned his hand or his head. Yet for all his youth, his great position, his brilliant attainments, and the splendid prospects that lay before him, the Duke of Dorset was a fallen idol, who drowned himself in a gesture at once utterly magnificent yet totally futile. And, appropriately enough, the novel that related his fictional and fanciful plunge into the River Cherwell was first published in 1911, the very year that, in reality, witnessed the most successful assault in recent history on the House of Lords -- and thus on the hereditary, titled, landowning classes of the British Isles. . . .
The Duke of Dorset may be taken as a larger-than-life exemplar of . . . the notables and nobles of the British Isles. . . . As late as the 1870s, these patricians were still the most wealthy, the most powerful, and the most glamorous people in the country, corporately -- and understandably -- conscious of themselves as God's elect. But during the hundred years that followed, their wealth withered, their power faded, their glamour tarnished, and their collective sense of identity and purpose gradually but inexorably weakened. . . . How, when, and why did this pride of lions decay into a fable of unicorns?
 
From "The Decline and Fall of the British Aristocracy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DECLINE AND FALL OF THE BRITISH ARISTOCRACY, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); SCOTLAND (72%); WALES (58%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HISTORY (91%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); 

PERSON: BLAKE, ROBERT; CANNADINE, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



90 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 15; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Poker and Nothingness

BYLINE: By Madison Smartt Bell; Madison Smartt Bell's novels include "The Year of Silence," "Soldier's Joy" and the forthcoming "Doctor Sleep."

 BODY:

THE MUSIC OF CHANCE
>By Paul Auster.
217 pp. New York:
Viking. $18.95. 
 THERE may be some doubt as to whether Paul Auster really means to be a novelist at all. Like Julian Barnes, though with infinitely greater success, he has used the form of the novel as a shell for intellectual speculation of one kind or another. His most brilliant effects have been achieved by his reworkings of the mystery in "The New York Trilogy," where the formalism of the genre also does much to specify the plot. Mr. Auster's latest novel, "The Music of Chance," seems however to have taken a picaresque model, whose form is less distinctly defined.
Jim Nashe, a Boston fireman, is catapulted into existential uncertainty by a couple of inadvertencies: his desertion by his wife, Therese, and the death of his estranged father, who leaves him a surprisingly sizable legacy. He sells all his possessions, parks his daughter, Juliette, with his sister's family in Minnesota, stocks his Saab with classical cassettes and takes to the road:
"Speed was of the essence, the joy of sitting in the car and hurtling himself forward through space. That became a good beyond all others, a hunger to be fed at any price. . . . As long as he was driving, he carried no burdens, was unencumbered by even the slightest particle of his former life. That is not to say that memories did not rise up in him, but they no longer seemed to bring any of the old anguish. Perhaps the music had something to do with that, the endless tapes of Bach and Mozart and Verdi that he listened to while sitting behind the wheel, as if the sounds were somehow emanating from him and drenching the landscape, turning the visible world into a reflection of his own thoughts. After three or four months, he had only to enter the car to feel that he was coming loose from his body, that once he put his foot down on the gas and started driving, the music would carry him into a realm of weightlessness."
All Nashe wants is to preserve this state of orbital nullity, which is inherently unstable and begins to decay as his money decreases. With $14,000 left in the stash in the Saab's glove compartment, he meets Jack Pozzi, a young and feckless down-on-his-luck gambler, who presents himself as "an opportunity in the shape of a human being, a card-playing specter whose one purpose in the world was to help Nashe win back his freedom." Nashe agrees to back Pozzi in a poker game against Bill Flower and Willie Stone, a couple of fabulously wealthy lottery winners, supposed to be easy marks.
This pair occasions the sort of tour de force of eccentricity and obsessionalism at which Mr. Auster most excels. During a tour of their baroque mansion in rural Pennsylvania, the fat and garrulous Flower, a former accountant, expatiates at length on the proposition that "numbers have souls" (so that what seems to be chance may not be at all), while the compact and monosyllabic Stone merely indicates the miniaturized City of the World that he is building, including replicas of his own house and minuscule figures of himself and his friend, and describes his plan to build a second model within the model, so creating an infinite recession.
There's something obscurely offensive to Nashe about "such extravagant smallness," and while the game is in progress he sneaks back and steals the miniatures of Flower and Stone. By chance or in consequence, Pozzi's luck fails; Nashe stakes the Saab on him and loses, then crashes $10,000 into debt on a single cut of the cards. Flower and Stone, whose model city includes images of both comical roguery and dire punishment, are not amiable about the situation. Nashe and Pozzi find themselves compelled to remain on the estate, hand-building a stone wall of Egyptian magnitude, working for an hourly rate until the debt is repaid.
The rest of the story revolves around Nashe's gradual recognition that by following the appealing rhythms of chance he has landed in a rigidly determined system: "Sometimes, powerless to stop himself, he even went so far as to imagine that he was already living inside the model. Flower and Stone would look down on him then, and he would suddenly be able to see himself through their eyes -- as if he were no larger than a thumb, a little gray mouse darting back and forth in his cage." Within this sinister predicament, Nashe is eventually able to regain the zero state he most desires, "for even the smallest zero was a great hole of nothingness, a circle large enough to contain the world."
Mr. Auster has succeeded admirably in dressing up this very abstract situation. But, diverging from the tactics of his earlier work, he has also tried to mix the unreality of Nashe, Flower and Stone with a more realistic portrayal of other characters, and here the results are less fortunate. Nashe's sometime girlfriend Fiona, a hooker called Tiffany and especially Pozzi are not rendered well enough to convince. Pozzi's monologues are shakily, inconsistently written and, unfortunately, too much hangs on his role as a credible and engaging picaro, for Nashe comes to see him as a sort of alter ego: "Once a man begins to recognize himself in another, he can no longer look on him as a stranger." So the failure of this characterization is a serious flaw.
The haphazard wandering of the plot, random as the path of Nashe's Saab, may be less problematic, since it can be justified by the title and subject, though the reader may miss the elegant formal recursions of "The New York Trilogy." Still, its rambling path does lead the book to a convincing statement of Mr. Auster's insistent theme that Nashe's identity, or anyone's, is not an innate quality or even a fixed one, but is instead a product of surrounding circumstance. And so if "The Music of Chance" is not Paul Auster's best novel, it is still a very good one.

 
 
HEDGING HIS BETS

At ten thirty, he switched off the television and climbed into bed with a paperback copy of Rousseau's Confessions. . . . Just before he fell asleep, he came to the passage in which the author is standing in a forest and throwing stones at trees. If I hit that tree with this stone, Rousseau says to himself, then all will go well with my life from now on. He throws the stone and misses. That one didn't count, he says, and so he picks up another stone and moves several yards closer to the tree. He misses again. . . . That was just the final warm-up toss, he says, it's the next one that really counts. But just to make sure, he walks right up to the tree this time, positioning himself directly in front of the target. He is no more than a foot away from it by now, close enough to touch it with his hand. Then he lobs the stone squarely against the trunk. Success, he says to himself, I've done it. From this moment on, life will be better for me than ever before.
Nashe found the passage amusing, but at the same time he was too embarrassed by it to want to laugh. There was something terrible about such candor, finally, and he wondered where Rousseau had found the courage to reveal such a thing about himself, to admit to such naked self-deception. Nashe turned off the lamp, closed his eyes. . . . At some point during the night, he dreamt of a forest in which the wind passed through the trees with the sound of shuffling cards.
 
From "The Music of Chance."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MUSIC OF CHANCE, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: SAABB (STO) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: SAAB AB (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (94%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); WRITERS (90%); POKER (84%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); CARD GAMES (63%); LOTTERIES (50%); 

PERSON: BELL, MADISON SMARTT; AUSTER, PAUL JULIAN PATRICK BARNES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



91 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 30; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: CRIME

BYLINE: By Marilyn Stasio

 BODY:
"I know every bayou and channel from Sabine Pass over to Barataria," boasts Dave Robicheaux, the Cajun detective who works this swampy Louisiana territory in James Lee Burke's lushly descriptive crime novels. In A MORNING FOR FLAMINGOS (Little, Brown, $18.95), the tough but principled hero loses heart (as well as face) when two convicts escape his charge on their way to the penitentiary for execution, forcing him to plead with one of them for his life. Partly in penance and partly for vengeance, Dave leaves his rural home on Bayou Teche to set up a sting operation for the Feds in New Orleans.
Once undercover in the Big Easy, Dave maneuvers himself into the confidence of his sting target, a Mafia drug lord who is haunted by his war experiences in Vietnam and sees a kindred sufferer in Dave. As their odd friendship grows, so does the menace of one of the footloose convicts, a certifiable crazy who has landed a mob contract on the Mafioso's life. Dave wrestles with his conflicting loyalties to several people who figure in this complicated plot and then does the decent thing, in a throat-burning finale that scorches the moss-hung landscape from New Iberia to the Pearl River basin. 
 "This started out as a story about my own fear," muses Dave, who happily resists the impulse to indulge his psychic aches and pains to the numbing depths he did in three earlier books. "Instead," he says, "it became a story of others." And in the process, we must add, Mr. Burke also discovered -- in these rich characters, in the idiosyncratic freshness of their language and in the brazen originality of the evil they introduce to Acadia -- something worth writing about beyond his hero and the picturesque but stagnant scenery.
 If you think of the act of writing as a game of chicken between the author and his talent, then Derek Raymond is one author who achieves his ecstasy by sailing off cliffs.
Everything about I WAS DORA SUAREZ (Available Press/Ballantine, Paper, $7.95) shrieks of the joy and pain of going too far. No. 4 in the English writer's procedural series about an unnamed detective's garbage-detail job in London's Bureau of Unexplained Deaths, this hair-raising narrative opens in the midst of a double murder whose graphic horrors would be unreadable were it not for the author's unflinching insights into the killer's madness -- glimpsed through "eyes that had perished violently centuries ago" -- and for the appalling beauty of the prose. Just as there are no limits to the vileness of the crimes uncovered during the police investigation, which leads to a nightclub that traffics in loathsome debaucheries, so, too, there is no bottom to the detective's rage and anguish.
"Do you know I cry in my sleep?" demands this mournful witness to the inhumanity he sees throughout society. "My tears were not for me," he makes clear, "they were for the rightful fury of the people." Truth to tell, the life of Dora Suarez would move anyone to tears. "I was constructed to have a nature that could neither bend nor speak, nor be of a kind to ask for help," the murdered woman wrote in her journal. "I wanted to keep my sense of my own dignity, but it is the most difficult thing of all to keep when you are poor."
Touched by her story, the detective kisses the dead woman's hair and makes the only promise he can make to her and to all other violated human beings: retribution and respect. "We'll get our dignity back," he swears to the victims; "whether alive or dead, we shall all be as we used to be." No less obsessive than the maniacal killer he is stalking, the detective employs methods that are brutal and probably illegal. But there is something angelic about his fierce sense of justice.
Nature asserts a harsh presence in Archer Mayor's BORDERLINES (Putnam, $19.95), whose violent events occur during that dead-eyed non season in New England after the leaves fall and before the snow flies. "T'Aint Season," they call it in the sparsely populated and economically depressed area of Vermont known as the Northeast Kingdom. Hunting season is another name for it. Either way, it's the killing season, and Mr. Mayor's bracing police procedural captures the bone-cold chill in the air.
Joe Gunther, the veteran Brattleboro police officer first encountered in "Open Season," is on temporary assignment up north when five members of a religious cult that has taken over his hometown are killed in an arson fire. As part of the state police team investigating the homicides, Gunther slowly becomes sensitized to the changes in his old friends, observing in their hardened faces the deeper social disintegration of "this high, cold country [where] the law had less to do with rules, and more with personal honor."
Mr. Mayor writes invigorating outdoor action scenes, and his authoritative handling of forensic procedures has us marveling at his thorough knowledge of knife wounds and body burns. The formal beauty of this ugly detail is matched in tone by the crisp dialogue and tense confrontations he writes for characters who don't care to waste words or squander emotions. For a writer so new at this game, Mr. Mayor has astonishing control of his craft.
 Sharon McCone, the sensible and rational legal investigator in Marcia Muller's journeyman mysteries, bristles whenever one of her colleagues at the All Souls Legal Cooperative calls her sensible and rational. In TROPHIES AND DEAD THINGS (Mysterious Press/Warner, $16.95), the San Francisco operative prefers to describe herself as a realist, while admitting that she is "the white sheep in a family of rebels" and still envious of those who dare to challenge authority. That wistful admiration for the spirit of rebellion, along with her own sturdy reliability, makes Sharon the perfect detective for this mystery about a 1960's cell of radical Berkeley students whose past comes back to haunt -- and in some cases to kill -- certain remnants of their number.
The investigation opens when the victim of a sniper's bullet leaves a will that disinherits his children and grants large legacies to four nobodies. After some very smart legwork that takes Sharon into the past and present lives of these secretive beneficiaries, the detective finally pries out information that not only solves the case but also strips away "what little remained of the mythic charm of the 1960s."
Like her heroine, Ms. Muller works in a style more admirable for its clarity and efficiency than for boldness or brilliance. Her dense plots are models of construction, and if her characters lack spark, they are observed in a manner both sensible and rational.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MORNING FOR FLAMINGOS, A (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (56%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); RIVERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); MURDER (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); 

PERSON: STASIO, MARILYN; BURKE, JAMES LEE JAMES LEE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



92 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Part A; Page 27; Column 1; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: Indian Rootlessness

BYLINE: By Dirk Johnson

 BODY:
IN THE MANNER of her ancestors, the girl knelt in the midst of a circle of her peers, placed a bit of ceremonial tobacco in a basket and gave thanks for the goodness of the Creator. Each Monday at the Hannahville Indian Reservation School in Michigan, the children participate in this ancient ritual, in which they are purified by the smoke from a burning stalk of braided sweetgrass.
"Megweech," says each child, echoing the Ojibwa word for thank you.
The ceremony is part of a sacred tradition for the Chippewa tribe. But it also represents the powerful and seemingly contradictory forces pulling at American Indian students and dividing tribes: on the one hand, the effort to instill an appreciation of Indian heritage so that these children's education will be more relevant; and on the other, the push to assimilate them into mainstream American culture as a guarantee of educational and thus work-force success. 
 These forces clashed most recently in New Mexico, where pueblo elders are pressuring parents to send their children to reservation schools -- while the parents, seeing local public schools as bridges to a broader American society, are deserting the reservation schools in droves.
The same divisive forces may also underlie the current dispute over the proposed reorganization of the Interior Department's Bureau of Indian Affairs. The Government wants to form three divisions, including an Indian education bureau that would receive an extra $100 million. But tribal leaders say that they would prefer being given the money outright and left free to deal with Indian education as they see fit.
For American Indians, this philosophical schism has become a physical divide; about half the Indian population lives off the reservation and half live on it. It has also created a quicksand on which Government administrators, tribal leaders, educators and parents are trying to rebuild a system of mostly inferior schools both on the reservations and in the poor urban and rural areas where Indian families often live.
 
 
Indians Called 'The Minority's Minority'
 In socioeconomic terms, Indians are perhaps the poorest minority group in the nation, "the minority's minority," as one educator, herself Indian, put it. Indeed, the Federal Education Department has appointed a 15-member "Indian Nations at Risk" task force to study the condition of education of Indians in the United States and, in a report due next year, to make practical recommendations.
"Finding solutions is going to be tough," said G. Mike Charleston, an associate professor of education at Pennsylvania State University who is on leave from the American Indian Education Policy Center to direct the task force. Professor Charleston explained, "We already know from previous research that education can be hindered by the extreme poverty and shortcomings in health, social and economic conditions faced by a major percentage of Indians."
These conditions are in turn influenced by levels of educational attainment. According to the United States Census Bureau, for example, the median income for Indian families in 1980 -- the most recent figures available -- was $13,680, compared with a national median of $19,920. On many reservations, alcoholism is rampant and the unemployed outnumber jobholders. But the Census Bureau figures also show that only 56 percent ofIndians over age 25 graduated from high school in 1980, compared with 66 percent of the total population.
There are some bright spots. On the latest Scholastic Aptitute Test for college admissions, for example, Indians registered a dramatic nine-point improvement in math skills, from 428 to 437. Verbal scores rose from 384 to 388. These compare with nationwide averages of 476 in the math portion of the exam and 424 in the verbal, each out of a possible 800.
 
 
Forced Assimilation Was Common
 This achievement is more remarkable considering the ignoble history of Indian education in the United States. Earlier this century, forced assimilation was the preferred approach, as many Indian children were taken to federally supported boarding schools where they were forbidden to speak their languages or wear traditional clothing. Henry Pratt, who ran such a school in Carlisle, Pa., was known for the motto: "Kill the Indian; save the man."
In recent years, educators have begun turning from this approach and opening reservation schools, like Hannahville, in which youngsters learn the native languages and customs. Indian figures who have played important historic roles are emphasized in lessons. Public schools, especially those with significant numbers of Indian students, are imbuing their curriculums with lessons on Native American history and contributions.
Several universities have expanded programs of cooperative education with Indian reservations. Northern Michigan University, for example, is sponsoring a program to upgrade mathematics and science studies at the Hannahville school.
"A lot of these kids have a certain amount of shame," said Steve Hirst, who is coordinating the program. "We ask them, 'Are you proud of being Indian?' And we get some negative answers." In response, the Michigan program will stress Indians' achievements in astronomy, mathematics, medicine and agriculture in an effort to boost the children's self-esteem and the relevance of the curriculum to their lives.
"Much of what we've learned about teaching theory, and are trying to apply for Native American schools, are the same methods that have proved effective for all children," said Lois Hirst, Mr. Hirst's wife and a professor of education at Northern Michigan University. "Learning in groups, for example, and applying what is learned, is effective for all children."
But some educators believe that special techniques must be fashioned in response to culturally engendered behavior that characterizes Indian children exclusively. Education experts say, for example, that when placed in non-Indian surroundings, Indian youths often exhibit a reticence or shyness that can impede effective learning.
"It's a cultural thing that involves showing respect," said Erin Kelley, a teacher at the Native American Preparatory School, which was started in 1988 by the Cushing Academy, a private prep school in Ashburnham, Mass., in hopes of providing Indian youngsters with the educational grounding needed to succeed in good secondary schools and colleges.
"When they go into a classroom," Ms. Kelley said, "they often view the teacher as an elder. And so they sit there quietly. That could inhibit learning if they don't speak up to ask questions, or participate in discussions."To help these children become more verbally assertive, teachers encourage them to speak before the class, even to shout answers. The class also sings together, as a way of promoting verbal expression. "By the end of the summer you can really see a change," Ms. Kelley said. "They'll come right up and start talking about their families, or what they've been doing."
The Cushing Academy program, which started with 50 children in 1988, served more than 300 youths last summer. A host of prestigious prep schools, including Exeter, Choate, Middlesex and others, have agreed to admit qualified students from the program, and to pay tuition and boarding costs.
Derek Begay, an Indian from Grants, N.M., is a sophomore at Cushing. Living far from home in an atmosphere that differs starkly from home, the 15-year-old has undergone an intensive learning process, on both sides of the classroom door. "A lot of these kids are so rich that their parents give out $20,000 a year for them to go to school," he said with amazement. "At home, I was used to seeing mostly Mexicans and Indians. Here I feel like one of a kind. But I feel unique, not lonely."
 
 
'My Parents Were Kind of Worried'
 Derek, who once wanted to be a lawyer but changed his mind because "there are too many of them already," recently received his midterm examination grades: A's, B's and a lone C. "My parents were kind of worried about me going away," he said. "And my mom doesn't want me to get involved with any non-Indian girls. But that's pretty hard, since there are only about four Indian girls here."
Indeed, the desire for education often exacts a price -- assimilation. For many Indians, the fear of losing the sense of identity and culture has stood in the way of leaving home for school. "It often depends on the particular tribe's sense of education," said Dana Wilson Klar, a member of the Houma Tribe and the director of American Indian Studies at Washington University in St. Louis. "The tribal elders sometimes think the people will come back 'white washed' -- no longer a real part of the group. It can be a very difficult issue to face."
Only 27.3 percent of Indian students who enter college eventually graduate, according to a recent survey of 72 colleges with significant Indian enrollment. Robert Wells, a professor of government at St. Lawrence University in Canton, N.Y., who conducted the study, contends that Indian students often encounter financial problems or homesickness because of being so far from home.
"It has been our contention," he wrote, "that a very important mission for higher education was to serve nontraditional Native American students where they work and live."
To that end, St. Lawrence worked with tribal leaders at the St. Regis Reservation in upstate New York to permit Mohawk Indians to take college courses on the reservation. And there are now 24 tribal colleges in the United States and Canada, which operate on a contract with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, although only the Navajo college in Tsaile, Ariz., and the Oglala Lakota college in Kyle, S.D., offer four-year degrees.
"One of the biggest solutions has been to take colleges directly to the reservations," said Jeffrey L. Hamley, director of the Native American Program at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. "It's really been a success story."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (54%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (54%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; INDIANS, AMERICAN NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



93 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Part A; Page 25; Column 1; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Hispanics in Despair

BYLINE: By Roberto Suro

 BODY:
WITH just two months to go before his high school graduation, Maccario Garcia had the lead role in his drama club's production of "Macbeth" and was looking forward to attending college. It should have been a happy time, but sitting in the living room of his family's small apartment in Houston's East End one afternoon in April he toyed with the idea of dropping out of school.
 
 'Crisis in Hispanic Education'
 No single factor adequately explains the causes of this problem. Language, immigration and the effects of poverty all play a role. The impact of discrimination and cynicism about the prospects for economic advancement also have an influence. But over all, dropout rates are only one symptom of what President Bush late last year proclaimed "the crisis in Hispanic education." 
 According to the Federal Department of Education, some 29 percent of Hispanic 3- and 4-year-olds were enrolled in nursery schools in 1986, compared with 39 percent of non-Hispanic white children and 38 percent of black children. In a 1988 Federal assessment, 47 percent of 9-year-old Hispanic students showed a reading proficiency rating at or above the "basic" level, compared with 68 percent for whites. And although Hispanic college attendance rates have been skyrocketing lately, in 1988 only about 12 percent of Hispanic students ages 25 and 34 had graduated, compared with 24 percent for the entire population.
The dimensions of the problem are magnified by the fact that school-age Hispanics are the fastest-growing segment of the American population. The Education Department calculates that they accounted for 10 percent of the total in 1986 and that by the year 2000 there will be some six million Hispanic students, constituting 12 percent of the total student population.
As the rest of the work force ages and as lower birthrates persist among other ethnic groups, these Hispanic children will be an essential source of rejuvenation for the work force. Some economists and business executives predict a "skills mismatch" because the most productive jobs require ever- greater skills and the pool of new workers has less and less education.This crisis has been developing for well over a decade, but in the last year, in ways large and small, it has been moving toward the top of the nation's education agenda. Maccario did his part by helping to lead a student walkout at Austin High School in Houston's predominantly Hispanic East End in September 1989. More than 1,000 students hit the streets and complained before TV cameras about the poor quality of education they were receiving. School officials eventually judged the protests justified and acceded to many of the demands, including the principal's removal.
The most significant expression of concern came from President Bush on Sept. 24, when he issued an Executive Order on "Education Excellence for Hispanic Americans," and with a stroke of the pen seemingly reversed many of the attitudes, if not the specific policies, of the Reagan Administration in this area.
The order mandated the creation of a Presidential advisory committee on Hispanic education to develop Federal efforts with an emphasis on "enhancing parental involvement; promoting early-childhood education; removing barriers to success in education and work, particularly limited proficiency in English, and helping students to achieve their potential at all educational levels." All executive departments and agencies were ordered to become involved in achieving these goals.
The President's action constituted a "180-degree turn from what has been Federal policy in recent years," said James J. Lyons, executive director of the National Association for Bilingual Education, a Washington-based research and advocacy group. "We now have thePresident on the record in a document that has the force of law calling for action to remedy the crisis in Hispanic education," Mr. Lyons said. "What remains to be seen is how this is implemented,"
The executive order might seem an innocuous document that states obvious goals without creating new rograms or providing new financing. But Hispanic groups nationwide who have so eagerly praised it say they view it in historical context.
Although bilingual education represents only one, limited aspect of the school problems facing Hispanics, in recent years it has been a major political battleground. In 1985, William J. Bennett, then Education Secretary, announced that the high Hispanic dropout rate was proof that bilingual education had failed. Thereafter, he led a fight to limit Federal financing for bilingual education. A result of the Reagan Administration's efforts was legislation that restricted overall financing, allowed greater spending on English-language programs and restricted the length of bilingual programs to three years.
 
 
 Cavazos Calls for Reassessment
 The current Education Secretary, Lauro F. Cavazos, came into office with the Bush Administration proclaiming his belief that bilingual education was an effective means to help young students make the transition from schooling in their native language to learning in English. More significantly, perhaps, he has called for a reassessment of Hispanic education that goes beyond the bilingual issue. And he has turned from the debate over whether linguistic diversity threatens America's national identity to concentrate on more strictly educational questions.
A wide range of issues is being examined to find out what has gone wrong. For example, a study on the causes of the dropout crisis published last year by the Aspira Association, a community-based Hispanic youth organization, argued that there was a consensus among educators for concentration on early childhood. It posed the need to remedy many ills of urban poverty before schooling begins.
At the same time, a growing body of research has linked dropout rates to problems at the elementary-school level when Hispanic students are held back more often than others. Studies have repeatedly shown that in high school, students who are older than the norm are more likely to drop out.
There is also a substantial group of educators, with research in hand to back them up, who argue that lack of opportunity in higher education and the dearth of Hispanic professors on the faculties of the nation's colleges and universities deserve high priority.
Maccario Garcia, for example, did manage to hang on until graduation, but he was not able to enroll in a four-year university this fall as he had hoped. Instead he had to find work. He is taking some courses at a community college and continues to hope that he will eventually make it to college.
"You can't just blame the students or teachers for what's going on," he said. "You can't blame the administration either. You can't blame the parents. I suppose it's a whole system that's not working very well."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); DROPOUTS; BILINGUAL EDUCATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LABOR FORCE (88%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (78%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (74%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (72%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (71%); ETHNICITY (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); IMMIGRATION (55%); 

PERSON: SURO, ROBERTO; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



94 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Part A; Page 22; Column 1; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: The Culture Question

BYLINE: By Anthony DePalma

 BODY:
Demographics alone make it impossible, if not downright foolish, to ignore the education of minority students in the United States. Soon after the year 2000, black, Hispanic, Asian and American Indian youngsters will constitute a third of the nation's students, on their way to being a powerful presence in the American work force. Leaders in government, education and business agree that the schooling of these students has become a matter of national security. Parents and students acknowledge that schooling has become a grave matter of personal concern. Improving the education of minority students, however, is a delicate issue as entire communities struggle to find methods and approaches that work.
 STRAIGHT ROWS of desks all facing front give schools some sense of order, but they belie the real diversity of students. Demographic changes have forced schools to respond to that diversity. Recently, however, a small number of education experts have raised a stir by urging teachers and schools to recognize that students of various races and ethnic groups have such profound cultural differences that as a whole they learn in distinct, often incompatible ways. 
 The researchers go beyond habits of study to the very essence of how students learn. For instance, they say, white children take to symbols and abstractions, Asian children absorb data without context and black children relate better to people than to numbers.
Such theories played a part in the recent decision in Milwaukee to create two public schools, an elementary and a middle school, specifically for young black males. Earlier experiments in other states showed that academic achievement can be raised by tailoring classrooms to reflect the culture and environment from which students come.
Proponents say they are motivated by a desire to improve the academic standing of minority students. But their learning-style theories have led to charges of racial stereotyping and raised more questions about the proper role of schools: Should traditional public schools, steeped in European-American culture and practices, be restructured to serve the growing numbers of minority students and their individual needs? Or does such cultural catering amount to de facto segregation, with all its divisive implications?
"These are fundamental questions that we're all trying to come to terms with," said Warren E. Crichlow, an assistant professor at the Graduate School of Education and Human Development at the University of Rochester, in New York.
One of the most public controversies concerning these styles of learning came in 1987 when the New York State Board of Regents published a pamphlet onthe high dropout rate of minority students. The state said schools had failed many black students because they had not taken into account African-American students' learning styles, which stressed "inferential reasoning, rather than deductive or inductive reasoning" and a "tendency to approximate space, number and time, instead of aiming for complete accuracy."
The passages were based in part on research by Janice Hale-Benson, an associate professor of education at Cleveland State University in Ohio.
 
 
'When Black Children Differ . . .'
 "White children have patterns of abilities, strengths, use of language, social skills and demeanor that teachers take to," Dr. Hale-Benson said in a telephone interview. "When black children differ from these patterns they are penalized."
A controversy quickly arose over the pamphlet. State education officials appointed a panel of experts to examine the theory of learning styles and promised to revise the pamphlet. So far, it has not been reissued.
Dr. Hale-Benson said she often must defend her work, but that most people eventually understand that she is attempting to help schools reach black students. She said the ability of black men and women to participate fully in the education and economic mainstream will be determined by the ability of schools to recognize a dis tinct African-American culture.
 "Take Michael Jackson, Michael Jordan, Bill Cosby and Eddie Mur phy," Dr. Hale-Benson said. "They have made distinct contributions to American culture, but they would be a kindergarten teacher's worst nightmare. She would wind up tell ing Michael Jackson to sit still, Mi chael Jordan to sit down and Bill Cosby and Eddie Murphy to shut up."
 Dr. Hale-Benson has established in Warrensville Heights, a Cleve land suburb, one of the few pre schools in the United States tailored to what she perceives as the unique learning style of African-Amer icans. In this school, called Visions for Children, 33 youngsters are placed in groups named for Zulu, Ashanti and other African tribes. Instead of a traditional American school setting in which a class spends the entire day with a single teacher, they are taught in what Dr. Hale-Benson called the extended family tradition typical of Africa, in which the children spend time dur ing the day not only with their par ents but also with other relatives. In this system they are taught by a series of four teachers; one class with one teacher, another with a second, and so on.
 Because some research shows, she said, that black children are more restless than white children, the students are not kept sitting for long periods and they have time for active play in both the morning and afternoon.
The cultural instruction extends to the calendar as well. Halloween is out, replaced by Africa Day. Independence Day was dropped for the Emancipation Proclamation. Thanksgiving became Family Day. "We don't dress black children up in Pilgrim hats and tell them those were their ancestors," Dr. Hale-Benson said. "Three-year-olds who are confused about whether pilgrims were their ancestors will be confusd when they are 18-year-old voters."
Cultural identity is at the heart of the Milwaukee schools experiment. When they open in September 1991, the new elementary and middle schools for boys who are black will emphasize black heritage and attempt to relate education to the experience of black youths.
There have been other such experiments over the years. In 1972, for example, the Kamahamena Early Education Project in Hawaii examined classroom changes that would help bring up the below-average performance of native Hawaiian children on standardized tests. One of the most effective adaptations was in the way readings were discussed. Instead of the usual practice of waiting until called upon to answer individually, the students were allowed to talk spontaneously and to assist one another in the tradition of the Hawaiian-Polynesian style of conversation. The students also could respond in their native language, although the teachers asked questions in English. Scores on achievement tests rose dramatically.
Still, many educational psychologists reject the idea of learning styles. "Race and ethnicity are only a small part of the learning picture," said Ira K. Blake, an adjunct assistant professor of developmental and educational psychology at Columbia University's Teachers College. "All children learn in the same manner, but they individually bring patterns to the learning process that are continually influenced by different factors in their environment."
Another prominent researcher, whose work in the mid-1970's influenced learning-style theories, said the important factor is how teachers interpret the cultural behavior of students. The researcher, Asa G. Hilliard 3d, who is the Fuller Callaway Professor of Urban Education at Georgia State University, explained that, "We need to make sure that teachers don't misread the culture to provide false assessments of what the kids can do."
 
 
Black Cultural Characteristics
 Professor Hilliard said black children generally shared certain cultural characteristics that whites did not, including high levels of energy, impulsive interrupting and loud talking. Teachers who are not aware that these characteristics seem natural, and not disruptive, to black children sometimes allow this behavior to negatively influence their judgment of a black student's academic ability, Professor Hilliard said.
He said that once a teacher decides that a student is a poor achiever several things happen: Conversation is cut short, eye contact is diminished and the student's participation in further exercises is limited.
Professor Hilliard is currently holding workshops to show teachers how to differentiate between cultural style and true misbehavior.
While not going as far in accommodating culture as Dr. Hale-Benson's Visions school, the 200 independent black schools around the nation have gained a level of academic achievement and cultural emphasis that far exceeds public-school norms. One of the largest such institutions is the Chad School in Newark, N.J., with just under 500 black students from prekindergarten through the eighth grade. Tuition is $1,630 a year.
In the 21 years of its existence, Chad has sent graduates to exclusive high schools and competitive colleges, and consistently outscored all public schools in Newark. But the school's director, Leon Moore, described as "hogwash" theories that black children, because of their culture, have a different style of learning than other children.
What matters, Mr. Moore said, is using culture to give students a sense of identity. At Chad, children each morning recite "A Pledge to African People," a poem of self-affirmation composed in the 1970's that is used in other schools across the nation. Pictures of black heroes hang on classroom walls. But the most significant aspect of the school's success comes from hard work and basics, he said. Daily homework must be signed by a parent, all students older than 7 take tests every week, school days extend to 3:20 and teachers know their students personally.
"I don't think children, be they black or white, learn differently," Mr. Moore said. "Our philosophy here is that every child might not be capable of achieving the same academic level but we as educators are supposed to get the highest level of achievement out of every one of them.'

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); ETHNICITY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); ETHNIC GROUPS (79%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



95 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Part A; Page 23; Column 2; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: World Views

BYLINE: By Calvin Sims

 BODY:
FOR MORE than two decades, educators, scholars and politicians alike have called for public schools and universities to restructure their curriculums to include the contributions of women, blacks, Hispanics, Asians and other groups historically overlooked.
But until recently, most school systems and universities did little to incorporate these perspectives into their courses of study. Some schools offered cursory multicultural courses, others simply observed cultural and religious events like Black History month, Puerto Rican founder's day and Passover. 
 Today, public school boards and university academic committees nationwide are moving at record speed to revise textbooks and lesson plans to account for the achievements of non-Europeans in history, science, the arts and other fields.
The curriculum committee at Cleveland State University, for example, recently passed rules that include among graduation requirements at least two courses that deal with the history and experience of African-Americans and one course in a non-European culture.
Last month the California State Board of Education rejected social studies textbooks from seven publishers because they did not meet the state's new, rigorous standards for cultural diversity. The two fifth-grade textbooks that were approved devote 35 pages, for example, to an in-depth study of American Indians that includes their folklore, artifacts and culture, and offers an account of mid-19th-century conflicts told from the Indian standpoint.
"We are moving away from curriculums that highlight the Western perspective and only include sidebars and special pages on the contributions of women and various ethnic groups," said Francie M. Alexander, California's Associate Superintendent for Curriculum Instruction and Assessment.
 
 
The Ideal: An Accurate, Balanced View
 Ideally, multicultural curriculums provide students with a more accurate and balanced view of history, science and the arts than that found in traditional course work, which has de-emphasized or ignored the contributions of women and people of non-Western cultures. But while the movement toward multicultural education has come closer to this goal since its inception in the late 1960's, many education experts say it is being sidetracked lately by a growing dispute among educators and scholars over two very different but equally legitimate approaches to this curriculum reform.
One of these, the separatist approach, advocates an ethnocentric curriculum that emphasizes the perspective of one particular group in an effort not only to counterbalance the usual white male perspective but also to raise the self-esteem and achievement of children from racial and ethnic minority backgrounds.
 The other, the pluralist approach, seeks to account evenhandedly for the contributions of various racial and ethnic groups within the existing academic framework.
The scholarly underpinnings of both approaches and the curriculums their proponents are creating are firm. As Molefi Kete Asante, chairman of the African-American studies department at Temple University and one of the foremost advocates of Afrocentric education, noted, the ethnocentrism of the 1990's is being led by scholar-activists who are trained academics, rather than by political activists, as in the 1960's, who had thesame motivation but little scholarship to support it.
"The movement is based on the work of scholars who are trained in the ancient classics of both Europe and Africa and are simply trying to de-bias the present curriculum," Dr. Asante said. "We are not taking out Europe altogether because it does play a major role in society. But we are making certain that history and other subjects are not presented in a biased, Eurocentric way."
Rarely, then, does the dispute over multiculturalism deteriorate into finger-pointing at errors of fact. Rather, battle is being joined over questions of curriculum emphasis and balance -- how much of whose contributions and from what perspective.
Although the dispute nominally embraces all non-European cultures, it centers on the Afrocentric approach, which emphasizes African-American and African histories and the achievements of blacks. This is partly to build the self-esteem of black students who, proponents say, are taught little about the contributionsof people of African descent.
In Atlanta, for example, elementary school children are taught that while Thomas Edison invented the electric light, a black scientist named Louis Latimer designed the carbon filament that allows light bulbs to burn for prolonged periods. The lesson is part of the Atlanta public schools' new multicultural curriculum, which concentrates on the historical contributions of blacks.
"We believe black children need to feel good about themselves, and one way of developing this pride is to expose them to the accomplishments of their ancestors -- achievements that have long been overlooked," said Dr. Mae Kendall, director of program planning and curriculum development for the Atlanta public schools.
More than 1,200 Atlanta teachers and administrators have been trained in the new curriculum, which is structured around the premise that black Africa was the cradle of civilization -- a premise that scholars still debate. Developed by noted academics, the curriculum teaches, for example, that black Africa produced a civilization with kings and engineers who built great cities and pyramids, and scholars who inspired great Western thinkers like Plato and Pythagoras.
Critics of this approach argue that Afrocentrics are teaching lessons that distort history because they often ignore the contributions of other groups.
Gary B. Nash, a history professor at the University of California at Los Angeles who is the co-author of one social studies text selected by the state, said he had spent most of his career arguing and writing against the white male perspective of history.
"But I simply cannot agree with Afrocentrists who are calling for a separatist history," he said. "This is a new variety of Eurocentrism with the pendulum swinging to the opposite side." Glenn M. Ricketts, an assistant professor of political science at Raritan Valley Community College in Somerville, N.J., agreed with that assessment. "They are trying to replace one curriculum, which granted does have some biases, with another one that is equally biased," said Dr. Ricketts, who is also president of the New Jersey Association of Scholars, a group of academics that opposes current multicultural education efforts.
Dr. Ricketts argues that students in the United States, which has its roots in Western tradition and culture, need first to gain a firm grasp of their heritage as Americans before they move on to understanding their ethnic or racial heritage.
But since 92 percent of Atlanta's schoolchildren are black, Dr. Kendall said that only an extreme change in the curriculum's emphasis can "correct the past ills where children were taught from a purely Eurocentric perspective, so that our children will develop the self-esteem needed to achieve."
Dr. Kendall said the city's new curriculum met the state's basic education requirements for history and social studies, but did so from an African-American perspective. And she said the district was developing materials that would address similar needs among Atlanta's growing Hispanic and Asian populations.
"Ours is a multicultural thrust," Dr. Kendall said. "We are saying that all people have a right to know their history and culture. Yes, it's a separatist approach in the sense that it hasn't been done before."
Dr. Asante put it more strongly. "Either you are trying to defend the way the system is now by letting Asians, blacks and Hispanics have a small piece in the white hegemony, or you rewrite the books so they reflect the truth," he said.
By contrast, Ms. Alexander, the California associate superintendent, said: "Every ethnic group has things to be proud of and things not to be so proud of. That's reality, and that's what you should teach." She added: "We think that we have found the right balance because our curriculum is neither Afrocentric nor Eurocentric. It doesn't help children to be misled about anything, especially history."
A central theme in the California curriculum, which has been widely praised, is teaching students to view history, especially its controversies, through the different perspectives of various participants so that students base their judgments on evidence and not on bias and emotion, Ms. Alexander said.
On the issue of who discovered America, for example, California children study the culture and achievements of the Aztec, Inca and Mayan Indians before they are taught that Columbus discovered the New World for the Europeans.
"The histories of African, Indian and European people have been inextricably mingled from the beginning and cultural borrowing between groups has gone on for some time," Dr. Nash said. "You can't deny that."
But critics say the California program does not go far enough in teaching the experiences and perspectives of various ethnic and racial groups.
"The California approach offers a little bit of history and culture from other groups, but it does so using the same Eurocentric framework," said Carolyn M. Leonard, coordinator of multi-ethnic education for the Portland, Ore., public schools, one of the first districts to develop ethnocentric curriculums. "California is saying, 'Yes, we all have struggled, but let's all become one happy family by learning a smidgen about each other'sheritage.' "
Higher education is not above this multicultural fray, as its institutions struggle over revising and broadening courses to include the works of nonwhite Europeans.
At Florida State University in Tallahassee, students will be required as of fall 1991 to take one liberal arts course that looks at race, gender or ethnicity within Western culture and another that focuses solely on a different, non-European culture. Students could take, for example, an art course that centers on East Indian themes or an economics course that examines third-world markets.
To make available a wide variety of such courses, the university has asked professors to supplement some courses so that they include the works of scholars from other cultures. "We are trying to insure that our students have experience looking at the world from something other than a Western European or white male point of view," said Dr. Elisabeth S. Muhlenfeld, Florida State's dean of undergraduate studies. "Otherwise, students will be ill prepared to meet the world that exists beyond college."
Cleveland State University, which since the 1970's has required students to take at least one course dealing with the African-American experience, recently tightened its multicultural curriculum requirements so that courses are "meatier and more comprehensive," said Peter Clapham, a geology professor who is chairman of the curriculum committee. In the past, Professor Clapham said, students could take a course that was essentially Western in orientation, but had a section at the end that focused on blacks.
"Now, the primary focus of the course must pertain to the African-American experience, culture or history," he said. "It's recognition that this is a multicultural society and that it's just as important for whites to understand something about the black experience as it is for blacks to know about whites."

GRAPHIC: Drawings (pgs. 23 & 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEXTBOOKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US); WOMEN; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); RELIGION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); HISTORY (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); APPROVALS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); FOLKLORE (71%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



96 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 34; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 5143 words

HEADLINE: IF A TREE FALLS IN THE FOREST, THEY HEAR IT

BYLINE: By Trip Gabriel; Trip Gabriel writes frequently about the environment.

 BODY:
By day, the forest is the property of the Pacific Lumber Company, but by night it belongs to the radical environmentalists of Earth First.
Under a cloak of darkness, small bands of men and women begin an arduous hike over steep ridges, their flashlights dimmed with blue filters to elude the timber company's security men. After a few hours of stolen sleep on the trail, they meet at midmorning in a clearing. 
 In all, there are more than 70 intruders in ragtag camouflage fatigues. One man weaves pine sprigs into his epaulets to blend in with the forest. Instructions are whispered and then the eco-guerrillas of Earth First! (the group uses an exclamation point in its name) move out. Their target: Murrelet Grove, 222 acres of virgin redwood trees in Northern California where logging is under way. The objective: to stop the cutting by placing their own bodies in the path of Pacific Lumber's bulldozers and chain saws.
Around 11 A.M. the Earth Firsters climb a steep slope into Murrelet Grove, named for a rare sea bird believed to nest only in virgin forests. The grove is deeply shadowed, with streaky beams of light penetrating the multilayered canopy. But the scars of logging are already to be seen: haul roads and skid tracks used by bulldozers to drag fallen trees off the hillsides.
With whistles, horns and Indian war whoops, the Earth First guerrillas announce their arrival. On the ridge above them, several loggers in steel helmets look up in astonishment. In an effort to halt two men who are cutting apart a fallen tree, one protester shouts: "That tree may roll! You are endangering lives!"
Suddenly, there is the angry growl of a bulldozer from above. It careens into view, pushing an avalanche of dirt before its steel blade. "Whoa," one Earth Firster cries in alarm. "What the. . . ."
Many in the group back away from the charging dozer, but others stand their ground. The machine halts a few feet away, while a handful of protesters clamber onto the pile of dirt it has pushed up, challenging its advance. As the bulldozer retreats up the slope, the Earth Firsters race after it, seizing their victory.
In Murrelet Grove, a bitter controversy over harvesting the last virgin forests has come to a head. Once redwoods as old as one millennium -- giant trees with moss-draped boughs -- carpeted the foggy coastal mountains of Northern California. Today less than 10 percent of this old-growth forest remains. Some three-quarters of the remnants are in state and national parks, while most of the unprotected trees -- on about 24,000 acres in Humboldt County --are held by the Pacific Lumber Company.
Two initiatives on the California ballot this week could sharply curtail the harvesting of the old-growth redwoods. But the militant environmentalists of Earth First couldn't wait for the judgment of the voters. In June, they began a campaign of illegal protests, dubbed "Redwood Summer," to derail the logging. For its part, fearful of the initiatives, the timber company had crews out working six days a weeks to stockpile as many logs as possible. For both Earth First and Pacific Lumber, it has come down to a fight that is being waged grove by grove, tree by tree.
In a forest hollow, the Earth Firsters rush to a redwood that is about to be felled. Some 30 people, forming two circles, link arms around the redwood's giant trunk.
A logger, attempting to ignore them, goes about his job, making two small cuts with a chain saw. He raises his ax to chop out the wedge of wood.
A protester named Dakotah Schrempp places his fingers inches from where the ax blade strikes.
"Let me fall the tree," the logger, 60-year-old Doug Coleman, says in exasperation. But then Coleman sets down his ax. He knows he can't cut down a tree that's surrounded by human bodies. He tries to reason. "When you guys leave, I'm gonna cut this tree anyway," he says, "so why not leave now so I can do my job?"
The Earth Firsters argue their case passionately: the forests are being overcut; at the current harvest rate, the ancient groves will be gone in less than 20 years, and loggers like Coleman will be out of work.
"If we go your way, I'm out of work today," Coleman replies.
"Go on strike! Don't cut old growth," pleads Schrempp, a 36-year-old activist from Louisiana. He hugs the trunk of the redwood, which is so big he can see the man standing next to him, and the man after that -- but no one else. Coleman, a logger nearly all his life, tells the tree-huggers this redwood was probably a sapling around the time of Christopher Columbus. When Schrempp hears this, tears spout from his eyes.
Just then someone yells, "Deputies coming with handcuffs." There is instant mayhem. Earth Firsters scatter as furious loggers, along with the sheriff's deputies, give chase. One logger clamps a protester in a headlock.
In all, 37 protesters are arrested on trespassing charges and taken into custody. Meanwhile, the loggers go back to work. Coleman cuts down not only the giant redwood but also many others, and by the end of the summer only about 30 percent of Murrelet Grove is still standing.

EARTH FIRST IS A group that in no way resembles other environmental organizations. Frustrated with the political system, its followers take direct, often unlawful, actions, aimed at timber, mining and other development companies.
As demonstrated in Murrelet Grove, the radicals have brought a degree of passion to environmental causes that more moderate groups, like the Sierra Club and the National Wildlife Federation, cannot match. To some mainstream environmentalists, the passion of Earth First is an inspiration. But others find it counterproductive, tarring radicals as irresponsible or, in some cases, eco-terrorists.
In May, when two organizers of Redwood Summer were injured in their car by a pipe bomb explosion, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, working with police in Oakland, immediately accused the activists of making the bomb themselves. Further investigation left the Government in the embarrassing position of declining to bring charges for lack of evidence. The contention of the injured activists, Darryl Cherney and Judi Bari, that they were victims of an F.B.I. harassment campaign reminiscent of the 1960's drew more attention to Earth First than it had ever known.
Claiming 15,000 members, Earth First is now one of the most visible environmental groups in the country. Its theatrics have landed on network newscasts and "60 Minutes"; an Earth Firster equipped with a cellular phone once gave live radio interviews while staging a sit-in in a tree, as a roaring chain saw threatened to bring him down. For sheer guerrilla theater, Earth First has outstripped even the anti-whaling commandos of Greenpeace, the one-time fringe organization, which now looks positively moderate. Earth Firsters say that's part of the point: their extremism allows others a bolder field in which to operate.
At the same time, their real impact on the issues, the backlash they may be generating and their underlying philosophy -- which is far more revolutionary than many sympathizers may think -- have gone largely unexamined.

THE OCCUPATION OF Murrelet Grove was billed as an act of civil disobedience. But Earth First is usually identified with something more serious: ecological sabotage. One of the group's co-founders, Dave Foreman, was co-editor of a book on the subject, "Ecodefense: A Field Guide to Monkeywrenching," which explains in devilish detail how to disable bulldozers -- by slashing hydraulic hoses or pouring Drano into the radiator. Other techniques include pulling up road survey stakes, toppling billboards and spiking trees with 60-penny nails that damage loggers' saws.
Radicals call these tactics "monkey wrenching," in homage to the 1975 Edward Abbey novel, "The Monkey Wrench Gang." Earth First's covert image is furthered by the fact that it has no national officers and no offical enrollment -- the better to foil investigators. Since Earth First emerged a decade ago, acts of monkey wrenching have risen steadily. Last year, scores of incidents were reported in the Pacific Northwest, and there were at least 12 tree spikings in Northern California; nationally, the cost to the timber industry was as high as $25 million, according to Christopher Manes in his book "Green Rage."
The mainline environmental movement deplores ecological sabotage. "I have no use for tree spiking and other tactics which in their ideal might look like a moral statement, but which threaten to harm people," says Doug W. Scott, associate executive director of the 620,000-member Sierra Club. "Individuals ought to take responsibility for the consequences of their political actions, but action in the night is on a slippery slope down toward terrorism, and that is a slippery slope that I abhor."
Few radicals actually practice monkey wrenching, and not all agree on the need for it. But Dave Foreman, whose lectures, writings and seven arrests have made him the most influential leader of the movement, defends it. He considers it a desperate act in desperate times.
"We're in a war," he says bluntly, "the war of industrial civilization against the natural world. If you look at what the leading scientists are telling us, we could lose one-third of all species in the next 40 years. We're being told that by the end of the century the only large mammals left will be those we choose to allow to continue to exist. We're in one of the great extinction episodes in three and a half billion years of evolution."
Many Earth Firsters make a moral distinction between their actions and terrorist ones because they target only inanimate objects. They say they draw the line at causing harm to people. Yet the potential for injury does exist, as demonstrated by a 1987 tree spiking that seriously injured a California timber worker when his saw shattered. The episode was never officially linked to Earth First, which advocates that spikers mark their trees with a spray-painted "S." But not every spiker complies. The very need to promote a warning proves the possibility of injury.
The controversy doesn't bother Foreman much. He can sometimes seem coolly indifferent to human well-being when measured against the fate of the natural world. "To me," he says, "the possibility that we could lose the last 5 percent of the ancient forest and the ecosystem it represents is far more frightening than possible injury.
"It comes down to the point where if you give warnings, who's making which decision? We're saying, just leave the tree alone. It's a totally different thing than what we think of as terrorism. Just leave the goddam place alone. Don't destroy this ecosystem that's been around since the glaciers retreated."
It's no surprise that with such rhetoric Earth First has caught the attention of law-enforcement authorities. In 1988, the F.B.I. succeeded in infiltrating one of its agents into Arizona Earth First, extensively bugging members and recruiting three informants. On the night of May 30, 1989, three Earth Firsters were arrested while allegedly blowtorching a utility tower in the desert west of Phoenix. The next morning, half a dozen officers, with drawn pistols and bulletproof vests, seized Foreman in his bed and charged him as a conspirator. Facing five years in prison, Foreman is scheduled to go on trial early next month. He vehemently denies the charges, claiming he has been targeted for a political reason: to send a message of intimidation to other radicals.

BY DESIGN, EARTH FIRST has no Washington office. Most envrionmental radicals decline to work through the political system, disdaining the process of filing lawsuits, lobbying or even voting. They rally round a simple -- some would say simplistic -- slogan: "No compromise in the defense of Mother Earth!"
Thus, for example, the group, with a straight face, proposes a Wilderness Preserve System that would encompass one-third of all United States territory outside Alaska. Earth First's mission, as one broadside puts it, is to "move out the cars and civilized people, dismantle the roads and dams, reclaim the plowed land and clearcuts, reintroduce extirpated species."
But this no-compromise stance is criticized by other environmentalists as self-defeating. They contend that Earth First cannot hope to be a player if it won't take a seat at the table; the give-and-take of politics, even the necessity to accept temporary defeat, is part of the democratic process. "Of all the countries in the world, the U.S. has by far the most easily influenced Government," says the Sierra Club chairman, Michael McCloskey. "There's no sense in acting frustrated, like there's no recourse, when there often is a pretty good recourse if you're systematic and organized in how you go about it."
Earth Firsters reply that in Washington and many state capitals during the past decade the political system broke down because public officials are in the thrall of development interests. Agencies like the United States Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management, which regulate timber, mining and grazing, are accused of failing to exercise stewardship over public lands. Even McCloskey concedes this point: "We have a sit-down strike by the Government on environmental issues. There's this great gap between what the public wants and what it's getting, and this is leading to a radicalizaton of the grass roots."
 This has played into Earth First's hands. The radicals have sympathizers in unexpected places. "Boy, I could probably put cement in a bulldozer," said one high-ranking staffer at a Washington environmental group, insisting on anonymity.
 Earth Firsters charge that environmentalists who let themselves be drawn into negotiations with public officials end up co-opted. They point to a compromise last year, brokered by Oregon's pro-timber Senator Mark O. Hatfield and reluctantly accepted by the Sierra Club, that released for cutting some 100,000 acres of old-growth forest in the Pacific Northwest previously protected from the chain saw by the courts. The accord incensed many grass-roots activists and led to defections from the Sierra Club.

JUDI BARI LIES stretched full-length on a living-room couch, nerve damage and shattered pelvis making it extremely painful to sit up. Nine weeks after the May car bombing, the Earth First activist was released from a rehabilitation center, but her injuries will probably leave her permanently disabled. She has agreed to a meeting, though only at the home of friends; at the time she was in hiding in Northern California. Today she travels with a bodyguard, still fearful she may be a target of assassins.
Activist insiders say it's absurd to believe that Bari could have knowingly had a bomb in her car, since Northern California Earth First has been moving away from environmental sabotage, or "ecotage," renouncing tree spiking and calling for nonviolent protest during Redwood Summer. Bari, 40 years old, is an assured and articulate speaker who, even before her near martyrdom, was one of Earth First's leaders.
A former union organizer from the East Coast, she became a radical environmentalist while working as a carpenter in Mendocino County. Working on a house one day, she noticed the beauty of the knot-free wood used for siding. "Is this old-growth redwood?" she asked.
"Oh, yeah," her supervisor said offhandedly, "this stuff's a thousand years old."
"I was appalled," Bari recalls. "A light bulb went on: we are cutting down the old-growth forests to make yuppie houses! I was building a 25,000-square-foot mansion for a single man to use as a weekend retreat. It was so wasteful. I became obsessed with the forests."
Earth Firsters, especially in Northern California, think of themselves as a tribe, and they have evolved their own life style -- more precisely, they've retreaded a quaint and familiar life style. In small towns among the redwoods, new-age settlers have appeared in tie-dyed wardrobes and dreadlocks. They work as carpenters, holistic healers, mandolin players, giving themselves names like "Sequoia" and "The Man Who Walks in the Woods."
Within Earth First, these neo-hippies are known as the "woo-woo element." Their utopia is a concept called "bioregionalism," a vision of people depending only on what's locally grown or made. Timber and other natural resources would cease to be exported from their native region. Thus, Earth Firsters in Northern California are pushing for legalization of a major regional crop -- hemp, a form of marijuana that is also used for fiber products.
"Something like Los Angeles," Judi Bari says, "which only exists because they're stealing water from another region, would not exist. Los Angeles is an ecological disaster."
Bari is indifferent to the great hope of mainstream environmentalists in California, the ballot initiative nicknamed "Forests Forever" that would protect the redwoods. "I may vote for it, if I happen to vote," she says casually. "Earth First doesn't really work in the political system. We don't work in the legislative system."
Which raises some questions: How effective can Earth First be in bringing about change? What role does the group play in the environmental movement, and does it make a difference? Answers to these begin to crystallize upon closer inspection of the occupation of Murrelet Grove, an Earth First campaign in microcosm.
The Murrelet Grove activists were among some 3,000 people who heeded the call to participate in Redwood Summer, a name chosen to evoke the early-60's freedom riders of Mississippi Summer. By Labor Day, more than 150 Redwood Summer participants had been arrested. The Murrelet Grove protest was one of the largest "direct actions" of the summer, and yet it slowed down logging for barely an afternoon. It did not even generate the media attention that Earth First protests had in the past, since access to the woods required reporters to risk arrest. The demonstration got only a couple of paragraphs in local and regional papers. Overall, Earth First's Redwood Summer failed almost completely to stop logging activity.
Measured in the short term, direct action usually does fail, and most Earth Firsters know it. The only lasting solutions to conservation of forests have traditionally come through new laws, lawsuits and land purchases. Earth First, while swearing off these kinds of actions, nevertheless concedes the need for other environmental groups to pursue them.
And so, in a broader sense, there is no doubt that the antics of Earth First in the California redwoods have had an impact. In 1987, when the group first targeted the Pacific Lumber Company, owner of the majority of unprotected old-growth redwoods, none of the mainstream environmental groups was much involved. Pacific Lumber had doubled its rate of cutting to pay off junk-bond debts after it was acquired in a hostile takeover, and the company wasn't much interested in selling or donating its trees for parks.
Through attention-grabbing actions, Earth First turned the fate of the grand old redwoods into a public issue. And into the fray they drew the Sierra Club and other more conventional environmentalists, who sued to halt the cutting until more was known of the threat to wildlife. With pressure mounting against them, Pacific Lumber and state officials announced a temporary moratorium this spring on harvesting the world's largest unprotected virgin redwood grove, a 3,000-acre tract known as Headwaters Forest. If the Forests Forever initiative passes this Tuesday, Headwaters Forest will be purchased with state funds and officially made a preserve.
"It was the spirit of yahooism that led to the logging restrictions," says Marc Depolo, a longtime Earth First activist. "We stood up for the trees' right to exist. We've ended up where the Headwaters Forest is a statewide issue."
In the Headwaters Forest at least, without Earth First trees might have fallen with no one to hear.

ALL THROUGH THE Pacific Northwest, logging has been a subject of bitter controversy. As tree cutting reached record highs in the late 1980's, timber interests argued that the economy of the region depended on unlimited access to the old-growth trees outside parks and designated wilderness areas. In rebuttal, conservationists contended that, at the rate the trees were being felled, the old growth, mostly on Federal lands on the western slope of the Cascade range, would be gone in 10 to 20 years. These enormous trees, the conservationists also pointed out, are an invaluable habitat for salmon and the spotted owl, which this year made the threatened species list.
The cause of the old-growth forests has become the leading conservation issue in the country. The impetus for the cause didn't come from mainline environmental organizations. It was largely the work of a plethora of obscure grass-roots groups, who, drawing on the research of the Government's own biologists, sounded the alarm. "This is an issue where the grass roots got going first, and the national groups were asked to come join," admits Frances Hunt, a Washington lobbyist for the National Wildlife Federation.
Earth First, which erected its first illegal blockades to protect old growth in 1983, claims to have played a major role in the successful grass-roots campaign. But other environmentalists aren't so sure. They say that the contribution of the radicals was minimal, that -- apart from making lots of noise -- when it came to the unglamorous work of putting together the coalition necessary to exert poltical muscle, most Earth Firsters were nowhere to be found. "There's a big difference between Earth First actions and grass-roots activism," says George T. Frampton Jr., president of the Wilderness Society. "The real grass-roots activity in the last two to three years has been hard, not very sexy, and not very visible. It doesn't get on television.
"If you read editorials now in the Northwest papers, you will see in almost every editorial the fact that, while saving forests costs jobs, we have to understand this area is in transition and jobs will be lost anyway. Most of the jobs are being lost to technological change. How do you think that argument gets on every editorial page? It's two and a half years of work."
Earth Firsters argue that without a favorable climate of public opinion, mainline groups would not be able to influence politicians. The willingness of the radicals to put their bodies between the trees and the chain saws dramatizes the issue, they say, and taps public sympathy.
To a degree this is true. But while Earth First has won sympathizers, the group's tactics have also alienated many people, particularly in timber country. Earth First's guerrilla theater has led to a backlash that threatens to undo even the small gains already made, such as Headwaters Forest.
In the end, the spirit of Redwood Summer bore scant resemblance to that of Mississippi Summer, with its pursuit of high ideals. Marc Depolo, who, under the nom de guerre "Mokai," helped organize the Murrelet Grove takeover, conceded that its objective was not really to stop logging. "Mostly what we do is get in their face," he says. "It's almost personal. We don't like what you guys are doing, so we're going to come over and tell you."
Not surprisingly, the loggers of Humbolt County took it personally. They felt they were being harassed, and they grew furious at what they saw as the arrogance of the Earth Firsters. In Northern California, the two cultures are bitterly polarized, with condescension, ugly words and sometimes even violence passing back and forth between them.
Just as they'd expected, Redwood Summer demonstrators were the targets of physical abuse: one man was stripped and beaten; others were chased from a town meeting, and several had their heads forcibly shaved, supposedly for lice, in the Humboldt County jail.
Earth First's aggressive confrontations succeeded in "getting in their faces." But as for saving trees, which ultimately requires a political solution such as the Forests Forever initiative, the tactic seems to have backfired. "I don't think it has been helpful, because it allowed industry to focus on Earth First and take the light away from the overcutting," says Gail Lucas of the Sierra Club, a prime mover behind the Forests Forever campaign.
As the days dwindle down before the vote, polls show that the initiative, Proposition 130, is in trouble. The timber industry has mounted a $12 million ad campaign, cunningly implying that Earth First was behind the iniative, which it wasn't. "The polling shows that a linking of Prop 130 with Earth First can kill it," Lucas says flatly. "People do not like radical environmentalists."

TACTICS ARE NOT the only way in which Earth First differs from groups in the mainline environmental movement. Its philosophy is also vastly different. Most Earth Firsters espouse a system of belief called "Deep Ecology," which holds, in essence, that a man has the same rights as a mouse. Human beings are not meant to exert dominion over the earth; all species have equal title to the earth's bounty.
Though the theory has a certain noble simplicity, Earth Firsters have used it to arrive at some truly revolutionary conclusions. Our current technological culture is unethical, they say, since it permits humans to prosper while driving other species toward extinction. To protect the rights of trees and wolves -- and to save the human species -- we must be prepared to give up such planet-destroying extravagances as cars, televisions, planes and computers. A Luddite phobia of technology runs deep through Earth First, whose members have even opposed the University of Arizona's development of a telescope on a fragile desert mountain.
 In his recent book, "Green Rage," Earth Firster Chirstopher Manes argues that we must roll back more than just the last century of technology. Manes calls the Enlightenment a "holocaust," because it was during that period that the intellectual distinction between man and nature was first made. Manes suggests that future societies be modeled on hunter-gatherer tribes, quoting one activist as saying, "Many of us in the Earth First movement would like to see human beings live much more like the way they did 15,000 years ago, as opposed to what we see now."
Needless to say, few Earth Firsters actually practice Deep Ecology. Not many have given up their cars or unplugged their word processors. Even Dave Foreman, wearing a Hawaiian shirt and chomping on a cheeseburger in a Ramada Inn in downtown Tucson, Ariz., his home city, looks every bit the middle-class American he admits to being. "Certainly I recognize the contradiction in flying all over the country to give speeches about not doing that sort of thing," Foreman says casually between bites. "There are constantly contradictions."
While the mainstream of the environmental movement is absorbed with issues like clean air, clean water and the greenhouse effect, the radicals of Earth First dismiss these efforts as nothing but attempts to preserve the high standard of living in advanced industrial society. For Deep Ecologists, the real hot-button issues are overconsumption and overpopulation.
Foreman isn't sure how many human beings the earth could support in a society that gave equal rights to all creatures. But Arne Naess, a Norwegian philosopher who coined the term Deep Ecology, once suggested, in all seriousness, a target population for the globe of 100 million people.
Such thinking has lead some Earth Firsters to view human beings as, in Foreman's words, "a cancer on nature." Indeed, Foreman goes so far as to argue that the United States ought to be closed to immigration. His reasoning is that an influx of people striving to live a middle-class life in America will deplete our resources faster than if they'd remained home in the third world.
Foreman has also suggested that such human tragedies as the AIDS epidemic and African famines can be viewed as examples of nature healing itself. Rather than send foreign aid to Ethiopia, he once argued, "the best thing would be to just let nature seek its own balance, to let the people there just starve."
Such views lead critics to label Foreman an "eco-fascist." He claims, however, that he is merely the bearer of bad news, not its advocate. "I don't think the earth can sustain this population of five and a half billion," he asserts. "People are going to die. It's not because I want them to. It's because they've overshot the carrying capacity of the planet. I really think there is going to be a major ecological collapse. There's going to be a concomitant die-off of the human population. The next 20 years aren't going to be very pleasant."
Foreman speaks matter-of-factly, bloodlessly, as if all this were self-evident. In his youth, before he discovered Deep Ecology, he campaigned for Barry Goldwater and led a state chapter of the far-right Young Americans for Freedom. His stands today on immigration and foreign aid are in perfect sync with the archconservative positions of his past. He is a man at home on the edges, where the issues are always black and white.
Even fellow Earth Firsters are concerned about Foreman's shocking indifference to human suffering, fearing that their leader has gone beyond Deep Ecology to advance the cause of other species at man's expense. Recently Foreman's anti-humanism precipitated a schism in the movement. A few months ago -- when some Earth Firsters in Northern California started to embrace such traditional political causes as labor reform in an effort, they say, to change society before it's too late -- Foreman resigned from the group he co-founded. He immediately announced plans for a new organization to focus narrowly on wilderness preservation. As one Earth Firster put it, "Foreman takes the mission of environmentalism at this point as a holding action while creatures wait for the demise of modern civilization."
If environmental extremism has made an impact, it is by dint of the alarm bells it has set off. The calls of Earth First have not fallen on deaf ears. Environmentalists of all stripes share the anxiety that the life-support system of the planet is perilously out of balance, that we are running out of natural resources, while we choke on toxins and subvert our own climate.
But a huge gap has developed between diagnosing the problem and prescribing the cure. Many environmentalists worry that the solutions of Earth First are so extreme, and often so merciless in their implications for present society, that people will be convinced the situation is hopeless. And that is something no environmentalist believes the earth can afford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS113310 LOGGING (94%); SIC2411 LOGGING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); EARTH (93%); 

COMPANY: HUMBOLDT REDWOOD CO LLC (94%); THE TIMBER CO (72%); EARTH FIRST (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EARTH FIRST! (ORGN) EARTH FIRST; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; MURRELET GROVE (CALIF)

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; ENVIRONMENT; TERRORISM; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ECOTERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); STATE PARKS (73%); TERRORISM (60%); 

PERSON: GABRIEL, TRIP

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



97 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 29; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2408 words

HEADLINE: Pedaling Beside th Potomac

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.; JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. is a correspondent in the Washington bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
I PROMISED my 8-year-old son a trip through time as well as distance. Perhaps curiosity would help propel his diminutive one-speed bike, which he had never pedaled more than a dozen miles, as we cycled at least six times that far in three days.
If ever a backwoods trail was designed for a young boy's first extended bicycling trip, it is the path we took along the old canal that nestles against the Potomac River for 184.5 miles from Washington to Cumberland, Md. The elongated national park encasing the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal and its towpath is punctuated by campsites, full of diversions, haunted by history, devoid of motorized traffic and flat. We intended to ride from the outskirts of Washington northwest to the Civil War battlefield at Antietam. 
 For adults, it is not out of the question to cover the entire length of the canal in two or three days. Younger cyclists cannot go so far or so fast; on our three-day trip last October, we covered about 25 miles a day. But speed is hardly appropriate on this trail, once trampled by mules towing barges at four miles an hour. Instead of clocking the passage of milestones, a traveler should allocate half of each day for clambering around the old stone works of the canal, for fishing in the stately river and for expeditions to nearby landmarks.
The canal is so easily accessible all along its route that it offers trips of any duration, on foot, on bicycle, or in a canoe -- although the Potomac is for experienced canoeists only and is extremely hazardous in some spots. For most of its length, the canal itself is dry.
In truth, mobility is no requirement for enjoying the park. I spent the Memorial Day weekend last year with five boys camping at Fort Frederick, upstream from the canal's midpoint near Hagerstown, Md. On the spur of the moment we also sometimes take day trips on the canal, usually confining ourselves to the immediate neighborhood of Washington.
Our northbound camping trip last October covered most of the canal's southern half. The three of us -- my son, Fiery, our family's German au pair, Annette von Rotsmann, and I -- began at Great Falls, just outside Washington, knowing that rocky terrain would have caused a problematic detour just south of the falls. (This is one of just two places on the canal where bicycles have trouble passing and must detour onto nearby roads. The other is a 10-mile stretch beginning 84 miles up the canal.)
At Great Falls, where the Potomac cascades violently through chutes and churns up the whirlpools so popular among intrepid kayakers, the trail and nearby cliffs swarm with pedestrians on fine weekends. The park there features one of the canal's few functioning locks. The park service's barges haul visitors boarding in Georgetown or at the falls, operating from mid-April to mid-October. The covered barges are pulled by mules and handled by tour guides in 19th-century dress.
The idea of a canal along the river germinated in the mind of George Washington whose Potomac Company built a few channels on the Virginia side to skirt unnavigable rapids. But the plan died with Washington in 1799, and was not revived on the Maryland embankment until 1828, after the Erie Canal had proved the economic viability of such an undertaking. The canal was completed as far as Cumberland in 1850 at an expense of $22 million, and carried freight until 1924.

WE left Great Falls late on a Friday afternoon, with camping equipment and a variety of fresh and dried foods, and were eager to travel a dozen miles before pitching camp. Otherwise we might have dawdled at Swains Lock, which we reached quickly, to buy a soft drink or some live bait, or even to rent a rowboat or a canoe. Onward we pressed, past locks and feeder dams where water diverts from the river into the canal. Just as dusk fell we arrived at Milepost 21, and our camp at Horsepen Branch.
The more than 30 hiker-biker campsites on the towpath, spaced five to 10 miles apart, are miraculously underused. Rarely did we have to share the clearings in the woods with other campers. Each site has a cooking grill and a safe spot for a campfire, which can be fed abundantly on fallen twigs and branches gathered from the forest floor. Each camp also has a chemically sanitized outhouse and a sturdy garbage can, emptied by the Park Service. Finally, there are water pumps with clean drinking water, at once a source of refreshment and a fountain of amusement for young campers. We erected our tents, grilled a chicken we had brought with us, washed up and fished without success in the dark, taunted by the splashes of jumping bass.
The clearing at Horsepen Branch abuts the McKee Besher Wildlife Management Area, a wetlands preserve that provides superb birdwatching for those so inclined. The cries of unseen waterfowl echoed over the river there. In the summertime an explorer in these parts must make generous donations of blood to the swarming mosquitoes.
Last autumn, though, there were no bugs. Saturday morning arrived chilly and calm, a mist lying low on the broad placidity of the river. After fueling ourselves with oatmeal and hot beverages we piled our gear on our bicycles and rolled away before the fog did so.
Notwithstanding the alluvial terrain, which rises but 605 feet from sea level to the canal's upstream terminus, the ideal conveyance for this trip is the so-called mountain bike. That is what I rode, cutting a bulky figure on wide tires, with a massive load of saddlebags and paraphernalia mounted behind me. My sonpedaled a sturdy but uncomplicated bike with a squeaky chain. Carrying our mess kits in his wire basket, he rattled and clanked over the ruts and skidded treacherously on the litter of black walnuts in our path. Annette was equipped with even less orthodoxy on a narrow-wheeled 10-speed, a pile of gear bundled like an oversized baby in the child's seat behind her. The trail, varying from gravel to hardpacked dirt or, in stretches, soft mud, can be rough on a bicycle. We heard a rumor of one rider who suffered seven blowouts in a day before calling it quits. Presumably a spoke was rubbing his inner tube the wrong way, for nothing about the trail itself is severe enough to cause that kind of aggravation.
Our ungainly troika sped energetically to White's Ferry, covering nearly 10 miles as if oblivious to the blur of scenery. At the ferry, a barge named for Jubal Early, the Confederate general, carries cars bound to and from Leesburg, Va. Limited provisions and fishing supplies can be purchased here, and canoes rented; there were many other places along the way where we were able to buy fruit, milk, candy bars and the like to supplement the food we had brought.
The next landmark is rightly regarded as a marvel -- the Monocacy River Aqueduct, an inspiring white granite construction carrying the canal's trench like an elevated railroad above the waters of the Monocacy where the tributary joins the Potomac. The seven stone arches, spanning 560 feet, were no mean accomplishment for the stonemasons of the early 1830's. The rocks were hauled four miles from Sugarloaf Mountain, visible in the distance.
Our campground for the second night was near Point of Rocks, where a promontory of stone wedges the canal tightly against the Potomac. Few legal scholars remember the fierce dispute between canal and railroad lawyers over the right of way at this narrow gap between the river and the precipice.
Construction of the canal began on the same day -- July 4, 1828 -- that the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, America's first, was launched in Baltimore. The railroad gained steam faster than the canal progressed, but at the outset water transportation was the standard method of bulk transportation. The canal from the Chesapeake Bay was initially meant to press upward into Pennsylvania where it would join the Ohio River, opening the West to commerce.
The railroad tracks north from Washington followed the same course as the canal. Even today, passenger and freight trains from Washington pass this way en route to Pittsburgh. The iron horse and the mule competed for a brief interval, and at Point of Rocks they labored too close for comfort. Lawyers hired by the railroad and the canal fought for years over whose interests were supreme.
The litigation delayed the opening of the canal to Harpers Ferry until 1833, but finally ended when the railroads agreed to put up a fence separating their tracks from the adjacent canal. This supposedly would prevent the trains from spooking the mules.

ALAS, the fence is now gone, and the modern trains shrieked through the night, shattering the peace inside our tents, which occupied ground where the mules once must have brayed in terrified response.
The next day our trip took us past the junction of the Shenandoah and the Potomac at Harpers Ferry, W. Va. We did not cross the bridge into the historic town. An ambitious adult might well bicycle the whole distance from Washington to Harpers Ferry in a day, staying in one of the town's inns before making the return trip of 60 miles to Georgetown. The famous story of John Brown and his megalomaniacal raid on the Harpers Ferry arsenal presented me with another opportunity to disguise pedagogy in my outdoorsman's garb. We were nearing Antietam, not terribly long ago the scene of a terrible slaughter, and I grappled awkwardly with history as I tried to explain to Fiery and Annette what had happened in these woods and fields, and why.
We approached the Antietam Creek campsite just as the lecture ended and a shower began. Our arrival was not as well timed as it initially seemed. The site was closed for the season. A police car parked at the otherwise lifeless information center reinforced the posted prohibition of campers. We had no choice but to press on in the rain to a campsite opposite Shepherdstown.
The rain intensified, wetting us down thoroughly. I cannot say that the thought of renting a clean, dry bed in the nearby town never entered my head. My son would have none of it; what would he tell his friends?
We threw up a tarpaulin, changed into dry clothes and waited for the rain to abate. We gathered wet deadwood, pitched a sodden tent and examined the moist mass of our sleeping bags. We lit the fire, which smoldered into life. We hauled big rocks from the streamside for seats. We roasted marshmallows for dinner, chasing them down with peanuts. We drank piping hot bouillon and nursed the blaze long into the night, toasting our sneakers and talking to two campers who had arrived from the opposite direction.
They introduced themselves as Melvin and Patty Willenborg of Mechanicsville, Md., and they had been making real time. The purpose of their trip, they said, was to quickly scout the territory for a trip with their children at a later date. They advised against taking youngsters the entire length of the canal, saying the detour up north was too difficult.

THEY told us about passing through the Paw Paw Tunnel, a 3,118-foot-long burrow some 30 miles from the upper end of the canal, far past our destination on this trip. The path inside is only a few feet wide. Walking their bicycles, their way dimly lit by headlamps, they had just passed the midpoint when they heard the unmistakeable clop of hooves coming from the other direction. While horseback riding is permitted along the towpath, the animals are forbidden in the tunnel for reasons that became all too evident to the Willenborgs. Neither the cyclists nor the horses had room to turn around, and the bicycle lights were intensifying the beasts' anxiety. In pitch dark, the cyclists squeezed to one side as the animals brushed past. The campfire story could have impressed my son more only if the animals had been the reincarnated spirits of long deceased mules. By now the stars were out, and we lay down wearily in the damp.
The next morning was truly cold. We had not brought gloves, and my son wrapped his hands in socks as we backtracked to Antietam Creek.
By the time we left the canal path there, the sun was warming the paved roads, and as we struggled up steep hills toward the battlefield, the rising terrain created an exaggerated sense of the rising temperature.
The memory of the previous day's soaking at first lingered in my stiff bones, but by the time we reached our destination the autumnal brilliance of Antietam's vistas had rinsed the sensation away. We toured the battlefield, examining the cornfields where men fell in a gory harvest, the stone bridge over the creek where valor and despair mingled like blood and water. While we waited for my wife to arrive by car and retrieve us, my son and I examined relics in the battlefield museum. Cyclists call a trip of a hundred miles a century. We rode just 75 miles, but we had been back a century, a century and a half, and more.
 
Cycling the Chesapeake and Ohio
 
Getting There
The National Park Service operates information centers at Georgetown, Great Falls Tavern, Antietam Creek, Four Locks, Hancock and Cumberland. For general information write: Superintendent, Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park, Box 4, Sharpsburg, Md. 21782; 301-739-4200. Maps and books about the canal are available for sale, and a list of them is free, from the Parks and History Association, Post Office Box 40060, Washington, D.C. 20016; 202-472-3083.
 
Trail Guide
An indispensable trail reference with complete maps is the 50-page brochure, "184 Miles of Adventure: Hiker's Guide to the C.& O. Canal," published by the Boy Scouts of America. Available for $2.25, plus $1 postage, from the Boy Scouts of America Mason-Dixon Council, 1200 Crestwood Drive, Post Office Box 2133, Hagerstown, Md. 21742; 301-739-1211.
 
When to Go
 Wintertime leaves the upper stretches of the canal virtually deserted, and after a decent snowfall the towpath becomes a wonderful place for cross-country skiing. When the time comes for our first Nordic camping trip, the canal will be the place. A horseback ride would be ideal in the spring, although some parts of the park are off-limits to horses. Park rangers can give detailed rules and advice.
Cyclists will probably find the trail at its best in October. We chose the long Columbus Day weekend for our outing, knowing from experience that the trail sprouts bogs in the spring, and that mosquitoes thrive in nearby wetlands in summer. J. C. Jr.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A covered barge plies the canal, which runs from Washington to Cumberland, Md. The Canal in Georgrtown. Kayaker negotiates rapids at Great Falls on the Potomac River. (Photographs by Kit Kittle for The New York Times); Map of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); 

CITY: CUMBERLAND, MD, USA (92%); HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POTOMAC RIVER; MARYLAND; CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO CANAL

SUBJECT: BICYCLES AND BICYCLING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CANALS; NYTRAVEL; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); CYCLING (90%); CAMPING (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); CIVIL WAR (69%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



98 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 42; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: The Bonus Army Incident

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In a review of Kenneth C. Davis's "Don't Know Much About History" (Sept. 30), James M. Cornelius writes of the 1932 Bonus Army incident in Washington: "More than 100 were killed, including two infants. That is surely something we need to remember."
Actually, it should be quickly forgotten, because it is untrue. The violent dispersal of the unemployed Bonus Army veterans was certainly disgraceful, but although over 100 of the marchers were injured, there were just the two infant deaths.
 
WILLIAM MANCHESTER
Middletown, Conn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: DON'T KNOW MUCH ABOUT HISTORY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMIES (87%); INFANT MORTALITY (84%); VETERANS (84%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (82%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, KENNETH C; MANCHESTER, WILLIAM JAMES M CORNELIUS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



99 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Postings: 39 Units in Harlem;
Housing for the Handicapped

 BODY:
A nonprofit housing group in Harlem has begun construction of New York State's first apartment building in which every unit is designed for the blind, the deaf or people in wheelchairs. Formal groundbreaking for the building, Tweemill House, at the corner of 126th Street and Lexington Avenue, took place Monday.
The housing group, the Community Association of East Harlem, said the six-story, 39-unit building will have two elevators with control panels in braille, a round-the-clock security guard and a social worker assigned to the tenants. The tenants -- handicapped individuals or heads of families who qualify as low-income under Federal guidelines -- will pay 30 percent of their income in rent.
Tweemill House was first planned in 1983. The site was provided by New York City for $12,000 and the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal lent the group $98,000 in seed money. The turning point came in September, when, five years after its first application for Federal assistance, the Department of Housing and Urban Renewal approved a loan of $4.9 million, the building's projected cost.
Architects for the project, which is to be completed by the end of May, are Marlo & De Chiara of New York City. The building's name is a play on the name Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, a New York law firm that has advised the East Harlem housing group on a pro-bono basis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MILBANK TWEED HADLEY & MCCLOY LLP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY ASSN OF EAST HARLEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HARLEM (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HANDICAPPED REAL ESTATE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



100 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Will Undecided Voters Make Up State's Mind?

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
THE gubernatorial election is only two days away, but the ultimate disposition of voters like Lois Maxwell remains maddeningly unknown to the strategists for the three major candidates.
Ms. Maxwell, a 44-year-old department manager for the Hartford Insurance Group, is a registered Democrat who says she has not yet made up her mind. Her housemate, she said, is a registered Republican who has not made up his mind either. And while those two votes could probably be projected with some degree of confidence in an ordinary two-candidate race, Tuesday's ballot does not present the ordinary. 
 With three major candidates for governor competing across party lines, appealing for the loyalty of voters who, pollsters say, are tired of politics as usual and deeply anguished about the the economy, predictions about what people will do on Tuesday are underlined with uncertainty. The central problem, the prognosticators say, is that no one of the three candidates has developed a lock on any segment of the electorate.
The Democrat, for example, United States Representative Bruce A. Morrison of Hamden, has the support of some members of his party, while others have jumped party lines to support former United States Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr., a liberal Republican from Greenwich who jumped party lines himself to form a new organization, A Connecticut Party, as the vehicle to get his independent candidacy on the ballot.
Mr. Weicker, who in his 18 years in the Senate was repeatedly re-elected by a coalition of Republicans, Democrats and unaffiliated voters, has also siphoned votes from the Republican Party nominee, United States Representative John G. Rowland of Waterbury, despite Mr. Rowland's repeated assertions that Mr. Weicker is dishonest and greedy and that he would impose a state income tax if elected -- charges all vehemently denied by Mr. Weicker.
To voters like Ms. Maxwell, Mr. Morrison's appeals to party unity and tradition do not hold much sway. She voted for George Bush, a Republican, in the 1988 Presidential election, she said. And she said she likes the power of Mr. Weicker's personality and dislikes Mr. Rowland for his attacks on Mr. Weicker. But she said her vote will nonetheless remain up in the air, quite probably, until Election Day.
"It's a tossup between Morrison and Weicker," she said. "But I'm leaning toward Weicker. People are complaining about his ego, or that he's a self-serving politician. But I think you need that."
Politicians and academics say that the importance of the undecided group in Tuesday's vote -- at least in the gubernatorial race -- has been elevated by several factors. The first is a simple function of numbers. With three major candidates, the winner could take office in January having received well under 40 percent of the vote.
The low plurality needed for victory means that the roughly 15 percent of the respondents who said they were undecided in the three most recent public surveys, conducted in mid-to-late October, are that much more important. And if the mixture is expanded to include those people who said they were leaning toward one candidate but not committed, the total pool of soft or unknown votes reaches 30 percent or more. That is plenty, the experts say, to allow a swing in almost any direction.
"This race is still undecided," said Mr. Morrison, who has trailed in the opinion polls far behind Mr. Weicker and Mr. Rowland, but who would still be within striking distance if enough undecided votes fell his way. "All three candidates are in a position to win."
Supporters of Mr. Weicker argue that because the undecided group is made up largely of Democrats and unaffiliated voters, Mr. Rowland will get little of the swing vote, and Mr. Morrison will not get enough to propel him to victory. That leaves Mr. Weicker, who has led in the polls since he entered the race, as the theoretical winner. But campaign officials for Mr. Rowland and Mr. Morrison argue that since Mr. Weicker is one of the best-known politicians in the state, almost all of the undecided voters already know him very well and are still hesitant about supporting him. Those strategists argue that Mr. Weicker, who has retained his membership in the Republican Party, will get little of the undecided vote, and that the race will be decided by how Mr. Morrison and Mr. Rowland carve up those votes between them.
A fourth candidate on the ballot, Joseph A. Zdonczyk, representing the Concerned Citizens Party, has barely campaigned on his platform of opposition to abortion and is not expected to figure significantly in the final tally.
"The data shows us that when you have an incumbent or a very well-known candidate, the undecideds who are on the verge go to the lesser-known candidates," said the Democratic State Party chairman, John F. Droney Jr. "If people are undecided about him, they're not going to vote for him," he added, referring to Mr. Weicker.
But the race to succeed Gov. William A. O'Neill, a Democrat who chose not to run for a third term, is far from the only contest on the ballot. Voters will also make their choices for all the other statewide offices, including secretary of the state, treasurer, comptroller and attorney general.
 
Conventional Races
 Unlike the top race, however, most of those other contests offer a choice between a Democrat and a Republican. Other than Mr. Weicker's running mate for lieutenant governor, Eunice S. Groark, a Republican and former corporate counsel to the City of Hartford, A Connecticut Party has offered no other candidates.
Also to be filled are 36 seats in the State Senate and 151 seats in the State House of Representatives. The state's six seats in the United States House of Representatives are also up for grabs, including the Third District seat being given up by Mr. Morrison and the Fifth District seat now held by Mr. Rowland.
In the Third District, centered on New Haven, the Democrat, Rosa L. DeLauro, a longtime associate of United States Senator Christopher J. Dodd, faces Republican State Senator Thomas Scott. In the Fifth District, centered on Waterbury, a former Democratic Congressman, Toby Moffett, who gave up his seat in 1982 for a failed race against Mr. Weicker for the Senate, faces Gary A. Franks, a Republican alderman from Waterbury. If he is elected, Mr. Franks would be the first black Republican to hold a voting seat Congress since 1935.
Polls throughout the state are open from 6 A.M. to 8 P.M.
In all the races, but particularly in the battle for governor, public-opinion experts say that voter anguish over rising taxes and declining economic expectations will be the touchstone. The unknown is how those passions will be expressed.
"This is an environment where, if we had an incumbent, it would be straightforward -- the incumbent would lose," said Everett C. Ladd, a professor of political science at the University of Connecticut and director of the university's Institute for Social Inquiry, a polling organization.
With no incumbent, however, Professor Ladd said the issue for many voters may come down to deciding which of the candidates seems most likely to offer something really new, and which candidate ultimately seems like yesterday's news. The number of undecided voters, he said, makes it a tough call.
"There's a lot of people still floating around," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Democrat . . . 46 years old . . . lives in Hamden . . . defeated State Representative William J. Cibes Jr. in September primary . . . United States Representative since 1983 . . . former legal-aid lawyer . . . graduate of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Illinois, and Yale Law School . . . advocates a hiring freeze on state workers and borrowing and deferring some spending to cover the state's deficit . . . would support an income tax on wages only if a referendum showed the voters wanted it . . . favors abortion rights . . . favors life prison terms without parole instead of the death penalty (Bruce A. Morrison); Republican . . . 33 years old . . . lives in Waterbury . . . won Republican nomination by acclamation . . . United States Representative since 1985 . . . former State Representative . . . graduate of Villanova University . . . advocates cuts in state spending, including renegotiation of state contracts with labor unions, having workers pay part of health benefits and consolidating agencies to meet the deficit . . . opposes borrowing to tide the state over . . . opposes a state income tax on wages . . . opposes abortion but says people should decide for themselves . . . favors tougher death penalty and applying it todrug-gang leaders.
(John G. Rowland); A Connecticut Party . . . 59 years old . . . lives in Greenwich . . . remains a Republican but is running as an independent . . . United States Senator 1971-89 . . . former Congressman and State Representative . . . graduate of Yale University and University of Virginia Law School . . . advocates reducing corporation taxes to stimulate the economy and tax credits for research and for businesses that move into urban areas . . . opposes borrowing to bridge the budget gap . . . says the state does not want an income tax . . . favors abortion rights . . . opposes the death penalty except for killers of law-enforcement officers.
(Lowell P. Weicker Jr.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARTFORD INSURANCE GROUP OF CANADA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); BALLOTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; WEICKER, LOWELL P JR; ROWLAND, JOHN G (REPR); MORRISON, BRUCE A (REPR) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



101 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 12; Page 16; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Guide Dogs and Masters Practice on Familiar Turf

BYLINE: By CAROLYN BATTISTA

 BODY:
ELI walked briskly along Farmington Avenue, in West Hartford. He skirted the benches, trees and planters that dotted the sidewalk; he looked both ways before crossing the street. Kathryn Mobley held the strap to Eli's harness and followed him.
Ms. Mobley, who has been blind since childhood, was on a training walk with Eli, her new guide dog. "Eli's becoming part of my life," said Ms. Mobley, who is an assistant attorney general for the State of Connecticut. "This afternoon, we'll go to my office." 
 Ms. Mobley and Eli were matched by the Fidelco Guide Dog Foundation, in Bloomfield, the only guide dog training school in New England. One of only 10 such schools in the country, Fidelco is the only one that provides all training in the blind person's community.
At the other schools -- including the Seeing Eye Inc., in Morristown, N.J., and Guide Dogs for the Blind, in San Rafael, Calif. -- blind people stay for several weeks to train with their dogs. Officials at these schools said they found such residential programs to be most effective and economical.
 
Three-Week Program
 Fidelco, however, brings the dog and a trainer to the blind person's usual surroundings. "The Fidelco program is quite well regarded," said Steven Crecco, supervisor of mobility for the Connecticut Board of Education and Services for the Blind. "And as a total concept, I think it is unique."
A Fidelco trainer, Jan F. Bednarz, and an Fidelco apprentice, Mark J. Tyler, strode along the avenue with Ms. Mobley and Eli, occasionally giving instructions. "Keep in a straight line when you hear the traffic," advised Miss Bednarz.
The walk was part of a three-week training program that began with Eli's acclimation to Ms. Mobley's home in Wethersfield, progressed to quiet neighborhood walks and continued with visits to busier and more distant spots, like Farmington Avenue, lined with shops.
"Eli went to a church meeting with me last night," Ms. Mobley said. "And we went to a baby shower in a restaurant." Also scheduled were rides on the bus that Ms. Mobley takes home from work when her husband does not drive her, and a trip to New York City, where Ms. Mobley sometimes argues cases and attends meetings.
Ms. Mobley noted that she had worked for nearly a dozen years with another guide dog, from the Seeing Eye Inc., where she had attended a three-week training program. She liked the dog and the training, she said, but when the dog died recently, she faced a problem.
"Now my life style has changed," she said. "I didn't want to be away from my home and office for three weeks."
 
Custom-Tailored Training
 Fidelco's director of training, John Blyfield, noted that some blind people simply cannot leave such responsibilities as jobs or small children to attend residential schools. Fidelco can reach those people and can provide custom-tailored training, he said.
Andrea Giudice, a junior at the University of Connecticut, in Storrs, has had her Fidelco dog, Duchess, since her senior year in high school. "First we conquered Simsbury High, then we came up here" to the campus, she said.
Ms. Giudice, blind since birth, noted that Miss Bednarz helped her learn the layout of the UConn campus. "Now I give Duchess a series of commands that will get us to classes," she said, noting that Duchess knows how to behave everywhere -- in her dormitory, at shopping malls, at the movies.
James Waddington, of Darien, trained with his dog, Vegas, around town and on his commute to Manhattan, where he works for Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
"Vegas has become a seasoned commuter," said Mr. Waddington, who has always had severely limited vision. "He gets me to the station, onto the train and finds me a seat." Before he had Vegas, he used a cane, he said. "But that was extremely slow. I can get places much faster with Vegas. It's very satisfying to go at a more realistic pace."
He added that his office colleagues had welcomed Vegas with gifts, like a rug to lie on while Mr. Waddington works.
 
'Durability of Character'
 The founder and president of Fidelco is Charles H. Kaman, president of the Kaman Corporation, in Bloomfield, a company with diverse products, including helicopters and electric guitars. Mr. Kaman's wife, Roberta, is vice president of Fidelco and heads its breeding program.
Long interested in German shepherds, the Kamans said they began in the 1960's to develop a variety particularly suited to be guide dogs. Beginning with animals selected "for durability of character and health," Mr. Kaman said, the breeding produced intelligent, stable dogs that are a bit smaller than other German shepherds.
At first the Kamans donated their dogs to guide schools and police departments. After a trip to Germany, where they observed a trainer who brought guide dogs and instruction to blind people, they opened Fidelco's school in 1981 to bring similar training methods to New England and New York.
Fidelco's program includes raising puppies that are placed, at eight weeks of age, with families that help them get used to living and traveling with people. On Saturday mornings, the families also bring the dogs to Fidelco, in a modern building on the Kaman Corporation grounds, for basic obedience training.
At 14 to 18 months old, the dogs return to Fidelco for six to nine months of formal training, in locations from backyards to subways.
"We prepare the dogs in different environments," said Mr. Blyfield. And, noted Mrs. Kaman, the training keeps growing in complexity. "As blind people become more mobile, more demands are placed on the dogs," she said. "The dogs need to be up to the challenge."
Trained dogs are matched with people on Fidelco's waiting list. The school has placed about 200 dogs since 1981 and expects to place 40 this year. Each costs $17,500 to raise and train, but a recipient is asked for only $150. The nonprofit foundation's budget -- $1 million this year -- comes from fund-raising events and contributions from individuals and businesses.
One recent Fidelco graduate, Mark Morrissette, of the Mashantucket Pequot reservation in Ledyard, is undertaking his own fund-raising effort for Fidelco. Last year, at age 26, Mr. Morrissette was blinded by a cerebral hemorrhage.
When he lost his sight, "I lost faith in myself," he said. "I felt useless." he said. But after he received his dog, Barrett, and training from Fidelco, "they gave me mobility and a second shot at life," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jan F. Bednarz and Mark J. Tyler, employees of the Fidelco Guide Dog Foundation, as they worked with Kathryn Mobley and her new guide dog, Eli, in West Hartford.
 (Bill Burkhart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: GUIDE DOGS FOR THE BLIND ASSOCIATION (74%); FIDELCO GUIDE DOG FOUNDATION (91%); FIDELCO GUIDE DOG FOUNDATION (91%); GUIDE DOGS FOR THE BLIND (56%); GUIDE DOGS FOR THE BLIND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIDELCO GUIDE DOG FOUNDATION

SUBJECT: BLINDNESS; DOGS DOGS (94%); BLINDNESS (92%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); RESTAURANTS (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (56%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BATTISTA, CAROLYN CHARLES H KAMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



102 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 12; Page 13; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: WESTCHESTER GUIDE

BYLINE: By Eleanor Charles

 BODY:
LOCAL LENDING
 How local lending institutions might be persuaded to finance larger numbers of local small businesses, and other innovative methods of putting neighborhood entrepreneurs on a solid financial footing, will be explored in a program at the Wainwright House in Rye from 7:30 to 9:30 P.M. Friday and from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Saturday.
 The Friday lecture and Saturday workshop, "Using Local Resources for Local Needs: Bioregional Economics," are rooted in the work of the 
 E. F. Schumacher Society of Great Barrington, Mass. The society, founded in England on the ideas espoused in Mr. Schumacher's book "Small Is Beautiful," published in 1973 by Harper & Row, is dedicated to reversing the prevailing concept that large organizations are more efficient and produce a better product than small ones.
 Mr. Schumacher died in 1977 before elements of his vision materialized in the debacles caused by corporate takeovers in the 1980's.
 An American Schumacher Society was formed in 1980 by its current president, Robert Swann, who will conduct the lecture and workshop with Susan Witt, the director.
"In Westchester the key problem is affordable housing," Ms. Witt said. One of the society's programs for dealing with it elsewhere is a community land trust, a nonprofit development corporation that purchases land, builds housing with the sweat equity of the buyers and sells the houses but only leases the land to the new owner on a 99-year term, restricting the land use to low-cost housing.
 Another program supplies low-cost loans through a credit union to people who work with locally produced food: farmers, restaurants and wholesalers. "Production should occur out of local resources for local needs rather than transporting products for long distances," Ms. Witt said.
 "In rural areas there are still small, locally owned banks that are willing to finance small businesses," she said. "In other areas banks are required to re-invest a certain amount in their own area."
 Admission to the lecture is $10, admission to the workshop is $45 and the combination costs $50. Call 967-6080 for reservations or more information.
 
CRIME IN THE SUBURBS
 "Suburban crimes are the same as city crimes," said Kenneth Gribetz, District Attorney of Rockland County, "but to a lesser degree." He will give a talk titled "Crime in the Suburbs" at the New Rochelle Public Library Friday at 7:30 P.M.
 Much of the material will be based on cases that he prosecuted, outlined in a book he co-authored with Paul Jeffries, former news director at CBS-Radio. The book, "Murder Along the Way," was published last year by Pharos Books in Manhattan.
 "We are trying to break down stereotyped images that people in the suburbs have about narcotics and crime being an inner-city problem or a problem of the poor," he said. "They still don't believe that upper-middle-class youths are involved."
 Mr. Gribetz was assistant district attorney from 1972 to 1974, when he was elected to the post in which he has served for five consecutive terms. He was assistant district attorney in Manhattan from 1968 to 1972.
 While he has "no magic answer," he said, he will cite some of Rockland County's anti-crime efforts that have had positive results, including sensitizing training for police involved in domestic-violence cases, family shelters and intervention programs for batterers. Admission is free. Call 632-7878 for more information.
 
FIRST LADIES
 Page Hedden Wilson specializes in writing and performing dramatizations of America's First Ladies, and she will present a one-woman program called "Wives of the White House: Companions in Love," at the Greenburgh Town Hall today at 2:30 P.M.
 Her monologues catch Dolley Madison at the point of packing up and leaving Washington as the British approach and the White House is about to go up in flames; Mary Todd Lincoln in self-imposed isolation just before she was subjected to a public insanity hearing in court that was engineered by her son Robert; and Edith Wilson, dubbed by the press "The Iron Queen," having to decide whether she can assume her husband's presidential powers while he recovers from a stroke.
 Ms. Wilson has performed her work throughout the Northeast and in Scotland. The Greenburgh Town Hall is next to the library at 300 Tarrytown Road in Elmsford. Admission is free. Call 993-1610 for more information.
 
SCHOOLS AND HOLIDAYS
 The League of Women Voters has organized a forum on "The Dilemma of Religious Holidays in Our Public Schools," to address the issue of separation of church and state in terms of Christmas decorations, religiously inspired holiday music, arts and crafts that depict religious holiday symbols, and myriad traditional practices from an increasingly long list of denominational beliefs. The program is scheduled at 7:30 P.M. Wednesday in the Katonah Public Library on Route 117.
 Whether schools are actually promoting religions, celebrating them, inspiring tolerance, or educating those of one belief about other beliefs, are among the questions to be raised and discussed by a panel of religious, legal and educational professionals. They include Dr. Paul Kelleher, Superintendent of the Bedford Central Schools; Jessica Bacal, a Katonah lawyer, and clergymen from local Episcopal, Roman Catholic and Presbyterian churches and Jewish temples.
 Admission is free. Call 764-4345 for more information.
 
WOODPECKERS
 Woodpeckers, as many homeowners are aware, are terrific insect detectives. That telltale rat-a-tat-tat against the exterior siding is a sure sign that the woodpeckers are dining on an infestation of carpenter ants or some similar treat.
 The Greenburgh Nature Center is collecting data on Westchester's abundant supply of woodpeckers for a January exhibition that will draw attention to their crucial role in maintaining a balance in the forest ecosystem, and the importance of preserving their habitat. The fragmentation of suburban woodlands has already resulted in the disappearance of many native wildlife species.
 To help research material for the exhibition, the center is seeking the participation of woodpecker watchers at 10 A.M. Saturday when they will walk the grounds to identify various species of woodpeckers. They may expect to find downy woodpeckers, flickers, red-bellied and pileated woodpeckers, red-headed and black-backed, three-toed woodpeckers and yellow-bellied sapsuckers, under the guidance of a center naturalist.
 Admission to the walk is $2. The nature center is on Dromore Road off Central Avenue. For more information, call 723-3470.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GREAT BARRINGTON HEALTHCARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (84%); WHOLESALERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LIBRARIES (73%); TAKEOVERS (73%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (64%); RESTAURANTS (63%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



103 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 12; Page 4; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Raise Adopted for U.S. Workers

BYLINE: By States News Service

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FEDERAL workers in northern New Jersey will be receiving some financial relief now that Congress has passed legislation that ties government employees' salaries to living costs.
"In New Jersey, the Federal Government has become a training ground for the private sector, where salaries are as much as 30 percent higher for comparable, skilled positions," said Representative Dean A. Gallo, Republican of Parsippany-Troy Hills and an advocate of pay parity. "As a result, we are losing our most skilled employees and our middle managers, including engineers, F.B.I. agents and medical professionals." 
 In the last days of the 101st Congress, the House and Senate approved a bill that raises Federal salaries 5 percent annually across-the-board from 1992 through 1994. In addition, the bill calls for an 8 percent pay increase between now and fiscal year 1994 for Federal employees in three high-cost urban areas: Los Angeles, San Francisco and the New York metropolitan region, including portions of northern New Jersey.
In New Jersey, about 40,000 Federal workers will qualify for the 8 percent increase. They include nonpostal, white-collar workers in Essex, Bergen, Passaic, Morris, Hudson, Union, Somerset, Monmouth and Middlesex Counties. The increase was incorporated into the bill, titled the Federal Employees Pay and Comparability Act, after President Bush proposed financing to relieve workers in those high-cost areas in his 1991 budget.
 
Adjustment in 1994
 The legislation also calls on the Bureau of Labor Statistics to adjust pay for all Federal workers nationwide starting in 1994, based on comparable private sector salaries and regional living costs. In New Jersey, where a two-bedroom house in Hunterdon County can cost $160,000 or more, Federal workers said stagnant salaries had led to high turnover and five-hour commutes for some workers forced to live in more affordable areas, lik Pennsylvania.
"The nominal pay for Federal employees in this region is inadequate," said Ron McWold, a personnel officer for the Veterans Administration Medical Center at Lyons, in Somerset County, who has been active in the locality pay fight. Mr. McWold said V.A. sites in Lyons and East Orange had seen turnover rates as high as 25 percent in recent years, making it an uphill battle to hire nurses, occupational therapists and other medical personnel.
New Jersey's V.A. medical sites have increased salaries for some 80 percent of employees as a result of emergency pay increases from the V.A. in Washington, Mr. McWold said. But other New Jersey Federal workers, from customs inspectors to tax agents, have not been so fortunate.
"The last several years have been extremely frustrating, not only for myself but for other chiefs of personnel in other Federal agencies," Mr. McWold said. "And we now see an opportunity to increase wages and do what we are supposed to do: serve the public."
The legislation authorizes Congress to set aside $3.5 billion to bring Government salaries closer to private sector wages over the next three years. In 1994, an additional $1.8 billion will be made available to close the public-private gap even further.
 
Seen as Boosting Morale
 In Washington, the American Federation of Government Employees applauded the move, saying the legislation will bring Federal workers' salaries to within 95 percent of private sector salaries over the next 15 years. The legislation will boost morale among Federal workers and help combat recruitment and retention problems, said Diane S. Witiak, a spokeswoman for the federation.
"We feel that it's a major breakthrough in the process to reform what we term the crumbling Civil Service pay structure," Mrs. Witiak said. "And we hope that the legislation will provide a vehicle to not only stop the gap from increasing, but to close that gap."
Mr. Gallo said the 8 percent increase for North Jersey workers was "a major step forward." He has long pressed for pay increases for Government workers in high cost-of-living areas like New Jersey, he said, and has written his own locality pay legislation. Mr. Gallo said the bill Congress approved accomplished much of what his bill sought.
"I have been fighting for two years to arrive at a fair locality pay policy, and I believe that this plan meets most of my criteria for fairness," he said. "Private industry does not make the mistake of overpaying workers who live in Terre Haute, Ind., while starving those who work in high cost of living areas such as New Jersey."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EMPLOYEES CREDIT UNION (BETHANY, OKLAHOMA) (85%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (76%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (76%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; NEW JERSEY; SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); LOS ANGELES (CALIF); NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM) WAGES & SALARIES (93%); LEGISLATION (92%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STATISTICS (77%); HEALTH CARE (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); CITIES (73%); VETERANS (66%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (61%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (60%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



104 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 12; Page 4; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: N.R.C. Modifies Stand On Closing Shoreham

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
AS always with Shoreham, the legal decisions are slow and thick, but in a decision last month the Federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission appeared to be laying the groundwork for approving the decommissioning of the reactor.
The Long Island Power Authority hopes that by the end of the year Lilco's operating license can be demoted to a "possession only" status, for the radioactive material, and transferred to the New York Power Authority, so detailed planning can begin for the decommissioning. But those who want to preserve the reactor are minimizing the importance of the most decision. 
 The N.R.C., slicing a complicated issue thin, handed a victory to opponents of the plant by limiting the subject areas that an Environmental Impact Statement would have to cover before decommissioning could proceed. Opponents of the February 1989 settlement agreement, including the Department of Energy and the White House, had called for such a statement, which can take a year to prepare and can be subject to litigation afterward.
 
Independence of Agency
 Last month the Council on Environmental Quality, a White House office that enforces Federal agencies' compliance with environmental laws, sent a letter to the chairman of the N.R.C. saying that approving decommissioning would constitute a Federal action and that such actions have to be studied with such a statement. An impact statement would have to examine alternatives, the opponents said, including the alternative of running the plant.
But the five commissioners, who are appointed by the President but run an independent agency, carved out a narrow role for themselves.
"Lilco is legally entitled under the Atomic Energy Act and our regulations to make, without any N.R.C. approval, an irrevocable decision not to operate Shoreham," said the decision. Running the plant as a reactor or converting it to another fuel "are alternatives to the decision not to operate Shoreham and thus are beyond commission consideration," the five members added.
The decision noted that the case of the Shoreham case has taken the Commission into new ground, because approving a decision not to run a plant was not envisioned in the Atomic Energy Act.
What the commission would review, the decision said, was the method for decommissioning, not the underlying decision whether to run the plant. That alternative was beyond what anyone was required to consider in an environmental-impact statement, because running the plant would require a change in Government policy, the decision said.
At Scientists and Engineers for Secure Energy in Manhattan, a group that is suing to keep Shoreham alive, the executive director, Miro M. Todorovich, said he had found irony in the narrow approach of the N.R.C. When the Long Island Lighting Company was struggling to obtain an operating license for Shoreham, he said, the commission construed all issues broadly, slowing the process. Now, he said, it takes them bit by bit, without confronting the larger wisdom.
 
'The Watershed Decision'

Supporters of decommissioning see the new decision as a sign that Washington is beginning to step out of the way of decisions on the Shoreham Nuclear Power Station, and they said they saw a conclusion on the horizon.
"We believe that was the watershed decision," said Thomas A. Twomey Jr., a member of the Long Island Power Authority and chairman of its decommissioning committee. "We are very confident the license-transfer approval will be issued by N.R.C."
The commission might require the Long Island and New York Power Authorities to produce an Environmental Impact Statement on the method of decommissioning, he said. But he added, "We think that's unlikely."
On Wednesday the lawyer for two groups seeking to preserve the plant filed an appeal of the commission decision and tried to minimize it.
 
Anticipating Results of Study

James P. McGranery Jr., representing the Shoreham-Wading River School District and Scientists and Engineers for Secure Energy, said an Environmental Impact Statement could be very revealing, even if it did not consider operating the reactor.
"It would be able to set out all the costs, environmental and economic, of replacing Shoreham with the settlement agreement's proposed oil and gas plants, in contrast to the use of Shoreham," he said, adding that the decision had "nothing that would prevent us from putting all the relevant info before the public, so they can see what an atrocious proposal this is."
The appeal he filed argued, among other points, that the decision was "an abdication of the N.R.C.'s obligation to assure that its licensing decisions are consistent with protection of the environment."
The roles in the battle over the plant, which began 23 years ago, are now reversed. Opponents of the plant had used the skills of bureaucratic delay.
Now, according to Mr. Twomey, delay costs $8 million a month, mostly in labor costs, to preserve a reactor that will never run. The fuel is in the spent-fuel pool, and the reactor has been drained of water.
The Long Island Power Authority would like to put the fuel in dry casks, a method requiring less maintenance and fewer mechanical systems to assure safety and and leading to sharply lower costs. The hope is to sell the fuel to another utility, although there has been no market for slightly used fuel.
 
Specter of Iraqi War

Those who want to preserve the plant muse that if the standoff with Iraq turns to war, Shoreham may win another chance.
"If those wells in Kuwait become burning holes, we are ready to go to the President of the United States and ask that he simply declare that he has the power to put the plant into operation," said Dr. Todorovich.
Although many of the workers who would operate the plant have left, replacements could be found at other reactor sites, he said. "If it were the time of F.D.R. or Harry Truman, I know they would would quickly find the skillful operators in other places," he said.
Shoreham would save nearly 40,000 barrels of oil for each day it ran.
But Mr. Twomey said: "We think it's a remote scenario. It raises all sorts of constitutional issues that would be litigated for years and years and years."
 
Problems With Full Operation

Mr. McGranery said he was hoping that Shoreham would be given a stay of execution, in the form of a decision to do nothing. "Maybe in this case it would be appropriate to consider a mothballing, which would make the reactor available in case of future need," he said. Future events, he said, "might cause people to reconsider."
Others are also anxious to preserve the option to use the reactor to generate power. As recently as last month, the Energy Secretary, James Watkins, whose desk in Washington is marked with a bumper sticker reading, "Another Environmentalist for Nuclear Power," expressed hope that Shoreham would run.
But what little experience the civilian nuclear industry has with mothballed reactors is mostly bad. When the Three Mile Island 1 plant was shut for six years after the accident that destroyed Three Mile Island 2 in March 1979, technicians found extensive corrosion.
Another major problem is the workers' skills. Developing the teams of operators and technicians to run a plant usually takes years and begins long before construction is finished.
In addition, Three Mile Island 1 was under surveillance and maintenance for the shutdown, as is required under the operating license. At Shoreham, the Long Island Power Authority wants to end the expense of guarding, testing and staffing the plant, arguing that the money could be put into conservation or other activities.
If the license is transferred to the authority, even without the dismantling taking place. The authority is barred by law from operating a nuclear plant.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Miro M. Todorovich, executive director of Scientists and Engineers for Secure Energy in Manhattan.
(The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (94%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (91%); COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY (55%); COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (92%); ENERGY REGULATION (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



105 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Dislodging Incumbents Is Growing Harder

BYLINE: By FRANK LYNN

 BODY:
THE elections for six House of Representative seats on Long Island are more a matter of incumbent versus non-incumbent than Democrat against Republican.
Despite the Republican political coloration of the Island, Democrats hold four of the six seats, and that mix is not likely to change on Tuesday. The six incumbents have in common huge campaign war chests, while their opponents are underfinanced and seemingly unappreciated by their own parties. 
 The House, State Legislature and judicial races highlight Tuesday's election, in which New Yorkers also will select a governor and three other statewide officials. Four of the statewide candidates are Long Island residents, but all are decided underdogs.
Just as he did in 1986, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo is favored to sweep Long Island, thus providing a potential boost for other Democratic candidates. As for the Republicans, they are confronted with an admittedly weak state ticket headed by Pierre A. Rinfret, a ticket that could be further weakened by defections to Herbert London, the Conservative candidate for governor.
As a result, Republicans in both Long Island counties are downplaying Mr. Rinfret and promoting local Republican candidates and the Republican Party itself.
All polling places in both Nassau and Suffolk will be open on Tuesday from 6 A.M. to 9 P.M.
A total of 681,373 Nassau residents and 625,206 Suffolk residents are registered to vote. But politicians of both parties are fearful that as few as 50 percent of the Island's eligible voters will go to the polls. The conventional wisdom holds that a low turnout favors better-organized and -financed incumbents who can identify and "pull" their supporters to the election booths.
The breakdown of registered voters by party for both counties is:
NASSAU: Republican, 328,577; Democrat, 208,932; Conservative, 9,935; Liberal, 3,778; Right to Life, 2,217, and Independent, 123,408. Void and missing party designations account for the rest.
SUFFOLK: Republican, 275,135; Democrat, 158,754; Conservative, 15,274; Liberal, 3,537; Right to Life, 2,834, and Independent, 168,570.
Heading the ticket are the statewide candidates. They include:
*Bernard Smith of Northport, a former State Senator and District Attorney, who is the Republican-Conservative candidate for Attorney General.
*Anthony DiPerna of Smithtown, the Conservative candidate for Lieutenant Governor.
*Gertrude Manning of Baldwin and Robert F. Nolan of Huntington, the Right to Life candidates for Lieutenant Governor and Attorney General, respectively.
Voters in both counties will choose six State Supreme Court judges. They also will select District Court judges in both counties and three County and one Family Court judge in Nassau. Republicans dominate the judiciary in both counties.
Suffolk voters will also decide the future of two countywide Republican incumbents: Comptroller Joseph Caputo, who is opposed by Robert DeGregorio, and County Clerk Edward Romaine, whose Democratic opponent is County Legislator Sondra Bachety.
But most of the attention on the Island is centered on the highly visible Congressional races. There, the almost unassailable power of incumbents -- short of conviction or death -- is evident, just as it is in most parts of the country.
 
How Politicians View Suffolk
 Politicians of both parties view Suffolk as a particularly glaring example of the power of incumbency. This is because the county, which is predominantly Republican, has three resident Democratic Congressmen, or more than Manhattan or the Bronx, the supposed Democratic strongholds.
The three are Representatives George Hochbrueckner of Coram, Thomas J. Downey of Amityville and Robert J. Mrazek of Centerport. All three started out by barely winning their first terms and then becoming the targets of strong challenges for the next election or two.
Mr. Downey, seeking his ninth term, is considered even by Republicans to be unbeatable. Mr. Mrazek, seeking his fifth term, is rated a very heavy favorite, while Mr. Hochbrueckner, running for his third term, is now moving into the nonmarginal category.
In 1988, when he defeated Mr. Romaine, the County Clerk, Mr. Hochbrueckner won with only 51 percent of the vote. But this year, Republicans could not persuade any well-known officeholder to challenge Mr. Hochbrueckner and his $600,000 campaign treasury.
James Needham, a former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission, was eventually nominated, but he dropped out of the race in mid-July, leaving party leaders in the lurch.
A second search, with various Republicans again publicly rejecting the nomination, ended with a politically unknown and underfinanced retired Army officer, Francis W. Creighton of Jamesport, as Mr. Hochbrueckner's opponent in the First Congressional District. It extends from Brookhaven eastward to the end of the Island.
 
A 'Boy Wonder' at 25
 Mr. Downey, once a boy wonder as a Suffolk County legislator and first elected to the House at age 25, is now the seventh-ranking majority member of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, which handles tax legislation.
He won with 62 percent of the vote in 1988, and even Republicans anticipate similar results against another Republican neophyte making his maiden run, John W. Bugler of Oakdale.
An engineer with the State Department of Transportation, Mr. Bugler also was "drafted" after several better-known Republicans declined to take on Mr. Downey and his $700,000 war chest.
In the Third Congressional District, which stretches along the North Shore from Smithtown to Port Washington, the election has the same cast as in 1988. In that contest, Mr. Mrazek defeated Robert Previdi, a Manhasset bank executive, with 57 percent of the vote.
Unlike other losers who usually lick their wounds rather than run again immediately, Mr. Previdi started his current campaign two years ago.
He has raised nearly $200,000 and is trying to capitalize on the unusually strong anti-incumbent sentiment that has shown up in polls across the country. Mr. Mrazek, usually less of a big spender and fund-raiser than his two Democratic colleagues, is likely to double Mr. Previdi's campaign kitty.
 
Incumbent's Liberalism Scored
 Like the two other Republican aspirants for the House, Mr. Previdi has built his campaign on the theme that the incumbent is too liberal for his constituents and has not done enough for the defense industry, which is critical to the Long Island economy.
Although the Nassau Republican Party is known for its fat treasury and ability to raise money, it has provided little cash for Mr. Previdi because, party leaders said, of the restrictions of the Federal campaign finance law.
Mr. Previdi has a Democratic counterpart in the Fifth Congressional District in Nassau, where a first-time candidate, Mark Epstein, an environmental lawyer, has raised $200,000 to finance an aggressive campaign against Representative Raymond J. McGrath.
Mr. McGrath, who is seeking his sixth term, won with 65 percent of the vote in 1988. The district covers southwestern Nassau.
Mr. Epstein has emphasized his environmental background and his support of abortion rights and gun control, issues that make this campaign more ideological than the others. But he has also criticized Mr. McGrath for what Mr. Epstein calls taxpayer-financed junkets as a member of the House Ways and Means Committee.
Embarrassingly close to the election, both Mr. McGrath and Mr. Downey were targets of an ABC-TV documentary on their recent trip to Barbados, together with their wives, at taxpayer expense. Both were secretly photographed at leisure, not at work, under the sun.
 
A Repeat Challenge to Lent
 In the adjacent Fifth Congressional District covering southeastern Nassau, Francis T. Goban of Hicksville, a plastics engineer and business executive, is challenging for the second time Representative Norman F. Lent, a Republican who won with 70 percent of the vote in 1988.
Mr. Goban, who has no illusions about his chances, expects to spend less than $5,000. Ironically, he is a member of the Coalition to End the Permanent Congress which, among other things, favors a ban on political action committee contributions. Such donations are major factors in the war chests of all six Long Island Congressmen.
The sixth House member, James H. Scheuer, represents a district, the Eighth, that is mostly in Queens and the Bronx. Many politicians expect the district to be eliminated in the redrawing of Congressional and Legislative district lines next year.
Mr. Scheuer's district includes a slice of Nassau in the Kings Point area. He was unopposed in 1988, and in 1986 he defeated Gustave Reifenkugel of Queens, a retired businessman, with 90 percent of the vote. Mr. Reifenkugel is running again, with even his own supporters anticipating a similar result.

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Hochbrueckner; Thomas J. Downey; Robert Mrazek; Raymond J. McGrath; James H. Scheuer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); JUDGES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (84%); POLITICS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); FAMILY COURTS (60%); FAMILY LAW (60%); 

PERSON: LYNN, FRANK

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



106 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut and Westchester;
A French Firm With a Nose for Bargains

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
IN contrast to the British, Japanese and Canadian real-estate concerns pouring millions into this country in the last decade, few French firms have moved in.
A notable exception is Auguste-Thouard, a leading full-service real estate concern founded in Paris in 1922. And, in another divergence from the foreign investment crowd, it has shunned high-profile markets like midtown Manhattan and concentrated on hunting for bargains in industrial suburbs. 
 The reason has nothing to do with the firm's size. Auguste-Thouard's revenues from 25 regional offices in France total some $2 billion a year. In the last decade, it has established branches in the United States, Spain, England and Germany, and one is to open soon in Italy.
Its Manhattan office opened in 1982.
"At that time the socialists came to power in France," said Alain Lebleu, president of the American branch, which moved its headquarters to 39 Lewis Street in Greenwich in 1986. "It created a kind of paralysis. Earnings were down, companies were losing money, interest rates and taxes were high. The idea of expanding overseas was beginning to emerge in the French mentality."
 Today, with a square foot of commercial property on Avenue Montaigne in Paris priced at $1,200, compared to $400 a foot on Manhattan's Fifth Avenue, it is not surprising that France's real estate companies are reaching out.
 With the purchase of a 155,000-square-foot building in Shelton in January, Auguste-Thouard now owns about 500,000 square feet of commercial and industrial buildings, valued at about $50 million, on Long Island, and in Westchester County and Connecticut. The latest acquisition, put up by ITT in 1981 at 1 Research Drive off exit 12 of Route 8, affirms its interest in the Route 8 corridor.
Once Connecticut's industrial heartland extending from Bridgeport to Waterbury, the area is slowly reviving. Other buildings that Auguste-Thouard acquired and renovated in Derby and Trumbull are rented to small manufacturing firms. The two-story ITT building on 15 acres is the company's largest project to date in this country.
"It's a wonderful site overlooking the Trap Falls Reservoir," said William Leroy, Mr. Lebleu's American partner. But the building, he added, was badly designed and had deteriorated.
 The cracked pressed-concrete exterior was torn off and replaced with 8- by 30-foot panels of salmon pink and mocha ceramic tile. It was an unorthodox choice for a commercial structure, but the best alternative for complying with zoning regulations that, as a precaution against earthquake damage, prohibit adding more than 5 percent to the weight of an existing building.
INSIDE was a vast warren of ITT research cubicles, which Auguste-Thouard demolished, leaving open floor space that tenants may subdivide. The main entrance is at the back, confusing visitors who have to approach a blank wall from the road. It will be replaced by a new entrance on Research Drive.
Other major elements in the $3 million renovation include a glass-ceilinged atrium restaurant and a day-care center.
 ITT sold the building in 1986 to Alcatel, a French telecommunications company that resold it to Auguste-Thouard in 1988.
"Other buyers were interested," said James Fagan, the Coldwell Banker realtor who handled the transaction, "but they couldn't get financing. We went with Auguste-Thouard because we knew they would deliver. They were willing to make a large, nonrefundable down payment and they had the cash to close the deal."
 After eight months of negotiations, the company got the building for $5.6 million. The asking price had been $12 million.
 Auguste-Thouard is financed by Credit Chimique and Caisse Centrale des Banques Populaires, two French banks it has dealt with for decades. "They don't know this market," said Mr. Lebleu, "so they trust us to do so. We are glad to have them, because we don't know whether American banks would do business with us."
 The company is pursuing in America the same policy it said made it attractive to banks in France: avoiding hot markets, bargaining hard, sticking to properties it considers underpriced -- even if it has to renovate them heavily -- and borrowing as little of the purchase and construction costs as possible.
"One typically American thing that we have not done is over-leverage our investments," said Mr. Leroy.
Mr. Lebleu declined to say how much was borrowed for the ITT building, but added: "It is far less than the full amount."
Five years ago, when the building boom was in full swing, the two men decided New York City's suburbs would be their turf.
"We decided to focus on nondescript industrial-commercial properties that had no glitz, but nevertheless met a demand, in good locations, expandable, and adaptive to another use," said Mr. Lebleu. "Our observations led us to renovate existing buildings rather than buy raw land and build, because it is tougher and tougher to get approvals for new construction, especially in the Northeast."
 The ITT building was already zoned for mixed office and light manufacturing, and the site can accommodate 250,000 more square feet. When it reopens this spring, unfinished space ranging from 8,000 to 100,000 square feet will be offered at prevailing local rentals, which are now $13 to $15 a square foot. Gas heat will replace the oil furnace and a French air-conditioning sytem will save energy by freezing small ice balls during off-peak hours at night, then using them for cooling during the day.
 Fletcher Thompson, the Bridgeport architectural-engineering firm that designed the renovations, will be available to design and complete tenant spaces.
SHELTON has too much office space already, but Elaine Liberto, director of development, said the demand for manufacturing and research space is strong.
 Mr. Fagan feels that Shelton is a sensiblelocation for large users of back-office space.
"It has affordable housing, which Stamford does not," he said, "and when someone is looking for 50,000 square feet, Stamford doesn't make sense because of the expense."
 Looking to the future, Mr. Lebleu says: "We are not anxious to buy heavily. We are very selective, small, and maybe the French are more cautious. There are no gimmicks in real estate as there are in manufacturing cars. It performs well when you do it professionally, quietly, with input from the right architects."

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Drawing of former ITT building in Shelton after renovation for Auguste-Thouard, French realty concern. (Fletcher Thompson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SPAIN (79%); ENGLAND (58%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: AUGUSTE-THOUARD

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ZONING (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



107 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 12; Page 26; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Sallies Fly at a Bronx Gallery

BYLINE: By VIVIEN RAYNOR

DATELINE: THE BRONX

 BODY:
HUNTS POINT may be to greater New York what Les Halles was to Paris, but picturesque it is not. Then again, there is something exhilarating about this large tract with its strung-out warehouses and auto-glass dealers and coveys of tractor-trailers.
Nevertheless, the art that traditionally proceeds urban redevelopment has long been at hand in the form of the Krasdale Foods Gallery and this, directed by Sigmund Balka in cooperation with the Lehman College Art Gallery, is growing ever more ambitious. Its second outdoor sculpture exhibition is imminent and a Krasdale gallery "II" is scheduled to open in White Plains next year. 
 The present show of paintings, sculpture and works on paper by 42 artists is ambitious enough in that it investigates -- to quote the title -- "Humor, Satire and Irony." Acting as an overture to this is a group of painted lifecasts that properly belongs to the forthcoming sculpture display. Taken from South Bronx residents by John Ahearn and Rigoberto Torres, the busts, smiling and straight-faced, hang high on a wall in the ground-floor lobby, observing the "game" of business as if from the bleachers.
On the second floor, where the show begins in earnest, are posted guidelines for distinguishing between humor, satire and irony. But they aren't meant as cue cards because few of the works fit just one category. Nor should visitors worry when the sallies elude them, for some require a background in art history to be appreciated while others are dated (the miscellany spans more than 60 years) or else downright obscure. In other words, this is a salad bar where visitors may graze as they wish.
At the more literal end of the spectrum are canvases like those by Jerry Kearns and Sidney Goodman. An image that looks printed rather than painted, Mr. Kearns's combines the head of an Indian brave in red with horses galloping through water in blue and black. The irony -- or is it satire? -- is in the title, "Manhattan Project No. 2025." Mr. Goodman's "Western Drive" is a painting that is straight Southwestern landscape under a lowering sky except for a few details. One is the huge ultramodern building perched incongruously on the mesa at center stage; others are the posts among the cattle in the foreground that augur more construction. An alternative title might be "Apocalypse Any Minute Now."
Admirable as their intentions are, these artists seem concerned with proclaiming their own earnestness rather than the plight of their subjects. Even Goya knew to leaven moralizing with humor. Rodney Alan Greenblatt is no Goya but he gets nearer the mark with his cartoon in wood of a jugheaded youth who looks at a loss as he sits among garbage that may be of his own making.
At a guess, Paolo Pelosini's female torsos cut from crumpled metal and placed on filing cabinets are comments on the dehumanizing effect of the "system." Faith Ringgold's portrait of the Carter family as soft dolls is perfectly clear -- note the sequins that make the former President's eyes sparkle. Ms. Ringgold should be retained as official artist to the White House.
John Sloan holds his own in the cartoon department with etchings proving that tourists and connoisseurs of art were every bit as fatuous in 1927 and 1905 as they are now. All the same, nothing reflects a time more accurately than humor, and the influence of Surrealism, itself a report on human disintegration, is very obvious in the more recent ironies.
Alive, Max Ernst became famous after World War I with his bizarre collages; dead, he is everywhere in this show. The master's deadpan spirit is especially noticeable in Larry Blizard's lithograph of bananas caught, flagrante delicto, in a hotel bed, the clothes they never wore scattered on the floor, a banana version of Manet's "Dejeuner sur L'Herbe" hanging on the wall.
It is also in William Wegman's mock daguerreotype of his Weimaraner, Man Ray, playing a piano with the help of a squirrel and, again, it is present in a lithographed drawing of a man standing in a flooded room. The work of Glen Baxter, a New Yorker cartoonist, this is captioned "I would have chosen carpet for the hall. But clearly Brenda had other ideas."
Bernarda Bryson tackles political phoniness (circa 1935); William Gropper, legal lassitude (1969). In his pair of three-dimensional lithographs, Red Grooms has sport with, respectively, Little Italy and Salvador Dali. Barbara Marco sums up life in her collage of three cans labeled "sex," "power" and "money." Gary Bachman does the same with two large Pop paintings of an explosion containing the word "new." They are identical except that one panel is rimmed with flashing lights to draw attention to the "improved" that has been added to the "new."
On view through Dec. 18, this show is provocatively good but those wondering if art can be funny and still remain art are advised to check their concern at the door. Krasdale Foods is at 400 Food Center Drive and, as usual, prospective visitors must call before coming (212) 378-1100, extension 2125.
There is humor, too, in "Current Events" -- with a title like that how could there not be? But the tone is politically sardonic, as well it might be at the Bronx River Center and Gallery which, being a storefront at 1087 East Tremont Avenue, is closer to the front lines than Krasdale.
Still, the best work in the show is almost folk art, namely Peter Gourfain's banner mourning the late prime minister of Grenada, Maurice Bishop. A highly partisan work, it shows Bishop standing at the left and surveying Grenada's progress under his administration. New houses cluster among palm trees; a fishing fleet plys in blue water; and the famous airport is under construction.
A schoolteacher writes on a blackboard, "We are a light to the poor of the Caribbean." Painted in clear, strong colors outlined in black, figures and scenery mingle with words and the whole thing flows in an orderly fashion from one end of the banner to the other, recalling African compositions carved in wood.
Other striking works are Tenesh Webber's black-and-white photograph of a female squatter who stands in front of a newly wrecked building symbolizing the downscale side of the East Village, and the relief-painting, "Silver Curtains," by Rikki Asher. Done in bright metallic colors, this consists of three raised chevrons painted with thick serpentine strokes laid on a background that is executed in larger rhythmical dabs of impasto. Organized Abstract Expressionism is one way of describing this. Also worthy of attention is Diane Townsend's abstraction of many rectangles, shiny and matte, illuminated by one of creamy white.
The humor, such as it is, can be found in Willie Birch's "Solid State Racism Is on the Rise" and "Your Time Is Up" by George Smith. The first is a crudely simulated television beaming a blond anchorwoman and symbols of the Ku Klux Klan and decorated on the back with relief of a lynching party. The second is Uncle Sam, carved, African style, wearing clothes of red, white and blue but hair that is made of straw.
The show closes Saturday; gallery hours are 3:30 to 6 P.M. Tuesdays through Fridays; 1 to 6 P.M. Saturdays.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Tya Scott," above, a photograph by Tenesh Webber on display at the Bronx River Center and Gallery. "Siesta Time at the Tub of Blood," below at left, by George Luks, and "Nightmare No. 2" by Kathy Freeman at the Krasdale Foods Gallery in Hunts Point (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: KRASDALE FOODS GALLERY; BRONX RIVER CENTER AND GALLERY

SUBJECT: ART; ART SHOWS; REVIEWS SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (77%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); ART HISTORY (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: RAYNOR, VIVIEN

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



108 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 57; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Campus Life;
Asian Languages Gain A Growing Following

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
With the emergence of Japan and Korea as world economic powers, East Asian languages are getting more attention at universities across the nation.
The University of Chicago, the University of Wisconsin at Madison and the University of California at Berkeley have long offered a wide assortment of languages. Now they are among a growing number of schools offering more classes and spending more money on Asian languages, particularly Japanese and Korean. 
 Student interest in foreign languages in general has increased in recent years, but the largest increase has involved Asian languages, administrators say.
"The biggest change in the language picture has been the Eastern languages," said Richard Strier, master of the humanities collegiate division at the University of Chicago. "The most serious crowding we've had was in Japanese and Korean last year."
Data being collected by the National Foreign Language Center, an independent research organization based at Johns Hopkins University, shows that enrollment in Japanese language study has risen 68 percent since 1986 at the 171 colleges surveyed.
 
Decline in French
 Jonathan Wolff, a research associate for the center, said that about 50 of the 171 schools had begun offering courses in Japanese since 1986. At schools with more established programs, Mr. Wolff found that classroom space and teaching staffs as well as annual budgets are being strained by increased student demand.
At the University of Chicago, since the 1985-86 academic year, the number of courses in Japanese has increased to 5, from 2, while the number of language courses in French fell to 9, from 17. During that time, the university's overall enrollment increased and a stiffer language requirement was instituted.
Over the last year at Chicago, the number of introductory and intermediate language courses has remained the same in every area except for French, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish, which decreased, and Japanese, in which two sections were added.
Geoffrey Cox, director of financial planning and budgets at Chicago, said that while the total language budget is up 93 percent from 1985, the increased costs in Asian languages has been partly offset by increasing the teaching load of graduate student instructors and professors.
Columbia University, which has one of the oldest Asian studies departments in the nation, is paying for its program, in part, by attracting more outside gifts. In particular, gifts from Japanese donors are on the rise, said Paul Anderer, acting dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and an East Asian language professor.
 
Classes for Koreans
 At Berkeley, the Oriental Languages Department "can't accommodate all the students who want to take the courses" in Japanese, said Jeffrey Riegel, chairman of that department.
Eric Broque, assistant provost for administration and budget in the College of Letters and Science at Berkeley, said that the budget for Oriental languages is up 10 to 20 percent in the last 10 years, while Romance languages have seen a "modest inflationary growth" of 4 to 6 percent.
The University of Wisconsin at Madison has been cutting undergraduate enrollment in the last five years to decrease class sizes and make the school more selective. This has led to considerably lower instructional budgets in Romance languages: 20 percent lower in French and Italian and 30 percent lower in Spanish and Portuguese.
But in East Asian languages and literatures, the budgets have been increased 75 percent since 1980 and 30 percent since 1985. There have been smaller increases in Semitic languages, African languages, Scandinavian studies, classics, Slavic languages and South Asian languages.
 
Second-Generation Koreans
 Administrators at all three universities pointed to growth in Korean language classes, which they related to the recent influx of second-generation Koreans who often are able to speak Korean but unable to write it.
The University of Chicago introduced Korean in 1985 to meet demand from Korean students, who now make up the university's largest ethnic minority. When Yale introduced Korean to its curriculum this semester, 52 students enrolled, forcing the department to add two extra sections to the one originally planned.
In contrast, most of the students enrolled nationwide in Japanese studies are not of Japanese descent. Mr. Strier at Chicago and Mr. Riegal at Berkeley attributed the increase to growing interest in Japanese culture and international business.
But Akira Miura, a professor of East Asian languages and literatures at Madison, said that the practical concerns prompting students to study Japanese are not often enough accompanied by a cultural interest.
He foresees a "stagnating pool" of new Ph.D.'s in the area because the number of people studying elementary Japanese is not matched by the number interested in teaching it.
"It's really not that interesting to teach people only interested in business," Mr. Miura said. He said he would rather teach people interested in "Japan as a country, not just Japan as a business."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN LANGUAGES (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN; UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (BERKELEY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; KOREAN LANGUAGE; JAPANESE LANGUAGE LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



109 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: We Don't Have to Like Rap Music, but We Need to Listen

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We music business executives are increasingly debating ethics. Though we generally engage in less esoteric dialogue, recent controversies have focused our attention on philosophical issues confronting our industry.
Even as 2 Live Crew was acquitted of obscenity charges in Florida, parents' groups continue to pressure record companies to delete objectionable materials; outraged members of the artistic community demand creative autonomy, and we are left to ponder our values and responsibilities in light of the types of music we manufacture and distribute.
Yet amid all the legal activity, the lobbying, the label stickering and talk of the First Amendment, there is an elemental aspect of the situation that deserves more attention: what the music in question is telling us.
Rap music provides a window to our urban culture. Through it we can gauge the realities of life in our inner cities, which would otherwise be obscured, realities that are deeply troubling. To listen is to hear angry and disaffected voices, that are too often comfortable with violence and drunk on machismo. To listen is to hear from a population desperately in need of attention, slipping headlong into despair and destruction.
Almost 30 years ago, Michael Harrington wrote of the other America, the underclass in this country that lives in the shadows of high-rise society. Since then, the gulf between the two Americas has widened to new levels of disproportion. Never has the sting of poverty seemed so fatal; never has poverty seemed so insurmountable. Yet there is music sounding out from this other America, and its message is cautionary, filled with information, warning and, yes, rage.
We may wish that the music contained no violent allusions, hateful connotations or antisocial messages, but we live in a disturbing world. While we may prefer the old melodic standards to today's syncopations, we must face the fact that this is not a world of "polka dots and moonbeams," but a fractured society battling social and economic problems.
The music can be frightening. It is angry and subverts aspects of order. It is violent and hard to understand absolutely. Much of modern life is like that. Music and its lyrics reflect a reality that can't be censored. One can work to keep from being reminded of it, but it is there.
Our eyes must be open; our ears must be open. We must confront that reality, however it may offend or disturb.
 
ROBERT J. MORGADO
Executive Vice President
Warner Communications
New York, Oct. 26, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); ETHICS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); MUSIC (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CENSORSHIP (72%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); OBSCENITY (57%); 

PERSON: EDWARD MICHAEL 'MICHAEL' HARRINGTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



110 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Gorbachev Steers Middle Course on Lithuania

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "To Oslo, Via Vilnius" (Op-Ed, Oct. 17), John Budris says that few in Lithuania celebrated news of Mikhail S. Gorbachev's Nobel Peace Prize.
President Gorbachev's embargo of Lithuania, an action usually considered a form of economic warfare, was a moderate course. The policy signaled his refusal to yield outright to secessionist pressures, while he avoided a costly exercise in martial law and presidential rule. Moreover, it was probably the only course that would not jeopardize perestroika.
The imposition of an economic blockade to force Lithuania to follow the rules on seceding allowed Mr. Gorbachev to tell the left that he did not oppose secession (as long as it was handled legally) and to show the right that he was not about to let Lithuania (or any other republic) walk away from the Soviet Union.
Paradoxically, despite the damage to Lithuania's economy, and the delaying of Lithuania's sovereign aspirations, the imposition of an economic blockade will be seen as a good policy. By not imposing presidential rule, by not using the military to crush "counterrevolution" and by preventing the Soviet Union from imploding into chaos, President Gorbachev has increased the likelihood that the political and economic gains of perestroika will continue. By choosing embargo, Mr. Gorbachev has kept the Soviet Union on the path of peaceful reform -- social, economic and political.
How should we judge Mr. Gorbachev's Lithuanian policy? Winston Churchill supposedly remarked that he did not become the king's first minister to oversee the dismantling of the British Empire. In this same vein must Mikhail Gorbachev's actions on Lithuania be seen. As the first President of the Soviet Union, he designed his Lithuania policy to promote and protect the policy of perestroika, thereby assuring that the first Soviet president would not be the last.
 
NATHANIEL RICHMOND
Asst. Professor of Political Science
Utica College, Syracuse University
Utica, N.Y., Oct. 23, 1990

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of a technical error, the authors of two articles on last Sunday's Op-Ed page were not identified. John Creed is an assistant professor of journalism at the Chukchi Campus of the University of Alaska; Irving Howe is a co-editor of Dissent and a member of the American Federation of Teachers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (97%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: UTICA, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LITHUANIA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NOBEL PRIZES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); 

PERSON: RICHMOND, NATHANIEL (PROF); BUDRIS, JOHN; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



111 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Senators Urge Bush to Lift Vietnam Embargo

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and seven other Democratic and Republican Senators have written to President Bush requesting the lifting of the 15-year-old trade embargo on Vietnam.
The letter comes at a time when the Administration is slowly building relations with Vietnam, having recently opened talks with Hanoi to help resolve the Cambodian civil war and reinvigorating joint efforts to identify and return American servicemen still unaccounted for from the Vietnam War.Two weeks ago, the Vietnamese Foreign Minister, Nguyen Co Thach, became the first Vietnamese official of Cabinet rank to visit Washington since the war. 
 The chairman of the committee, Senator Claiborne Pell, Democrat of Rhode Island, and Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, who is probably the most influential Republican in the Senate on foreign policy matters, complimented the Administration's efforts "for the expansion of contacts," but said it was time to quicken the improvement.
"The time has come for putting the Vietnam War behind us and opening anew chapter in U.S.-Vietnam relations," said the letter of Oct. 29, which was also signed by Senators Alan Cranston, Democrat of California, Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, John F. Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, Frank H. Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, and Mark O. Hatfield, Republican of Oregon. "We urge you to act promptly to lift the U.S. trade embargo on Vietnam and we pledge our full support."
The Administration had no immediate comment on the letter. It has consistently said normalization of diplomatic and economic relations canoccur after Vietnam helps account for 1,677 American servicemen still listed as missing and the Cambodian civil war is settled.
Washington has urged Hanoi, the primary backer of the Cambodian Government, to push Phnom Penh to join three guerrilla groups in an interim coalition Government until United Nations-sponsored elections can be held.
The letter from the Senators said the Administration was mistaken to link the Cambodian conflict to an improvement in relations with Vietnam.
"We should not allow the prolonged end game in the Cambodian peace negotiations to prevent us from taking the next step of lifting the trade embargo with Vietnam," it said. "Conclusion of a comprehensive peace in Cambodia, establishment of a substantial U.N. presence, and conduct of free andfair elections in war-torn Cambodia could take years."
The Senators wrote that they were not entirely satisfied by the Vietnamese position on the war dead and prisoners of war, but that "we have seen considerable progress in recent months."
The letter continued: "In addition, we are heartened by the significant support for market economic principles that has been demonstrated by some members of the Vietnamese Government. These developments warrant a significant U.S. response."
The letter should reinforce increasing pressure from a growing number of American business executives and economists who argue that Vietnam could become a significant trading partner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (97%); VIET NAM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (57%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (50%); AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (50%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (50%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); PEACE PROCESS (64%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; PELL, CLAIBORNE (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); DICK LUGAR (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); LISA MURKOWSKI (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



112 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Bleak Days for British Banks

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
AS a group, British bank stocks have been among the world's best performers in the banking sector this year, far outstripping their counterparts in the United States. Five of the top 10 banks in S. G. Warburg Securities' index of world bank stocks are British. And five of the nine major banks in England have outperformed the British stock market.
But much of this performance was built on overly optimistic earnings forecasts earlier in the year and large dividend increases this summer. The bigger payouts look more than a little generous after the economic fallout from the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and dividend cuts by several major American banks. 
 What's more, the stocks have performed unevenly. Only two, Abbey National Bank and TSB, have actually risen. The other "good" performers have simply declined less than the rest of the British market.
Now, reality -- and probably a recession -- are settling in. Last month's bank stock rally after Britain joined the European Monetary System and cut interest rates ended quickly. Last week, Barclays de Zoete Wedd, the London-based securities firm, sharply downgraded the earnings estimate for its parent company, Barclays Bank, and for National Westminster. It plans to do the same for Lloyds Bank, the third of the four big clearing banks. The forecast for the fourth, Midland, has already been cut sharply. These downgradings followed the surprisingly poor earnings reported for the sector in August.
"You could bring your forecast down almost every day," said Julian Robins, the firm's bank analyst for Britain, reflecting on the deteriorating economic outlook as business failures continue to rise.
Most of the bank sector should be off limits for investors, many analysts now say. If you are not in, stay out, they warn; if you are in, look for the opportunities to sell. Even the stocks that have fallen the most are not ready to be plucked up because more declines are expected.
Some banks, like Midland and Standard Chartered, have very attractive dividend yields that outperform the bond market. But analysts take these yields as warning signs of troubles ahead. Some even think the unthinkable -- that a British bank may actually cut its dividend; Standard Chartered is the best bet to do that. Other analysts just expect the increases next year to be much smaller.
And provisions for bad loans, which made the August results for most banks so dismal, are rising, as is the index for company failures. Even Abbey National, the bank that is still widely recommended, might be expensive now as the flight to quality this year has already pushed its stock up by 16 percent.
Abbey's secret is that it just recently converted from a building society to a bank. This means that all of its loans are mortgages, leaving it unexposed to the commercial and personal loans that are beginning to go sour. TSB has a somewhat similar advantage, with about 40 percent of its loans in mortgages.
Of the big banks, Barclays seems to be the choice over Lloyds, if you have to own something in the banking sector. John Aitken, director of bank research at County Natwest Securities, which is part of National Westminster, likes Barclays, especially because of its strong capital position. But it is still just the best of a bad lot. "It's becoming quite apparent," added Christopher C. Ellerton of S. G. Warburg, "that one thing you can't have too much of is capital."
Mr. Aitken is selling National Westminster, which has suffered severely from the downturn in business in the United States through its National Westminster USA. The American subsidiary has been hurt like others in the Northeast from declining real estate, which forced the parent bank to add more than $100 million in bad-loan provisions in the first half of the year. And these provisions are expected to rise further.
Midland, it seems by almost all accounts, is just in dreadful shape. The only thing going for it is the continuing prospect of a merger or some other association with the Hong Kong Shanghai Bank.
The banking sector, concluded Mr. Robins of Barclays, "may hit bottom soon. But it will stay on the bottom for a long time." Stay away, he says, until at least February, when the results for 1990 start to appear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (90%); LLOY (LSE) (90%); ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (79%); ENGLAND (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (90%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); SANTANDER UK PLC (56%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (55%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BONDS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



113 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
The Economy: More Than the Sum of Its Parts

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE American economy did surprisingly well in the third quarter of 1990. And the businesses that make up the economy did surprisingly poorly.
That is the conundrum Wall Street faced last week as tallies of corporate profits showed more disappointments while the Government put out a guess that economic growth in the period was well above what most seers had expected. 
 The explanation for that divergence may be a simple one. What drove up the reported real gross national product figure -- to a 1.8 percent annual rate of growth from 0.4 percent the preceding quarter -- was not that Americans were spending and making all that much extra money. In terms of actual current dollars, the ones everyone spends, the nominal rate of growth edged up just two-tenths of a percentage point. But with a lower inflation rate, real growth showed a bigger gain.
That lower inflation rate -- if it stands up to the inevitable revisions -- may itself be a reflection of the economy's problems. Companies are simply unable to pass on higher costs, because demand is weakening across the board. That helps to boost real growth figures, at least for a time, but it does not provide the money companies need to pay their bills. It is a recipe for lower profit margins.
In that same third quarter, reports Richard Bernstein, a quantitative analyst at Merrill Lynch, 36 percent of the companies reported earnings significantly below Wall Street expectations, while 24 percent exceeded the forecasts.
Although the Bush Administration hailed the G.N.P. report as signifying there is no recession, the odds are that an unusual one has begun.
 "This time it's a balance-sheet recession," said economist A. Gary Shilling, "not an income-statement one. But it will get to the income statement." What he means is that the downturn is being set off by crumbling asset values, not by the normal erosion of demand.
Mr. Shilling, who runs his own consulting and money management firm, began shorting bank stocks heavily in May, and has prospered from the strategy. He says it is far too early to cover, notwithstanding the fact that financial stocks rallied at the end of last week, leading a move that pushed the Dow Jones industrial average up 54.70 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,490.84. The N.Y.S.E. financial index gained 3.5 percent, its best showing in nearly six months, but is still down 30 percent this year.
There are hopes on Wall Street that the Federal Reserve, which pushed rates down ever so slightly early last week, will be able to move more aggressively soon, amid such indications of economic weakness as falling manufacturing orders and rising unemployment.
Lower interest rates are supposed to stimulate borrowing and business activity. But banks and many other businesses now seem less interested in seeking new investment opportunities than in scrambling for safety by reducing their exposure to risk.
The phrase for what happens when the Fed eases and nothing happens is "pushing on a string."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Dow Jones average, Oct. 26-Nov. 2, 1990; G.N.P. quarterly changes, 3rd qtr. 1989-3rd qtr. 1990; National Assoc. of Purchasing Managers' Index o fnew orders, June-Oct., 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); CORPORATIONS; COMPANY REPORTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); RECESSION (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (66%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (62%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD RICHARD A BERNSTEIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



114 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2437 words

HEADLINE: It's Tough Slogging in the Japan Markets

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
THE startling news that Matsushita Electric was negotiating to buy MCA Inc., the movie-maker, hit American securities houses here recently like a thunderstorm after a drought. Deal-parched investment bankers focused not on the proposed buyout's meaning for an ailing America or a Hollywood starry-eyed for Japanese money, but on one detail: Matsushita had not yet hired a financial adviser.
"Every carpetbagger with a suitcase has been to Osaka," said one banker, referring to Matsushita's hometown. 
 The unseemly scramble to get into the MCA megadeal was a sign of the times in Tokyo, where such multibillion-dollar transactions, with their multimillion-dollar fees, have been far rarer than most Americans expected.
Every part of the securities business here, in fact, has turned out to be more difficult than billed. American firms have established beachheads in such areas as securities and options trading, and they have generally enjoyed greater success in Japan than Japanese firms have on Wall Street. But progressing into the rich heartland of the markets and corporate Japan is still a distant dream.
Under American pressure, some regulatory barriers have been removed, such as a bar on foreign members in the stock exchange and in the syndicate that distributes Government bonds. The intricate cultural and financial links joining Japanese banks, securities firms and corporations have made Japan tough to crack, however.
Most important, the flood of Japanese capital pouring into the United States and other foreign markets, the largest such outflow in history, has slowed, perhaps to less than $80 billion this year, compared with $137 billion in 1987. Brokering that trans-Pacific movement of capital was to have been the core of the firms' business here. The plunge in the Japanese markets in this troubled year has also set back efforts to expand.
"This has been a transition year," said Randy A. Harris, president of Merrill Lynch Japan. "Everything that was so strong before has changed."
 
New View of the Globe
 Indeed, with the roaring boom of the 1980's having come to a screeching halt back home, anxious Wall Street firms are trying harder than ever this year to turn their Japanese operations into key profit centers. It simply is not happening as quickly as many would like.
The disappointment follows the overly optimistic projections of some executives five years ago, who imagined that "globalization" really meant most world markets would look more and more like Wall Street, where they enjoyed unassailable advantages. Because the markets here have remained stubbornly Japanese, the major American firms have been forced to temper their global ambitions and rethink what being "international" means, a process hastened by Tokyo's harder times. The slice of the Japanese markets really accessible to the foreign firms is still small, which means the competition for those modest spoils is keen.
"There are a lot of people chasing the pot of gold here," said Maynard Toll, the newly named president of a revamped CS First Boston (Japan) and one of the few top American executives who speaks the language and has some background in the country. "One of my biggest jobs is going to be managing the expectations of the people in New York and Europe about the potential here."
Evidence of the new order of diminished expectations is everywhere:
* With business slow, the heads of the merger departments here for CS First Boston, Shearson Lehman, Salomon Brothers and Merrill Lynch have either left recently or plan to do so soon. The most surprising news was the recently announced departure of Toby S. Myerson, head of Wasserstein, Perella & Company's Tokyo office and a Japan specialist who arrived with great fanfare just a year ago. "Anybody who thought they were going to come here, make some big fireworks and then return home didn't understand this business from the beginning," Mr. Myerson said.
* The market in Japanese stock warrants -- options that give the right to purchase shares at a fixed price by some date in the future -- has all but dried up since the Tokyo stock market began a steep slide last spring. That shut down a big source of profits for foreign and domestic firms.
* Japanese purchases of American stocks and bonds have dropped. In fact, Japanese investors were net sellers of $8.9 billion worth of American securities in the first half of 1990, a dramatic reversal from their purchases of $17.4 billion worth in the second half of last year.
* Even some seeming boons have turned sour for the American firms. When the Tokyo stock market exploded out of its lethargy several weeks ago for its largest-ever one-day gain, the stock index futures market shut down for two sessions as circuit-breakers were tripped. That cut off program trading, a major moneymaker for some.
 
'A Lot of Tire-Kicking'
 To be sure, all the American firms insist they will continue to ply the takeover trade actively here, and Mr. Myerson, who will not be replaced for the time being, said he was leaving because he wanted to return to practicing law. But his move was still taken as a potent symbol of the disappointment many clearly feel.
"What's happening is that there is a lot of tire-kicking going on as Japanese companies analyze potential targets, and we're getting some retainers to do that," Mr. Myerson said. "Those will pay a lot of light bills, but they don't always please the big bosses. We get paid when the deals close."
Added John Ehara, a partner in the merger department of Goldman Sachs, one of the more successful here: "This is a very tough climate and, if you have a short-term view, you won't focus on M.& A. now. But in the long term, it will be important."
And when there are deals, as the Matsushita maneuverings have demonstrated, the competition has been cutthroat. The Japanese are eagerly pursuing the business along with the Americans. (Morgan Stanley, which has been a leader in mergers and acquisitions, is believed to have the best shot in the race for Matsushita's business, although a deal with MCA has not been concluded.)
"This market is overbanked," said Deryck C. Maughan, chairman of Salomon Brothers Asia, the most profitable Japanese operation of the 52 foreign securities firms -- 22 of them American -- doing business in Japan.
One result is that the huge growth in staffing at the American firms has been slowing this year. Though Salomon Brothers has just spent about $30 million to move into a sleek new building in Otemachi, Tokyo's main business district, Mr. Maughan said the firm would not grow much more than its current 600, which is up from 100 people in 1985.
As for Goldman Sachs, "We will continue to grow, but the rate will slow," said Bracebridge H. Young Jr., co-head of the firm's Tokyo office. Goldman's Japan operation has expanded from 330 at the beginning of last year to 450 now.
For its part, CS First Boston is still emerging from a wrenching process of bringing in new managers and laying off some staff. Allen Wheat, the new head of the Pacific region, said the firm has reduced its staff by about 40 and is now at about 400, where it expects to stay.
Morgan Stanley's staff has jumped to 650, but the growth rate is slowing, executives there said. Merrill Lynch is the only foreign firm trying to build a retail branch system in Japan, and it opened its sixth office recently. But Mr. Harris said the overall head count of 600 would not expand much further.
Expatriates account for roughly 10 to 20 percent of the staff of the American firms.
While the mood of the Americans is sober, it is far from pessimistic. That is largely because the American firms here still have an important edge that has generally made their operations profitable. That edge is ideas -- for new financial products, trading strategies and approaches to acquisitions. Most of these innovations require a savvy use of technology; indeed, if the emblem of Wall Street in the 1980's was a flashy pair of red suspenders, in Tokyo in the 1990's it is the greenish glow of computer screens.
 
How Japanese Have Done
 In addition, the American houses, not surprisingly, have far better client bases in the United States than do Japanese firms, and the Americans exploit those links in brokering cross-border transactions of all kinds. Those links are one reason that the Big Four Japanese securities firms -- Nomura, Daiwa, Nikko and Yamaichi -- have performed even more poorly in the United States than the Americans have in Tokyo.
In some ways, the major American securities houses have done better in Tokyo than in London. There have been few disasters to rival those that have jolted the firms in London, such as the plunge in various businesses after the Big Bang in 1986, major layoffs several years ago and the losses in the wake of the 1987 market crash.
Another key advantage the American firms enjoy is their willingness to use capital in taking risks. A number of them, including Salomon Brothers, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, have combined their technological skills with their penchant for risk-taking to churn out handsome profits from the complex futures and options markets. One of the changes initiated by CS First Boston's new managers was to begin trading more actively with the firm's own capital.
The Japanese earn so much from essentially riskless businesses -- by far their largest source of revenues is simple stock commissions -- that they have traditionally neglected trading with their own capital. In a market that still has fixed commissions, taking those risks has not been necessary. Thus, exploiting the price differentials that regularly show up in the crevices of the Japanese markets is left to the Americans.
One of the biggest breaks for Salomon, the biggest trader here, was the introduction of futures on Japanese Government bonds in 1985. "I don't think we could have succeeded here without that," Mr. Maughan acknowledged. "The Japanese had too big a client base and too big a share of the market to let us in without something new."
 
On the Fringes
 That has generated steady profits. But it also has left the Americans on the periphery, making do with the scraps. The most lucrative core businesses, such as Japanese stock sales and underwritings, remain almost the exclusive terrain of the Big Four.
"This has been and continues to be an oligopoly," said Mr. Harris of Merrill Lynch. "That's why Japan is still not a market where one competes on price, which is obviously not what we're used to."
Despite the progress, Americans and other foreigners continue to complain about the tight formal and informal regulations that make it difficult for them to compete. The Government has not permitted development of a bond repurchase market, a financing technique that is essential to certain kinds of sophisticated trading. The short-term money market and securitization, the process of creating bonds from other financial obligations, remain in their infancy. And the underwriting process is hobbled by outdated regulations and Government interference.
At one time, the American firms took their complaints to Washington and tried to use governmental pressure to force the Japanese to open up. They altered that tactic a little more than a year ago, however, when the firms began to worry that the profitable niches they had carved out might be threatened by too much pressure.
Most executives at the firms and other experts say they have run into the reality that there are effectively two kinds of markets here: international, to which they have access and can compete, and domestic, the most lucrative, from which they have been largely barred.
"The markets have become global from the point of view of buyers and sellers of securities," said Samuel L. Hayes 3d, a Harvard Business School professor and co-author of a recent book on international investment banking. "But they are not global from the point of view of the vendors in the middle. There is not much evidence that the American firms have made real inroads into the domestic marketplace in Japan."
Indeed, Mr. Toll, who arrived in June with the assignment of rebuilding CS First Boston's Japanese operations, makes no bones about the fact that the firm wants to become a good niche competitor and "stay out of places where we'll just get in trouble."
"To me, that means we will never grow to a great size here," said the 48-year-old Mr. Toll, who first came to Japan as a student at Keio University in 1961.
Mr. Myerson, the departing Wasserstein Perella executive, is equally low key. "Every once in a while there will be a megadeal, but what you should be doing here is building relationships," he said.
Mr. Myerson, 41, also went to university in Japan and speaks the language. As a lawyer in New York, he spent 18 years developing a coterie of Japanese clients. Despite that experience and the splash he made when he arrived, he and his firm, which is 20 percent owned by Nomura Securities, have not been racking up billion-dollar deals. He has been, as he said, still laying the groundwork.
Where the Americans have succeeded is in using the most complex financial instruments. When CS First Boston was looking for a new executive to head its Pacific region, it ended up hiring practically an entire department from Bankers Trust that focused on high-technology investment products, customized interest-rate swaps and options.
 
Closing the Gap
 All the same, the Japanese are catching up. Executives at the American firms concede that the Japanese are spending more on computers and are recruiting specialists to develop these new products. Daiwa wasted no time in crowing publicly that Harry M. Markowitz, who shared in this year's Nobel award in economics, was a consultant.
"The product life cycle is so short that the Japanese can have a new product in six weeks," said Patrick J. Ward, head of the equities department at Goldman Sachs.
Those realities have persuaded most of the American firms here to narrow their focus and to recruit and lean much more heavily on Japanese professionals.
"The next year in my view is going to be painful, and some people are going to say that it's not worth it and could pack up," said James M. Walsh, the newly named president of Prudential-Bache Japan, who is trying to re-energize the operation.
Others were more optimistic, if still realistic. "We're not here swinging for the fences," said Goldman's Mr. Ward. "We're building a business, and that will take time."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
PUB-DATE: December 9, 1990

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Nov. 4 headed "Wall Street, Tokyo," with an article about American securities firms in Japan, mislabeled figures for the flow of long-term capital from Japan. The figures were worldwide, not just for the United States.
A chart on Nov. 4 headed "Wall Street, Tokyo" with an article about American brokers doing business in Japan misstated the revenues of Kidder, Peabody & Company in Japan for the year ended March 31, 1990. As Kidder pointed out in a recent letter, its revenues there were $35.3 million in fiscal 1990.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Just Arrived: Maynard Toll of CS First Boston; Heading Home: Toby S. Myerson of Wasserstein, Perella. (Haruyoshi Yamaguchi for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Thirty-year-old Koji Tsubouchi is a bond trader at Goldman Sachs. (Associated Press); graphs: flow of capital from Japan to the United States, 1981-1990 (1990, first half); net purchases of U.S. securities by Japanese, fiscal year ended March 31; 1981-1990; chart: revenues and earnings of major American securities firms in Tokyo for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1990 (Sources: Japan Economic Journal, Bank of Japan, Nomura Research Institute) (pg. 10)
 
YOUNG JAPANESE ON AN AMERICAN FAST TRACK

 AT 30 years of age, Koji Tsubouchi is the sort of bright young man who, if he worked at a Japanese securities house, would probably be at a regional sales office pumping the phones by day and drinking with colleagues by night to insure an unimpeded but slow passage up the corporate ladder.
At Goldman Sachs (Japan), however, he is a no-nonsense manager of a key operation and a representative of a new breed that is helping American firms secure a place in the difficult Japanese market.
As head of Goldman's Japanese Government-bond trading desk, Mr. Tsubouchi has far more responsibility than he would at a Japanese firm, earns much more and, with his hot track record, is a big profit center. He does this in a most un-Japanese way: he takes risks.
"Typically, our exposure is 5 billion yen or so, but it can get up to 100 billion or 200 billion," Mr. Tsubouchi said nonchalantly of the calculated bets he and his traders, who are all Japanese, place in the market. (A billion yen is a bit less than $8 million.)
"The biggest risks we have in Japan are in Koji's book," said Bracebridge H. Young Jr., co-head of Goldman's Tokyo office.
By straddling the two cultures, Mr. Tsubouchi is also helping Goldman transform itself from an American firm into a new kind of international entity whose character changes slightly from one country to another.
A poised young man who is nearly six feet tall, Mr. Tsubouchi is a 1982 economics graduate from Waseda University, one of Japan's more prestigious training grounds. He joined Goldman after receiving an M.B.A. from Cornell University in 1985.
Mr. Tsubouchi returned to Tokyo in 1986 and by late 1987 was trading Japanese Government bonds, using computers to locate and exploit small price differentials between different bonds. More important, he was not simply executing company policies decided by committees; he was given a lot of capital to trade with, using his own judgment. He was given a chance to succeed, as well as fail.
When Mr. Tsubouchi joined Goldman, the move was considered somewhat unusual. But suddenly, many graduates of top Japanese universities are looking for jobs with the high-paying American houses.
"It's become sort of fashionable for young Japanese to talk to an American firm," Mr. Tsubouchi said. "When I talk to these people I try to let them know that there is also a downside. They're not used to that."
He added, "Japanese institutions generally allow a transition period from college. You have two or three years to go from a kid to a businessman. At an American firm, you're a businessman from the first day. It's tough for young Japanese to do that."
Another downside: Working for an American firm makes movement to a career track at a major Japanese firm all but impossible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); OSAKA, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH JAPAN SECURITIES CO LTD (53%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); SECURITIES BROKERS (90%); BONDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



115 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: All About/Exercise Machines;
The Fitness Boom Ends Up at Home

BYLINE: By BARRY SCHIFFMAN

 BODY:
THE Marines still do their pull-ups.Heavyweights jump rope. But these days more and more ordinary Americans are trying to get in shape with elaborate and expensive home exercise equipment. Last year, they spent $1.73 billion, triple what they spent in 1980.
Exercise machines are the latest in the fitness boom, suitable for an aging, family-minded generation. 
 Richard Miller, owner of Cutler Owens, the Gym Source, says his New York store began as a full-line sporting goods retailer that catered to runners and tennis players in the 1970's. He started selling exercise equipment in 1981 and gradually eliminated everything else, concentrating on higher-end products. "I figured the ultimate would be in the home," he said. "People were in the health clubs, they got married and had kids, and they are staying at home."
In National Sporting Goods Association consumer surveys, retail sales of home fitness equipment grew 22 percent in 1988 and 19 percent in 1989. The equipment accounts for about 15 percent of sporting goods sales, more than any other category except hunting. The products range from a bottom-of-the-line exercise bicycle, for less than $100, to computerized treadmills for more than $3,000.
Some in the industry wonder if the growth can continue. How many people will keep sweating in the privacy of their homes? they ask. And if more machines end up in closets, will fewer new ones be sold?
 
A Fickle Business

Matching Trends Is a Key to Success
 Exercise equipment fads can be fleeting. Rowing machines were the rage several years ago; now, sales are slow. Treadmills and stair machines are popular, but for how long? Several companies are bringing out weight machines, for those less interested in endurance than in strength.
Manufacturers have learned that buyers can be quick to rebel when they don't get results, said Wayne Sales, merchandise manager for sporting goods at K Mart. In the mid-1980's, he said, sales stagnated. "We saw a lot of equipment that was gimmicky." Since then, he added, "There has been a resurgence of basic, fundamental equipment."
Pamela Miller, fitness editor at Sportstyle, a trade magazine, says consumers who are fickle about equipment usually retain their dedication to good health. When they become discouraged with one machine, they try another, she said. But others in the industry fear that the boom will end as buyers consign their machines to the closet.
Manufacturers always stand ready to provide new products. Those companies that keep up with the trends lead the industry. Most are privately held, keeping even their sales figures to themselves. But Sportstyle reports that Diversified Products of Opelika, Ala., was the industry leader last year with sales of $220 million, up 22 percent. Weslo Inc., of Logan, Utah, and its sister company, Proform Fitness Products Inc., are growing even faster, with a 94 percent gain, to $204 million, last year.
These companies prosper by offering a range of products at all prices. They rely heavily on giant retail chains like Sears, Roebuck & Company and the K Mart Corporation, which account for an increasing share of industry sales. After the leaders, about three dozen smaller companies tend to be more specialized.
The largest of the more specialized companies is Nordic Track, of Chaska, Minn., a unit of the publicly held CML Group Inc. Its machines mimic the action of cross-country skiing, allowing skiers to train without snow and lame runners to pile up their mileage without torturing their knees. Nordic has relied exclusively on mail order, but it is about to open its first retail outlet, in Washington. Nordic's revenues have risen from $14 million in 1986, when CML took over, to $85 million for the fiscal year that ended in July.
Not every exercise equipment company can keep up with the industry's pace. Last year, Escalade Inc., of Evansville, Ind., a maker of recreational products and office equipment, acquired 55 percent of Marcy Fitness Products, a financially troubled manufacturer of weight benches and related goods. John Wilson, secretary-treasurer of Escalade, explained that Marcy had tried to expand too quickly and failed to control expenses. Although the takeover kept Marcy in business, the company's sales failed to pick up, and the financial drain has left the parent concern in the red.
 
Threats to Sales

Flimsy Equipment, Bored Customers
For many home athletes, buying fancy machines is much less taxing than using them. Do most buyers keep on rowing, running, skiing or lifting long enough to generate more sales? "That is the proverbial question," said Bill Smith, vice president of marketing for Diversified Products. "Interest does tend to wane." But in a survey, he found that equipment use was surprisingly high, with more than half of all buyers remaining consistent users of the products.
Nordic Track attempted to telephone 1,209 buyers who had owned its machines for five years. Of the 207 reached, 69 percent said they were still using the equipment, averaging three and a half workouts a week of 25 minutes each.
Some say that boredom and flimsy low-priced machines threaten the industry's success. Steve Onder, general manager of the Sports Training Institute in Manhattan, a personal training and physical therapy center, said the most popular, lower-priced equipment "doesn't support a long-term training program." A cheap treadmill does not have a motor capable of turning the belt fast enough for jogging, he said.
Sebastian Di Casoli, director of marketing services for the Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association, says some buyers give up when they find the machines cannot exercise for them. "A lot of people do it to relieve guilty feelings about their weight," he said. "It does get boring and many machines end up in the closet."
Some makers have found innovative ways of fending off boredom. The Precor 9.4sp treadmill, list price $4,500, can be set for 48 exercise programs in miles, 48 in kilometers, or programs of the owner's choosing. The Walking Center in Beverly Hills, Calif., has another way to make its dozen treadmills -- priced at $2,500 to $3,000, or $95 a month to use them in the showroom -- more inviting. Each is hooked up to a television with an earphone.
 
The Outlook

A Recession Might Even Help Sales
Makers of exercise equipment insist that their sales will remain firm even as the nation's economy sags. In troubled times, consumers usually back away from major purchases. But exercise equipment is so new that few long-term records exist. "Leisure-time goods do fairly well in a recession, but exercise equipment might be different," Mr. Di Casoli said. "There is no data. On top of that, the items that are growing are the more expensive ones like treadmills and stair machines."
Gary Stevenson, a founder and the chief operating officer of Weslo, says workout machine sales will increase as many families find they offer an economical way to sweat out a recession. "People will drop vacations," he said. "They will also tend to stop paying for health clubs, weight-loss centers. There is early evidence they will buy equipment for the home."
Even the Middle East crisis may help, some say. As John Walsh, the exercise equipment buyer for Sears, said, "Usually when times get tough, people will stay at home and more equipment will be sold. We saw this in the gasoline crises of the 1970's."
Fitness industry executives say they also have demographics on their side. As the population ages, the demand for equipment can only increase, they say. Industry statistics show that 35- to 65-year-olds are the biggest buyers. They are usually secure in their occupation, have more money than the elderly or young, and are more resistant to a recession.
For all their marketing and innovations, many makers of fitness equipment say their best sales device might be the mirror. As Phyllis Nwransky, public relations manager at the Weider Health and Fitness Corporation, put it, "If we don't do something, we get fat and lazy and we look funny."
 
 
A MUSCULAR MANUFACTURER
 FOR some entrepreneurs, helping others build muscles seemed like a good way to build wealth. Weslo Inc., one of the fastest-growing manufacturers of exercise equipment, entered the business to balance seasonal sales of wood stoves.
In 1977, Scott Watterson and Gary Stevenson, students at Utah State University, after two years as Mormon missionaries in the Far East, began importing kitchenware and marble products to pay for their educations. Two years later, they added a third partner, Blaine Hancey Jr., to jump on a trend. In the midst of an energy crisis, their company bought the rights to Fire King wood stoves and developed a network of retailers, mostly in the West.
Then the partners looked for something to sell in the spring and summer. They settled on trampolines. That business brought them to sporting goods trade shows. There, Mr. Stevenson says, "We recognized that Americans were looking for a way to stay well."
They began importing simple exercise cycles and then started making treadmills in Logan, Utah, where the company is based. They expanded to a full line of equipment, including elaborate home gyms. Weslo makes 70 to 80 percent of its products in Logan and the rest in Taiwan now.
Weslo bought the rights to the Proform name in 1987, after Nike, the sneaker maker, abandoned exercise equipment. Weslo itself was bought in 1988 by the the Weider Health and Fitness Corporation, a maker of weights and food supplements and publisher of several fitness magazines. The company was founded by Joe Weider, a bodybuilder who helped train Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Mr. Stevenson and Mr. Watterson, still in charge, continue to demonstrate agility as well as strength. Weslo has cultivated the big department stores so well that earlier this year, it was cited by Sears, Roebuck merchandise buyers for products that made outstanding contributions to the stores' sales.
And Weslo is always updating its equipment. Its treadmills now offer computerized monitors for pulse, calorie consumption and equivalent distance. "You need something motivational," Mr. Stevenson said. " Feedback makes the task less mundane."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Miller, of Cutler Owens, the Gym Source. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PROFORM FITNESS PRODUCTS INC (60%); NATIONAL SPORTING GOODS ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL SPORTING GOODS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: EXERCISE EXERCISE & FITNESS (92%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); TRENDS (89%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (76%); RETAILERS (76%); ATHLETES (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); TENNIS (70%); SPORTS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: SCHIFFMAN, BARRY

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



116 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Computer;
When a Company Promises Service, Does It Mean It?

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis

 BODY:
VIRTUALLY every computer maker boasts, one way or another, that its No. 1 goal is to serve the customer. It is no secret, though, that some companies simply pay lip service to the idea, while others do an extraordinary job of keeping customers happy. Unfortunately for corporate customers, it is often difficult to discover which is which until after the equipment is purchased.
Now there is help, in two surveys of business computer users -- one by Dataquest Inc., a market research firm in San Jose, Calif., and the other by PC Magazine, published in New York by the Ziff-Davis Company. The results, which reflect the experiences of thousands of companies, are intriguing. 
 "Although technology remains a crucial factor to business success, it is no longer enough," said Manny Fernandez, Dataquest's president, in a statement accompanying the results of his company's survey. "Whatever competitive edges that might have once been found in this area have long since been diminished in importance. Over the past few years, PC's have taken on all of the characteristics of commodity products."
In other words, a PC is a PC, and one company's 386SX box is generally indistinguishable from another's, as if the computers were television sets or toaster ovens. Significant technical differences today are found mainly in the newest high-end systems, not in the standard-issue PC's on most office desks.
Few corporate buyers are willing to justify spending $10,000 on a premium-brand personal computer when a virtually identical one is available elsewhere for $4,000. Recognizing this, most computer companies have cut prices sharply in recent months. Price cuts will get customers in the door, but to make the sale, computer companies are emphasizing product reliability, service and support.How long will this computer run before something goes wrong? How painless will repairs be? Where can a user get help?
In both the PC Magazine and Dataquest studies, mail-order companies made their customers happier than the big-name companies, with a few exceptions. What is more, the Dataquest survey for the first time put hard evidence behind something that many industry executives suspected. "Vendors who finished in the top third in overall customer satisfaction really gained market share, and those in the bottom third lost market share," said Greg Chagaris, a Dataquest vice president.
Mr. Chagaris declined to identify the companies that finished at the bottom of the survey. He was willing to say only that Compaq, Zenith, Epson, Toshiba, Wyse, A.T.& T, Unisys, Grid and Wang finished "in the bottom two-thirds."
Dataquest, a subsidiary of the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, asked more than 1,000 corporate buyers how satisfied they were with the PC's they used most often. The companies that led Dataquest's customer satisfaction list were, in order:
* CompuAdd, of Austin, Tex.
* Hewlett-Packard, Palo Alto, Calif.
* Dell Computer, Austin
* Tandy, Fort Worth.
* AST Research, Irvine, Calif.
* Everex Systems, Fremont, Calif.
* International Business Machines, Armonk, N.Y.
* Apple Computer Inc., Cupertino, Calif.
Two of the top three, CompuAdd and Dell, are primarily direct-sales companies, taking orders by phone, mailing out the goods and answering the buyers' phone calls. Joel Kocher, a senior vice president at Dell, said the impressive showing by some mail-order companies underscored a major shift in the personal computer industry. "PC buyers are moving away from traditional retail stores and to distribution channels that are tailored to their particular needs," he said.
 In its survey, PC Magazine, whose readership is heavily weighted toward computer buyers in the corporate community, received nearly 20,000 responses to its questionnaire on customer satisfaction. Those readers also said direct-order companies provided superior service and support.
Swan Technologies Inc. of State College, Pa., had a remarkably strong showing in the PC Magazine survey, finishing first in three of four categories: overall repair service, overall technical support and percentage of respondents who said they would buy more computers from the same company. But PC Magazine editors noted that Swan, a small company formerly known as Tussey Computers, had relatively few responses in the survey, which did not provide as reliable a statistical base as the other companies. In the fourth category, overall reliability, Hewlett-Packard was first, echoing its impressive standing in the Dataquest survey. Close behind Swan in overall satisfaction were Dell and Northgate Computer Systems Inc. of Eden Prairie, Minn.
In what is perhaps the most telling category of the PC Magazine survey -- the percentage of those who said they would buy more computers from the same company -- Swan was followed by Hewlett-Packard, Dell and Northgate.
Unlike Dataquest, PC Magazine reported the worst performers in each category. The mail-order companies PC Brand Inc. and Austin Computer Systems were rated worst in overall reliability, followed by Packard-Bell, Wyse and Gateway 2000. Commodore Business Machines of West Chester, Pa., finished last in both technical support and repair service. It also had a small number of responses in the survey, which may have skewed the results.
The loser in the PC Magazine poll was Compaq, which has a longstanding policy of referring all customer inquiries and problems to its dealers. Compaq finished next-to-last in technical support and fourth from the bottom in repairs. For a company whose prices are typically the highest in the industry and whose reliability rating in the survey was only average, those results are striking.
Michael Berman, a Compaq spokesman, said the company had not seen the Dataquest survey, and he challenged the PC Magazine findings. "Our information is very different from what PC Magazine reflects," he said. Compaq did its own survey of management information service executives who typically oversee large corporate computing systems, he said, "and they said Compaq was unsurpassed in overall satisfaction."
Compaq recently announced that it was beefing up its training of authorized dealers. "Our research shows that the dealer channel is the way to go for distributing and supporting our products," Mr. Berman said.
In contrast to customers' experience with Compaq, Dell and Northgate customers report that their calls are occasionally answered by the chairmen of the companies. At CompuAdd, a red "hot line" in each of the company's retail stores rings just outside the Austin office of the company's director of sales, in case the customer is not getting waited on or has a question the store personnel cannot answer.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNB (NYSE) (60%); TOS (LSE) (51%); 6502 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: DATAQUEST INC (72%); DAVIS CO INC (71%); DUN & BRADSTREET CORP (60%); TOSHIBA CORP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: DATAQUEST INC; PC MAGAZINE

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (70%); SALES & SELLING (69%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); OFFICE FURNITURE (64%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H ANN LIVERMORE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



117 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:

MONDAY: Kremlin Cup, first professional men's tennis tournament in the Soviet Union, through Sunday. * Intel displays technology for integrating video and computer screens. * Treasury auctions three- and six-month bills. * October auto sales.
 
TUESDAY: Third-quarter productivity. * Hearing in Tyler, Tex., on damage awards for 2,128 asbestos victims.
 
WEDNESDAY: Consumer credit for September. * Treasury auctions 10-year notes.
 
THURSDAY: Major retailers announce October sales. * Treasury auction of 30-year bonds. * Nordstrom's motion to dismiss the State of Washington's suit over the retailer's employee compensation practices goes before a judge in Seattle.
 
 FRIDAY: Producer prices for October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (71%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (71%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (71%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (71%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (90%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC (71%); INTEL CORP (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TENNIS (88%); SPORTS (88%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); RETAIL SALES (87%); RETAILERS (87%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (85%); DAMAGES (84%); PRODUCER PRICES (84%); JUDGES (84%); BONDS (83%); PRODUCTIVITY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



118 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: A World in Flux Means Steady Work for Risk Analysts

BYLINE: By ROBERT SCHULMAN; Robert Schulman is a New York-based freelancer who often writes on business topics.

 BODY:
JUDGING by the number of crises in the world lately, profits must be soaring in the political-risk business.
From the Soviet Union to Eastern Europe to Kuwait, the geopolitical map has been stretched, ripped and tossed on its side during the past 18 months. New markets have been created while existing business ventures have been shaken. Eager to get their bearings, American companies have been turning with increasing frequency to consultants who assess the potential risks and rewards abroad by analyzing the political, social and economic conditions of a particular country or region. 
 No one keeps track of the exact dimensions of the political-risk industry. But clearly these are boom times.
"What we've seen this year is twice as many new members as all of 1989," said George Barnes, executive director of the Dallas-based Council for International Business Risk Management. The council, known as the Association of Political Risk Analysts until last year, now has about 175 members.
Since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August, "the phones have been ringing off the hook with people looking for protection in the Middle East," said John Salinger, head of the political-risk division at American International Group, the insurance and financial services company. American International insures companies against certain risks abroad.
For risk analysts, it is the second time that a crisis in the Persian Gulf has sent their fortunes rising.
Political-risk analysis first flowered in the United States in the late 1970's in response to the Iranian revolution. "That caught many people by surprise," said Mr. Salinger. American business lost billions of dollars, he said, and "for the most part they were uninsured losses."
The events in Iran highlighted a deficiency in American corporate culture, according to Paul Sacks, president of Multinational Strategies Inc., a New York-based risk firm. American business traditionally concentrated on the large domestic market and considered overseas markets of secondary importance. The political-risk analysis industry grew to meet the need for detailed knowledge about the outside world.
BUT the 1980's were not kind to the business, Mr. Sacks said. Corporate risk units were cut back, first because of sluggishness in international business and then, in the second half of the decade, in response to the foreign debt crisis.
Then came the upheavals in Eastern Europe and the Middle East. This time around, however, few believe that corporate political-risk units will be reconstituted on a large scale. There are "now many more opportunities to tap an outside consultant," said Mr. Barnes of the business risk council. And consultants are less expensive than a full-time staff.
One of the best-known firms is Kissinger Associates. Founded by former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, the New York-based concern is the white-shoe firm of political-risk analysis and generally deals with chief executives.
Other well-known firms include Multinational Strategies; Political Risk Services of Syracuse, a unit of International Business Communications, a British concern; Probe International of Stamford, Conn., and London-based Business Risk International Inc., part of the Economist Group holding company, which also owns The Economist magazine.
The traditional function of the political-risk analyst has been to provide "insight into what's going on in the country in question" and to set up introductions with local worthies, said Dov Zakheim, president of SPC International, the consulting arm of the System Planning Corporation of Arlington, Va.
But over the last decade, political-risk analysis, or country-risk analysis as some now call it, has broadened its focus to include economic and market analysis and elements of management consulting.
"Country risk is a management issue," said Barbara Samuels, vice president for country-risk policy at Chase Manhattan Bank. "If you put the assessment function separate from management, it won't work."
Risk analysts agree that knowledge of a country's history and dynamics is fundamental to good assessment. This includes understanding government structure, the interests of elites, ethnic and religious groupings and economics. Analysts often have a network of experts they can call on for specialized knowledge. Political Risk Services, for example, says it consults 250 such specialists, as well as 13 of what it calls senior advisers. Mr. Sacks' firm has 18 "desk officers" on retainer, each a country specialist.
THE art of the exercise is in synthesizing information, what Benjamin Weiner, president of Probe International, calls "grinding it up and coming up with something that we think is pertinent." Synthesis is crucial if consultants want their advice to be heeded. "We don't give our clients 'on the other hand' studies," Mr. Weiner said. "That's not of value to the business community."
There are methodological differences among risk analysts, the main one being responsible for dividing the industry into what might be called the traditionalists and the quantifiers.
Traditionalists travel to areas of interest and speak with academics, officials and journalists in an attempt to get a feeling for developments. They collect statistics, read the pertinent literature and grind it up.
Some analysts stress particular indicators. Mr. Weiner, a former diplomat, pays close attention to ethnic tensions and "people flow" as indicators of social stability. He forecasts, for example, that South Africa will be rent by civil war after majority rule is attained. This is based on his conclusion that the African National Congress is essentially a tribal organization, a fact he said is obscured by the struggle against apartheid.
Among the quantifiers, Political Risk Services has perhaps the most structured, formal approach. Founded in 1979 by William D. Coplin and Michael K. O'Leary, professors at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University, the firm uses a computer model to quantify risk factors.
The model identifies the three most likely political scenarios for each of 85 or so countries and assigns a probability to each scenario, said Marylou Walsh, the company's managing director. For example, the firm's current 18-month forecast for Brazil identifies a center-right coalition as the most likely outcome -- at 45 percent -- of congressional elections to be held later this month. Slightly less likely -- at 40 percent -- is a center-left coalition. A military takeover -- at 15 percent -- is considered unlikely. The model also identifies various risk factors such as turmoil, investment conditions, trade barriers and economic policy. The numbers are supplemented by a narrative report.
Quantification raises the hackles of some traditionalists. "I'm profoundly skeptical of attempts to quantify political possibilities," said L. Paul Bremer, managing director of Kissinger Associates and a former State Department official.
Stanton Burnett, director of studies at Washington's Center for Strategic and International Studies, objects to quantification because "it conveys the charm of competence." He meant that numbers tend to dazzle the beholder, obscuring the often-fuzzy assumptions on which they are based.
Mrs. Walsh responded to these criticisms by saying, "We're providing a service whereby someone can look at many countries and compare them on the same scale."
For some, political-risk analysis is a preliminary, though important, part of their primary business.
Richard V. Allen, who served in the Nixon Administration and as Ronald Reagan's first national security adviser, is a trade consultant whose main business is setting up joint ventures. "Typically, we are inserted between major companies trying to bridge a gap," he said. An example is his effort at helping a South Korean manufacturer set up a plant in what was until recently East Germany. This necessitated an analysis of the German market and was particularly tricky, said Mr. Allen, since the Germans have very little experience with the Koreans.
As in any business where so much depends on experts and personal contacts, and where the product is an intangible like advice, the political-risk industry is marked by a certain amount of inflated self-representation and the occasional character who talks a good game but cannot deliver.
"The business is not immune to hucksterism,," said Mr. Zakheim.
Kenneth DeGraffenreid, a Washington consultant who headed the intelligence section of the National Security Council staff for six years, said that he knew of two retired "senior U.S. intelligence agents" who sold what he considered essentially worthless data bases to an American company for more than $100,000. "There are a lot of people who lead others to believe that they have secret sources," he said. "Secret sources are pretty hard to come by."
ALSO hard to come by in political-risk analysis is accurate prediction. For every anecdote about farsightedness, there is another about myopia. "Have we ever been caught with our pants down?" Mr. Sacks asked rhetorically. "Yes, everyone in this business has."
Not many foresaw the invasion of Kuwait, after all. Political Risk Services' report on Kuwait, dated May 1990, contains the sentence, "Outright invasion by either Iraq or Iran is possible but not likely." But, says Mrs. Walsh, "We're talking about one sentence in a 50-page report."
Indeed, flubbed predictions, according to some, are a false issue in political-risk analysis. The analysts may have misgauged the timing and the pace of the opening to East Europe, Mr. Sacks said, but "we can talk about the broader ramifications."
And that is an invaluable contribution, the analysts say. American business, for example, has a nearly limitless capacity for self-delusion in regarding the Soviet Union and China as places to make large amounts of money, Mr. Allen said.
Their job is to rein in such corporate enthusiasm, the analysts add, and without them far more companies would be shooting themselves in the foot.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about political risk analysis misidentified two companies. Business International is the London-based subsidiary of the Economist Group; Business Risk International Inc. is based in Nashville. They are not connected.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard V. Allen, a trade consultant (The New York Times); Henry Kissinger, the former Secretary of State (The New York Times); Benjamin Weiner, president of Probe International. (Associated Press)
 
The Price of Information
 FEES for political-risk analysis can range from less than $500 to well into six figures, depending on whether a client wants an off-the-shelf report on a single country or a view of the world through the eyes of a former Secretary of State.
Political Risk Services will sell one of its country reports for $390. Other offerings include a monthly newsletter ($375 a year), semi-annual forecasts ($495 for two issues) and the company's top-of-the-line "World Country Report Service." For $5,750, a client receives a veritable avalanche of information about all 85 countries the firm studies plus consultations with the company's directors and researchers.
If you are more interested in the global outlook several years down the line, Kissinger Associates will fill you in for around $200,000, which includes at least one meeting with Henry Kissinger himself.
Some smaller consulting firms charge by the day or by the project. "It is not inexpensive," said Benjamin Weiner of Probe International Inc., who like several others did not want his fee schedule publicized.
Paul Sacks of Multinational Strategies Inc. said that his firm bills at the rate of $2,500 a day plus expenses for work by one of the firm's three principals. Staff work goes for $1,200 a day. Mr. Sacks was quick to add that the firm does a lot of work for the Federal Government, which pays considerably less.
Richard V. Allen, a trade consultant whose work includes risk assessment, said his fee is directly related to a company's willingness to provide equity in a business project that he works on. Failing that, he charges a "simple success fee at the end of the project if it is successfully completed." Mr. Allen said he has never figured out what an hour of his time costs.
He did remember, however, when he first realized that there was money to be made in consulting. In 1967, Mr. Allen, an academic at the time, happened to sit next to the chairman of the Boise Cascade Corporation on an airplane. Their conversation led Mr. Allen to write a memorandum for the chairman, for which he charged $150. The executive thought the bill was ridiculously low and paid him $500, Mr. Allen said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%); ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (93%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CONSULTANTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RISK MANAGEMENT (91%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); EXTERNAL DEBT (60%); 

PERSON: SCHULMAN, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



119 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
For House Republicans, Analysts Change Forecast From Gains to Losses

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
As recently as this summer, Republicans thought they might gain seats in the House of Representatives this year, trimming the Democrats' 83-seat margin and perhaps paving the way for Republican control of Congress later in the 90's. But that optimism evaporated with the budget and tax melodrama of the last few weeks, and now analysts are asking how many seats the Republicans will lose.
With a possible recession looming and President Bush's popularity dropping in public opinion polls, some say the Republicans will do well to avoid a rout. 
 "A few weeks ago, I think the Republicans would have been happy with a net loss of three to five seats," said Charles E. Cook Jr., a political analyst and editor of The Cook Political Report, a highly regarded nonpartisan newsletter. "Now, I think if you offered them a loss of 10 seats, they'd take it and run."
Analysts are comparing 1990 with 1982, the first Congressional elections after Ronald Reagan swept into office with the support of all but six states. At that midterm point, the country was in the middle of a recession and the Reagan coattails were clipped, as Republicans lost 26 seats to Democrats.
 
Shorter Coattails
 Nobody expects the Republicans to lose that many seats this time. For one thing, Mr. Bush's coattails in 1988 were not nearly as long as Mr. Reagan's in 1980. For another, the economy is not nearly as bad. Still, Mr. Cook said a loss of more than 15 seats was likely this year "if the anti-Bush sentiment really clicks in." Democrats outnumber Republicans 258 to 175, with two vacancies.
It is not that the Democrats are invulnerable. The savings and loan crisis, ethics investigations and voter anger over things like constituent service have left many Democrats either trailing in the polls or ahead with a precariously slim margin.
Democrats also say they are approaching a kind of saturation point in the House: there are just so many districts left that have the potential to switch from Republican to Democratic.
But to the extent that Democrats face problems in individual races, Republicans face the same problems, plus the effects of the mood shift against the President. One Republican strategy, analysts say, is to predict a rout in Tuesday's elections. That prediction might galvanize wavering Republicans to get out and vote. It might also enable the party to claim victory if it loses only a few seats.
Democrats, by contrast, are playing down their possible gains, hoping to keep Republicans away from the polls and enabling their party to claim victory if their victory is bigger.
 
Departures Leave Tossups
 As with all Congressional elections, most of the races for the 435 House seats are uncontested or the challengers so poorly financed that incumbents are considered shoo-ins.
In a recent issue, the weekly journal Congressional Quarterly said 215 Democratic seats and 138 Republican seats were "absolutely safe," leaving only 82 competitive races.
The number of open seats, created by House members' retiring or running for other offices, is 29 this year, up from 24 in 1988 but lower than the average of 40 in recent elections.
Eight House Republicans are running for the Senate, making otherwise secure House races tossups.
"It has left us with some very tough seats," said Gary Koops, head of public affairs for the National Republican Congressional Committee. "It will come down to turnout."
 
Measuring Voters' Mooss in the
 A big question is the extent of the voters' anti-incumbency mood. Richard Bates, executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said: "The mood out there is that people hate the Congress, make fun of the Congress, but like their local Congressman, because he is their liaison with the Government, gets them their Medicare payments, gets them into West Point."
Stuart Rothenberg, editor of The Political Report, a newsletter that follows races, says the Administration's handling of the budget crisis could be particularly damaging to Republicans this year. "The Republicans could always claim that they were the party capable of handling the economy," he said. "That was their life raft. But the abandonment of the tax promise, the budget mess and the falling apart of the economy have undermined that entire argument."
 
Consequences of S.& L. Debacle
 The savings and loan fiasco has contributed to the anti-incumbent mood, but it has been a leading issue in only a few races, and Democrats as well as Republicans are vulnerable.
In California, Representative Charles (Chip) Pashayan Jr. is considered one of the most vulnerable Republicans because of campaign contributions from Charles H. Keating Jr., former head of the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association, and because of his efforts to intercede for the executive with regulators. Lincoln Savings is now defunct.
And in Oregon, Representative Denny Smith, another Republican, is in jeopardy because he was a board member of a savings institution that was seized by Federal regulators.
Ethics is another issue whose impact is being felt by both parties. In Maryland, Roy Dyson, a Democrat, is struggling to overcome charges that he improperly took large campaign contributions from military contractors while he was a member of the House Armed Services Committee.
Finally, a number of candidates struggling for re-election may be particularly vulnerable to the anti-incumbency mood: They are accused of serving their home districts poorly or of being out of touch.
 
Spotted Owls and Guns
 Jolene Unsoeld, Democrat of Washington, is considered vulnerable for having advocated the protection of the spotted owl in a district that depends heavily on the lumber industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (91%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (70%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%); ETHICS (63%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



120 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1767 words

HEADLINE: James River's About To Invent Itself Again

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

DATELINE: RICHMOND,

 BODY:
DON'T call the James River Corporation a paper company when Bob Williams is around. Never mind that its nearly $6 billion in sales derive almost exclusively from paper products. Never mind that only paper analysts cover the company. Never mind that for a long time Mr. Williams was awfully proud that James River, which he co-founded 21 years ago, has grown to be one of the world's largest paper companies.
None of that matters to Robert C. Williams, who last month took over the chief executive's slot from Brenton S. Halsey, the other co-founder. James River, Mr. Williams hastens to point out every time he hears the dreaded P-word, is a consumer-products company, with its future tied to such branded products as Northern bathroom tissue, Brawny towels and Dixie paper plates and to the bags and boxes surrounding Kellogg cereals and Frito Lay potato chips. 
 "We have totally changed our emphasis to consumer products," Mr. Williams said.
Mr. Williams is not just whistlin' through a Dixie cup. In August, James River announced a major restructuring into three businesses: consumer products, communications paper and packaging. Conspicuous by its absence from the new lineup: specialty papers, the industrial high-technology products on which the company was founded, which accounted for $1.3 billion in sales last year, and which Mr. Williams is actively trying to sell.
Although the current economy is not particularly conducive to selling anything, James River and AEA Investors, a group formed to buy the specialty business, have ironed out most of the details for the transfer.
THERE is little doubt what Mr. Williams wants to accomplish. James River's stock, which seems mired in the low- to mid-$20's, sells at only 8 times earnings -- typical for a paper company. Consumer products companies, in contrast, generally command earnings multiples of 18 or higher. Consumer packaging companies rarely dip below 16.
Moreover, as more economists predict recession, paper companies are likely to be valued even lower by the market.
"On a tonnage basis, paper is not highly cyclical, but on a profit basis, it is," said Benjamin Slatin, chief economist at the American Paper Institute. That is one reason that Robert S. Palm, the paper analyst for Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, will not recommend James River stock, despite his enthusiasm for its restructuring. "Earnings for all paper companies will deteriorate over the next several quarters," he said.
To Mr. Williams, such logic proves his point. "Analysts just don't give us credit for the businesses we're really in," he said.
Wall Street will be a hard sell. James River, for years one of the paper industry's highest fliers, ended its fiscal year on April 29 with a meager $221.6 million in income. That represented a 13.1 percent plunge from 1989 despite a 1.3 percent increase in sales. Capital expenditures were down 16 percent, to $575 million, although many aging plants sorely need repair.
George B. Adler, Smith Barney's paper analyst, put a "buy" recommendation on James River stock last month -- but with reservations. "It is wonderful that they are getting rid of specialty operations," he said. "But this company hasn't performed the way it used to for quite some time."
Mr. Williams must find even such lukewarm support welcome at what is, at best, a bittersweet time. The sale of specialties marks the transition from an era of gloriously unlimited growth and technological emphasis to one of retrenchment and emphasis on a function in which neither Mr. Williams, 60 years old, nor Mr. Halsey, 63, has ever excelled: marketing.
From day one, the two partners had a practical division of duties. Mr. Halsey, a tall, distinguished-looking man with a courtly, Virginian manner, was the consummate Mr. Outside. The shorter, scrappier Mr. Williams was the operations whiz.
They specialized in buying ailing companies for 50 cents per dollar of sales. Mr. Halsey would handle the financial negotiations, the media, all of the external arrangements. Mr. Williams would check out the target's processes, equipment and staff.
For close to two decades, James River, which went public in 1973, grew in almost geometric progression. Return on equity routinely topped 20 percent, the highest in the paper industry. Compound growth in sales and earnings often hit 50 percent.
Then, in 1980, James River made the acquisition that would change its course forever: It bought the Brown Paper Company.
The original plan was to retain only Brown's extensive pulping operations, shape up its lackluster tissue and towel, food and beverage service products and paperboard packaging businesses, and resell them. But by the time the Brown facilities were deemed salable, the 1982 recession had hit. James River's mainstay specialty papers businesses were in the doldrums; Brown's recession-resistant consumer products businesses were doing fine. The seeds of the combined company's metamorphosis were sown.
James River bought American Can's paper facilities in 1982, which gave it the Dixie cup and Northern toilet tissue brands. And in 1986 it bought Crown Zellerbach, which made consumer and communications papers.
Crown was a $1.6 billion, all-stock buy, which forced down James River's return on equity. It was the first company for which James River paid more than rock bottom. And it was huge -- too huge to digest without stomach pains. "It took a lot longer to consolidate than we had expected," Mr. Williams conceded.
As James River struggled to absorb Crown Zellerbach, pulp prices started an inexorable march upward. For 14 consecutive quarters, James River, which still bought more than 15 percent of its pulp, saw its margins shrink as the price of its raw material rose. "Being a net buyer of pulp was just terrible," said Ernest S. Leopold, executive vice president of communications papers.
Earnings and return on assets went into free fall. James River no longer had the money to upgrade plants. "It was too many mouths and not enough food," said Norman K. Ryan, the packaging business's executive vice president. By 1988, both Mr. Williams and Mr. Halsey had come to an emotionally wrenching conclusion: Specialty papers, the company's growth-machine-turned-earnings-drag, would have to go.
T he specialty business is not the only James River mainstay slated for disappearance. Mr. Halsey is retaining the title of chairman, but is expected to phase himself out of the business soon.
He will be sorely missed -- especially by Mr. Williams. The two partners' public "arguments" were legendary, giving rise to sporadic rumors of trouble at headquarters. In fact, those who know the men say they revel in a debating-club style of strategizing, taking opposite sides of an issue just to make sure they have viewed all aspects.
"They use each other as devil's advocate," observed Mr. Leopold. Charles E. Eberle, the new consumer products chieftain, has this take on the relationship: "Bob's mind would be racing at 100 miles an hour, and Brent would balance his impetuosity."
DESPITE anticipated nostalgia for Mr. Halsey, the heads of the new businesses seem delighted with the reorganization.
Mr. Leopold said it "puts the accountability where the action is." Mr. Ryan sees it as a communications tool. "It becomes easier to decide how you will move forward, set priorities, apply resources, if you are in similar businesses," he said. His group, which is currently scattered across the country, is building a new headquarters in Cincinnatti.
In the short term, Mr. Eberle has the most daunting task. He is pursuing joint ventures in Europe, where the consumer paper market is growing twice as fast as in the United States. And he is trying to get his colleagues to think in marketing terms -- something they must do if James River is to go up against Scott Paper, Procter & Gamble, Kimberley-Clark and the other marketing powerhouses that dominate consumer paper.
That is not going to be easy. Mr. Williams approaches management like a true technocrat. He and his staff do methodical studies, with charts and graphs, of every product the company makes, complete with comparisons' to competitors' costs and quality. He sees Northern bathroom tissue, for example, rising or falling on its strength and softness; in fact, most marketing experts say that Northern's future rests more on whether consumers are most tickled by White Cloud's animated cloud, Charmin's Mr. Whipple, or Northern's little girl with the sore backside.
James River is woefully short of people who understand that. And that makes succession a problem. Mr. Eberle, an ex-Procter & Gamble executive, is the only high-level person in James River with extensive consumer products experience. But at 62, he is not a candidate for the top, and he doubts that anyone in his group is succession material.
Mr. Leopold, 56, who hails from Crown Zellerbach, and Mr. Ryan, 54, who joined the company with Brown, are both well-regarded paper executives, but know little about consumer products. If Mr. Williams plans to rotate either of them through the consumer business before he retires, he is not saying.
"The James River people must realize they should make only what they can sell, not figure out ways to sell what they can make," Mr. Eberle said.
It will probably take some time before Wall Street is certain they have done just that. Thus, Mr. Williams may remain dissatisfied with his "consumer products" company's stock price for a while yet.
 
 
HEADED FOR SPINOFFS?
JAMES RIVER's decision to split into three stand-alone businesses raises an obvious question: Will it soon put the final touch on that independence, and spin off the businesses as separate companies?
So far, the heads of the new units have no unified public stance on the issue.
Ernest S. Leopold, executive vice president of communications papers, which supplies some paper to the packaging sector and shares four plants with the tissue makers, says it is out of the question: "There is no thought of the three businesses spinning off, because none can divorce itself completely from the others."
Charles E. Eberle, executive vice president of the consumer business, is not so sure: "There is no question that the board will periodically evaluate the data to see if it's time for them to become separate businesses."
Norman K. Ryan, the packaging business's new chief, wants to table the question: "Spinning off is an intriguing possiblity, but first we have to find ways to utilize our plants and people better."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Co-founders Brenton Halsey, left, and Robert Williams in Richmond with a 19th-century paper machine. (Tim Wright for The New York Times); graphs: revenues and earnings for James River Corp., 1981-1991 (1991, first qtr.); charts: current and planned business mix, for James River Corp. (Source: James River Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: K (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (69%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (69%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (69%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FORT JAMES CORP (94%); KELLOGG CO (69%); FRITO-LAY INC (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAMES RIVER CORP

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (91%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (89%); SPECIALTY PAPERS (78%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BRANDING (68%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H; WILLIAMS, ROBERT C MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



121 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
The Coming Squeeze on Capital

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HORMATS; Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman, Sachs International, was Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs in the Reagan Administration.

 BODY:
IN every international political crisis since World War II, the dollar has strengthened -- until now. Since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, the dollar has fallen sharply. It is no longer the most important safe-haven currency.
The dollar's current weakness should serve as a warning that in the international competition for capital of the 1990's, the United States risks coming up short. Faced with a tightening of bank credit, the savings and loan crisis and cuts in foreign investment, Washington confronts a critical question: Will sufficient capital be available to finance vigorous growth in the decade ahead? 
 Urged on by the United States and others, Japan is spending more on domestic consumption and infrastructure investment. Once major lenders to the rest of the world, Japan's banks now have capital problems of their own due to declining stock and real estate values.
German capital flows will also be constrained. The reconstruction of Eastern Germany will require more than $50 billion annually for several years, leading to higher budget deficits in Bonn and a curtailment of capital outflows.
Higher oil prices will also cut into capital exports from Germany and Japan. At the same time, the Soviet Union, the new democracies of Eastern Europe, a number of Latin American countries and the dynamic economies of Asia are all seeking billions of dollars of new investment.
Despite the Federal Reserve's recent easing of interest rates, intense global competition for capital will give rates an upward bias. This is likely to coax out new sources of capital, but even so, overwhelming demand will enable lenders to demand high returns and tough conditions.
This will pose a serious problem for the United States. Even with the new budget agreement, the United States will still have to import $100 billion annually from foreign sources to finance the Federal deficit and new private investment. But in recent months, the inflow of long-term capital has plummeted as foreign investors have sold their stocks, dramatically cut their purchases of bonds and sharply curtailed direct investment.
How can Washington insure sufficient capital to finance growth and investment in the 90's?
* The new budget agreement must be faithfully implemented over the next five years to reduce the government's call on private savings and to free up funds for private investment.
* The integrity of the financial system must be bolstered by resolving regulatory conflicts, eliminating impediments to financial competitiveness and correcting abuses.
* In spite of pressure, the Federal Reserve must sustain its efforts to control inflation and maintain a stable dollar. Big price increases, or the adoption of an artificially low dollar policy, will discourage capital and force up long-term interest rates.
* If the United States cannot generate savings sufficient to meet domestic investment needs, it needs to attract substantial foreign capital or suffer lower growth. To sustain domestic support for an open-door investment policy, the United States should secure from other nations a similar degree of openness to investment.
* In current world trade negotiations -- the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade -- the United States and its partners should dismantle trade barriers that distort resource flows. They should also slash the multibillion-dollar subsidies they provide to agriculture and to other sectors of their economies. In a savings-tight environment, such waste is particularly damaging to growth.
If we follow these prescriptions, the competition for capital is more likely to go our way.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert D. Hormats (Goldman Sachs); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); GERMANY (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (52%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); WORLD WAR II (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%); INFLATION (71%); CONSUMPTION (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); 

PERSON: HORMATS, ROBERT D

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



122 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
A Company Gives Up on New York

BYLINE: By STUART MEYERS; Stuart Meyers, a principal in Brothers Communication, is moving his business to Connecticut. He is also writing a novel.

 BODY:
FOR more than 20 years, my brothers and I have run a small, family-owned business in Manhattan that installs and maintains telephone systems and offers consulting services. But now we are moving out. We have finally lost our appetite for the Big Apple.
In the past five years, 30 percent of our customer base has gone out of business, downsized their city operations, or relocated out of the city. Crime -- violent and otherwise -- a crumbling infrastructure, rising taxes, soaring costs and mounting social problems do not describe occasional events. They define the conditions that for us, and other small businesses, have called into question the logic of staying in New York. Modern telecommunications technologies have made it possible to locate our business anywhere. 
 The city's social problems took on a new and vivid meaning for me a couple of years ago when an employee showed up after an unexplained absence of four days. When I asked him what had happened, he calmly said words that I will never forget: "I killed someone," he explained.
But Jan. 5, 1990, proved to be our high-water mark in the city. On that day, a water main on Fifth Avenue and 19th Street cracked open, flooding the basement of the building that houses our offices. The flood took out the utilities and elevator service. Faced with the prospect of having to climb 10 flights of stairs to an office without heat or working toilets, our small office staff quit.
After the flood, only 2 of our 14 telephone lines remained in service -- a big handicap if your business is telephones. We could no longer solicit new business and only with great difficulty could we take care of our existing customers' needs. Soon cash flow became a trickle and our losses mounted. Without a staff or enough telephone lines, we had to visit our customers in person. Despite its herculean efforts, the New York Telephone Company took until May to repair the bulk of the damage.
One night shortly after the flood, feeling exhausted, I decided to go home and wait until morning to copy the data files in our computer. It was a bad mistake. Our offices were burglarized that night by thieves who -- unlike our departed staff -- were willing to walk up the 10 flights of stairs to our cold, waterless offices. Among the items stolen was the computer. Because our office had been burglarized twice before, our insurance premiums had become too high; to cut expenses, my brothers and I had allowed the policy to lapse. Another bad mistake. Over the years our vans were broken into with regularity. They also became too expensive to insure.
One night, when one van had mechanical trouble and could not be started, we were forced to leave it on the street. The following morning, my brothers and I discovered that the van had not only been vandalized -- which did not surprise us -- but also had been ticketed for being illegally parked. What was odd was that the thieves who vandalized our dead truck had somehow managed to move it up onto the sidewalk. Of course, tools and equipment were stolen. Yes, there were more delays incurred by our workers when they went out to find replacements. And, of course, we had to pay the ticket.
In New York, like all small businesses, we had to pay taxes on our commercial rent and our gross receipts. There was also the Metropolitan Transit Authority surcharge, a utility surcharge, and the tax on each spouse's out-of-state income. But what do we get for these taxes? I am not unique in feeling that I have been ripped off.
These direct and hidden costs have made small companies based in New York less competitive than those elsewhere. Over the years, sadly, they have also transformed doing business in New York from fun into a constant hassle.
For us, the issue was never so grandiose as "Can New York City survive?" -- the question the magazines ask. We are certain it will. The issue for us was simply: "Can we survive in New York?" We decided that we could not.


GRAPHIC: 
Photo: Stuart Meyers (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON NEW YORK INC (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROTHERS COMMUNICATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; SMALL BUSINESS SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BURGLARY (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); TRENDS (70%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MEYERS, STUART

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



123 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Managing;
The Trickle-Down Effect in Perks

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
PEPSICO INC. is giving its hourly workers the same stock options that top management gets. "We tell our people to act like owners, so it seemed right to give them the rewards of ownership, too," said David E. Scherb, Pepsico's vice president of employee benefits.
Workers at Borden Inc. get bonuses of up to $1,000 if their plants hit targets of safety, quality and productivity. "For too many years, only general managers got incentives for plant performance," said Allan L. Miller, Borden's chief administrative officer. 
 Long John Silver's Seafood Shoppes Inc. is rolling out a "gain-sharing" plan that awards hourly workers quarterly bonuses on the basis of improvement in their specific restaurant's bottom line. "One of the best ways to create a spirit of teamwork is to reward it economically," said R. William Flock, the restaurant chain's senior vice president of human resources.
Slowly but surely, American companies are starting to give lower-level employees financial goodies that were once considered the sole purview of management. According to a recent survey of 644 companies conducted by Sibson & Company Inc., human resource consultants in Princeton N.J., nearly half the companies with variable pay plans -- bonuses, profit sharing and the like -- include hourly employees in those plans. That is an increase of 20 percent over 1989, and most experts say more companies are hopping on the egalitarian bandwagon every day.
"Companies are recognizing that they must motivate and reward top performing employees at all levels," said Charles Cumming, a Sibson principal. Wendy B. Gray, a benefits specialist at the Conference Board, a New York business research group, put it more bluntly: "Employees are more likely to come up with suggestions if they see what's in it for them."
Apparently, the pendulum has swung back to its starting point. Back in the 1960's and early 1970's, American managers routinely assumed that any morale problem or productivity lag could be solved with a raise. When that didn't work, those same managers embraced the idea that participatory management, public praise and other methods of showing respect would motivate workers far more than cash.
In fact, they do -- to a point. But now, many companies are admitting that it really does take money, as well as pats on the back, to keep a workforce humming along.
"If you want to have all of your people working toward the same goals, management-only incentive programs must go by the wayside," said Peter H. Forster, chairman of DPL Inc., which owns Dayton Power and Light. For the last few years, the utility has been setting specific objectives -- say, that equipment should be running 90 percent of the time -- and giving bonuses, up and down the line, in the same percentages of salary for meeting them.
AT most companies, the goals and financial incentives for lower-level people are comparable to, but not identical to, those for higher-level ones.
At Long John Silver, the top 3,000 managers already participate in a cash bonus plan that is tied to the value of the company's stock and that pays out once a year. Come Christmas, the 16,000 store-level people will start getting quarterly bonuses, based on revenue and profit increases, if any, in their restaurant over the same quarter a year before.
"Managers are expected to have a longer time horizon, and to have an impact on the entire company's performance," said Mr. Flock. "We want the crew people to be rewarded for things they can control, and to get paid immediately, in cash."
Clearly, the workers welcome that attitude. James E. Stahl, a customer service specialist at a Long John Silver restaurant in Austin, Tex., says the crew in his restaurant already is doing more "upselling" -- trying to interest customers in larger portions or more expensive items -- and more "suggestive selling" -- persuading customers that they want, say, an ear of corn or a piece of pie or a larger drink with their shrimp.
"Now we feel that every piece of pie we sell gives us more money," he said. "It won't be a lot, maybe an extra $25 a week. But even that little bit is a new pair of pants or a night out on the town."

 
WHAT'S AVAILABLE IN THE FRINGES
 MONEY is not the only management perk moving down the corporate ladder. Fringe benefits once reserved for only the whitest of collars also are filtering through the work force.
Dayton Power and Light, for one, has made training sessions and executive wellness programs available to employees at all levels. And it has extended its career preference program, which matches jobs with employees' interests, downward as well. According to Peter H. Forster, DPL chairman, 340 of the 450 lower-level people who have applied for job changes in the last two and a half years have gotten their first choice.
Financial planning assistance has become a more common, if still stratified, perk, too. "Many of the large companies that provide financial planning services to upper-level executives are providing lesser amounts to lower-level people," said Wallace L. Head, director of Arthur Andersen & Company's individual services practice.
One example: The Monsanto Company, which has long offered paid-for financial planning to its executives, now is offering a truncated version for all employees, as part of its new flexible benefits plan. "We have felt for a long time that deciding who needs what benefits is a bit too paternalistic," said J. R. Walters, Monsanto's manager of compensation and benefits.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Stahl, now in line for quarterly bonuses at a Long John Silver's in Austin, Tex. (Zigy Kaluzny for The New York Times )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (94%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (60%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (60%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (94%); LONG JOHN SILVER'S INC (71%); DPL INC (60%); DAYTON POWER & LIGHT CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; BONUSES EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (74%); RESTAURANTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



124 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
The Ultimate in Bears and Bulls

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:

JAMES M. BENHAM, chairman of the Benham Capital Management Group, in Mountain View, Calif., remembers what it feels like to be poor. His father supported 10 children on a minister's salary, and at dinner, he said, the rule was, "Pass the potatos, no stops." That's because if each child took an extra scoop, the bowl would be empty before it made it around the table. By the time he went to college, on scholarship, he wanted "to major in money on the theory that some would rub off on me," he said.
Perhaps that explains a bit why Mr. Benham, whose firm now manages $6.6 billion in 21 mainly fixed-income funds, is particularly sensitive to economic downturns. For him, the current bear market looks unusually vicious and unlikely to retreat soon. 
 Mr. Benham is perhaps the biggest bear in the industry, and the bleakness of his view sets him at odds with most of his colleagues. Chief executive officers, economists and money managers at 10 large mutual fund groups, asked by The New York Times to assess the economy and the markets, agree that the bottom has not been reached yet. But beyond that, a solid majority sees better times by the end of next year or early in 1992. Indeed, the most optimistic -- Jon S. Fossel, chairman of the Oppenheimer Management Corporation -- predicts a rally marking the start of the turnaround early in 1991.
Mr. Fossel said he believes the stock market will bottom out in the next three or four months. In the 25 worst-performing months since World War II, he said, the Dow Jones industrial average fell an average of 12 percent. During the market free fall in August -- one of those 25 months -- the Dow dropped 11 percent. Historically, he said, it has taken one year for the stock market to fall from peak to trough. During that time, the market lost an average of 25 percent of its value.
Using those gauges, he said, there is still room for the Dow to fall. It has dropped about 20 percent in three months from its peak of nearly 3,000 in July. Furthermore, Mr. Fossel said, six months after the market hits bottom, the Dow traditionally rises 12 percent; a year later, it is up 23 percent and after 18 months, it has risen 34 percent.
That may all sound nice, Mr. Benham said, but it's humbug. Looking at the past is useless, he said, because "we've never been here before." Mr. Benham says that there are factors at work that pull the current environment out of the historical framework. The "wealth effect," for example, which arises when consumers feel poor, will be so profound as to cause a ripple effect through the 90's. The wealth effect in this case has arisen because of the declining value of peoples' homes -- and it will cause consumers to cut back on their spending.
It's a new idea for many Americans that homes -- generally a person's biggest investment -- can lose value. Real estate values have risen so steadily and for so long that this sudden reversal will have a dramatic impact. The heady spending spree that marked the 80's has come to an abrupt halt, replaced by frugal savings and consumption patterns.
Mr. Benham favors specialty funds, like gold equity index and target maturity funds, and "his are very good at what they do," said Don Phillips, vice president of Morningstar Inc., Chicago-based mutual fund consultants. So when Mr. Benham says there is more bad news, people listen.
 For instance, he pointed out, Americans are borrowing more but producing less. Last year, 70 percent of corporate income was used to pay interest on debt. There were record-breaking numbers of personal bankruptcies.
The result, he said, is that the recession we are entering will not be like any we have seen before. The slowdown in real estate and the huge national debt, compounded by the oil shock, means "it doesn't look comfortable to me in the 90's," said Mr. Benham. He gives 4-to-1 odds that there will be a worldwide depression. "After every long party, there's always a hangover," he said.
Given this gloom-and-doom outlook, what's an investor to do? He suggests lightening up on stocks. Build a big cash cushion and stash it safely in money-market funds or Treasury bills. Put part of it into bond funds.
If there is a recession without higher inflation, interest rates will drop to about 5 percent for short rates, and 7 percent at the long end of the yield curve, he said. Investors in bond funds, especially zero-coupon bonds, would profit. But if the recession is coupled with higher inflation, short-term rates will stay at about 7.5 percent and long rates could rise toward 10 percent. He advises people to stay with mid-range maturities of about four to seven years.
The bottom line: "I founded this company with the knowledge that the 'full faith and credit' pledge is more than a paper promise," Mr. Benham told investors recently. In the event of a worldwide collapse, real wealth -- gold reserves, as well as mineral and timber resources -- backs American Government securities. His conclusion: "That's a solid fallback position."
 
When Risk Doesn't Pay Off
THE more risk you assume, the higher the return, right? That has always been a basic investing assumption, but the results shown in the accompanying chart set that fundamental rule of investing on its ear.
Ten years should be enough time to smooth out market quirks. But this particular 10-year period reflects an historical anomoly: a time when high-risk funds underperformed the low-risk ones.
What happened? During most of that time, the smaller-capitalization stocks favored by the high-risk funds took a beating. Under such conditions, the portfolio managers simply could not do well.
For investors, there are two lessons, according to Charles Trzcinka, associate professor of finance at the State University of New York at Buffalo, who analyzed the data. First, he said, fund categories do not always deliver what they promise. Second, the riskier the fund, the longer you should plan to hold your shares.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James M. Benham, pessimist. (Chuck Garthard); Chart: Average total return for stock funds with more than 450 million of assets for the 10 years ending June 30. (Source: Charles Trzcinka)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER MANAGEMENT CORP (67%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); BONDS (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; BENHAM, JAMES; FOSSEL, JON S

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



125 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Predators Kill Maine's Caribou Restoration Effort

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: AUGUSTA, Me., Nov. 3

 BODY:
The organizer of a private effort to restore caribou to the wilds of Maine, where that deer species has been largely extinct for about 80 years, says the project has failed, a victim of predators.
The organizer, the Maine Caribou Project Inc., announced Wednesday that it was abandoning the four-year-old effort. Project officials said they doubted that they could raise the money needed to transplant enough caribou to create a self-sustaining herd. 
 Of the 32 caribou released in Maine, 25 are confirmed dead -- 12 killed by bears or coyotes. The remaining seven are unaccounted for, but biologists believe that only two or three are alive and that the caribou have apparently lost the radio collars used to keep track of them.
Four caribou calves were born in the wild. Two died of unknown causes; the others were killed by a bear and a bobcat.
 
Excessive Hunting and Disease
 Caribou once were so abundant in Maine's north woods that a city was named after the animal. But excessive hunting and disease left them extinct in Maine more than 80 years ago.
The restoration effort, which began with a caribou roundup in a remote corner of Newfoundland, was the second since 1963.
When the latest caribou releases were planned, the project leaders' principal concern was the brainworm, a deadly parasite.
Richard B. Anderson, a project spokesman, said none of the biologists had anticipated how critical the threat of bears threat would be.
"I think it's possible to restore the caribou to its former range," he added. "But you need a lot of animals."
But that would take more money than project leaders believe they can raise in a weakening economy.
Biologists believe they would need 50 to 100 more caribou to succeed, but it would cost $300,000 to capture, transport and monitor that many animals. The project officially ends Dec. 31.
 
Need Is Seen for Wide Support
 "We have come to realize that only under an extraordinary set of circumstances would it have been possible to complete a project of this magnitude without organizational and financial support of Federal or state wildlife agencies," project leaders said.
The project's failure shows that money "is far better spent to conserve Maine's endangered species today, while they still exist," they said.
The leaders said they would share information with officials in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Idaho, where similar projects are proposed or under way.
The last caribou from a native Maine herd was sighted on mile-high Mount Katahdin in 1908.
In 1963 two dozen caribou were released in Baxter State Park in northern Maine. All of them disappeared because of poaching, disease, predators and natural dispersal, biologists believe.
In 1986 more than two dozen caribou in Newfoundland were shot with tranquilizer darts and transferred by helicopter and in trucks to enclosures at the University of Maine in Orono, 1,200 miles away.
Biologists kept this "nursery herd" in Orono to breed young caribou to be released in the state. Of the dozen released in Baxter park in April 1989, only one was known to have survived by the end of that year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MAINE

SUBJECT: CARIBOU; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES MAMMALS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); ANIMALS (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); STATE PARKS (73%); MOUNTAINS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



126 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 44; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: New York Rates Banks on Serving the Poor

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
For the first time, New York City is ranking banks eligible to do business with the city on how responsive they are to the needs of low-income communities.
The policy, which became effective late last week, is part of a broader strategy by the Dinkins administration to achieve what it calls "economic justice" for low-income New Yorkers. 
 Black and Hispanic residents of some low-income neighborhoods have long complained that discrimination prevents them from securing mortgages and business loans.
"The community-banking ratings provide a powerful incentive for banks to increase their commitment to our neighborhoods," Mr. Dinkins said.
 
Chemical Bank Scored Highest
 The city's Department of Finance ranked 28 banks on factors like the number of mortgages and business loans they offer in low-income areas, the extent of bilingual services, the number of branches in poor communities and the services offered to people on welfare.
Among big banks -- defined as those with assets of $10 billion or more -- Chemical Bank scored the highest, with 67.61 points out of 100. The other scores in the big-bank category were Citibank, 56.77; Manufacturers Hanover, 47.87; Chase Manhattan, 46.15; Republic National, 40.63; National Westminster, 21.65; Marine Midland, 18.05; Morgan Guaranty, 14.56, and Bankers Trust, 8.83.
Morgan Guaranty and Bankers Trust scored poorly because, unlike retail banks, they do not handle individual accounts.
Among small banks, New York National Bank, which is the smallest and is minority-owned, had the highest rating.
 
Criteria Called Unfair
 Thomas Parisi, a senior vice-president for Bankers Trust, said that given that it is not a retail bank, the criteria for rating comparisons were unfair. He said the bank has shown its community commitment in other ways, including making money available for low-income housing.
"We're disappointed that the rating system didn't reflect fully what we're doing," Mr. Parisi said. "We have no opportunity to score on those things like branches and bilingual services. We recognized awhile ago that as a wholesale bank we'd have to look at community support in a different way."
Marleen Bishop, a spokeswoman for Chemical Bank, said that the bank would begin publicizing its first-place rating.
Last year, the city did $38 million worth of business with 15 of the eligible banks. The new rankings account for 10 percent of the overall score those banks will receive when they compete to provide services to any city agency. A bank must submit to an annual community-banking rating to be eligible to bid on city banking contracts.
 
'Tear Down Artificial Barriers'
 Each city agency defines the financial and business criteria for its particular needs, but the community-service criteria are the same for each city department and must be included in every request for proposals issued by city agencies to banks.
"We want to tear down artificial barriers separating people from the credit they need to buy homes, build businesses and help live meaningful lives," said Carol O'Cleireacain, the city's Commissioner of Finance.
Ms. O'Cleireacain said the new rating system could make a difference between winning and losing a contract. She said bids are often separated by only two or three points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CHEMICAL BANK (57%); NEW YORK NATIONAL BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); RANKINGS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); WHOLESALE BANKING (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



127 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 42; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
Rinfret's True Opponent Isn't Cuomo

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Nov. 2

 BODY:
In the angry depictions of many Republican leaders, Herbert London is a man bent on wounding, perhaps even destroying, the Republican Party in New York State. But Mr. London, a registered Republican who is running for governor as the nominee of the Conservative Party, insists that the opposite is true.
"I'm not in this race to poke my finger in the eye of Republicans," a hoarse Mr. London told a campaign rally today, against the Art Deco backdrop of Buffalo's City Hall. "I'm in it because I believe I'm the prince, there to resuscitate a sleeping beauty called the Republican Party." 
 With Election Day almost at hand, there is wide agreement that the Republican's official gubernatorial nominee, Pierre A. Rinfret, is locked in a dogfight -- not with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, to whom he is expected to lose lopsidedly, but with Mr. London.
A poll of 1,032 voters, released this week by the nonpartisan Marist Institute showed Mr. London and Mr. Rinfret in a virtual dead heat, each about 50 percentage points behind Mr. Cuomo. The poll, which had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points, showed Mr. Rinfret with 13 percent and Mr. London with 11 percent. Mr. Cuomo had 64 percent, the Right-to-Life nominee, Louis P. Wein, had 3 percent, and the rest of the voters were undecided.
 
The Only True Conservative
 Mr. London's campaign emphasizes conservative economic policies, support for the death penalty and a "voucher" plan that would give parents greater latitude to choose between public and private schools.
Although Mr. Rinfret's campaign includes many of the same themes, Mr. London insists that he is the only true conservative in the race. Where Mr. Rinfret has talked about freezing government spending, Mr. London often points out, he has called for deep spending cuts.
His television commercials have sought to label Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Rinfret as liberals -- "Tweedledee" for the Governor and "Tweedledummer" for Mr. Rinfret. And in recent days he has barnstormed the state, urging voters to select him as the one rational alternative to the "bankrupt" policies of Mr. Cuomo and the "laughable" campaign of Mr. Rinfret.
But the real contest in this race, it seems, is not so much for first place as for second. If Mr. London does finish ahead of Mr. Rinfret, the Republican Party would lose its spot on the second row of the ballot in New York State for the next four years, and it would also forfeit joint control, with the Democrats, over every county Board of Elections in the state.
 
'Wake Up' the Party
 But far from being a calamity for Republicans, Mr. London tells voters that such a jolt is precisely what is needed to "wake up" the Republican Party and, in his view, to help compel its transformation from "the party of Nelson Rockefeller to the party of Ronald Reagan."
In any event, he adds at rallies and in an interviews, it is "patronizing" for Republican leaders to urge a vote for Mr. Rinfret, as some have done, simply to help preserve the privileges the G.O.P. now enjoys as the number two party in the state.
"When they say, 'Hold your nose and vote for Row B,' that is the worst form of condescension to rank-and-file Republicans that I could possibly describe," he said at a news conference here. "I mean, can you imagine Abraham Lincoln running on an independent line in this state and Republican leaders saying, 'Don't vote for Honest Abe, Vote for Row B'?' Come on." Row B, the second line on the voting machine, is now reserved for Republicans.
 
The Study of Classic Texts
 The 6-foot-5, Brooklyn-born Mr. London, who attended Columbia University on a basketball scholarship, is on leave as a dean of the Gallatin Division of New York University, which specializes in the study of classic texts. He ran briefly for Mayor of New York City last year.
In stump speeches he tends to emphasize his anti-tax, anti-spending stance, but in interviews he adds more complex economic proposals, including a "means test" for state university students seeking to take advantage of the system's low tuition, and abolition of rent controls in New York City for people making more than $150,000 a year.
Unlike Mr. Rinfret, who supports abortion rights, Mr. London says he is staunchly opposed to abortion, although he says that "in order to get legislation passed" he would tolerate exceptions in cases of rape, incest or when the life of the pregnant woman is at stake.
In response to questions from The Village Voice last month, Mr. London acknowledged that he had supported his wife's decision to have an abortion 13 years ago, when none of those factors was at issue, but he says he has since undergone a "personal odyssey" that led him to regret that decision and to change his position on abortion.
 
'Unequivocally Pro-Life'
 "There are two kinds of people in life," Mr. London said in an interview today. "Those who learn from their experience and those who don't. I learned, and that's one of the reasons why I am unequivocally pro-life."
Mr. London is also a staunch advocate of the death penalty, which he said is a necessary deterrent even if it leads to "rare cases" in which an innocent person is executed.
Despite the intensity of the sub-campaign involving him and Mr. Rinfret, Mr. London said today that he would use the remaining moments of the campaign -- including a debate Sunday in New York City -- to push for victory over all three of his opponents. "I'd like very much to be the Governor," he said. "And between now and Tuesday, I'm going to do everything I can to win. I'm going to be peripatetic. I'm going to go as fast and as far as I can."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Herbert London, Conservative Party nominee for Governor of New York, poses a threat to the Republicans. If he finishes ahead of Pierre A. Rinfret, theRepublican nominee, the Republicans would lose their spot on the second row of the ballot for the next four years. Mr. London campaigned in Buffalo. (David McLain for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PIERRE, SD, USA (75%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSERVATIVE PARTY (NY); REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); 

PERSON: RINFRET, PIERRE A; LONDON, HERBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



128 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Peace Hopes Dim in Londonderry

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDONDERRY, Northern Ireland, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Before last week's attacks in which the Irish Republican Army forced civilians to act as "human bombs," the people of the city had dared to hope that they might be allowed to pioneer what Northern Ireland longed for most: peace.
Two years of relative calm and a series of successes in persuading companies from the United States and elsewhere to build factories, offices, stores and a hotel had given rise to a spirit of optimism among Roman Catholics and Protestants. 
 But the optimism has given way to foreboding since Oct. 24, when the I.R.A. forced three Catholic civilians whom it accused of collaborating with British security forces to drive vehicles carrying remote-controlled bombs to border checkpoints near Londonderry and Newry and a British Army camp at Omagh.
While the I.R.A. had forced civilians to deliver its bombs before, in the past the drivers were given time to escape.
 
A Wave of Revulsion
 The attack here was the most devastating. Five British soldiers and the driver, Patrick Gillespie, a 42-year-old kitchen worker at an army camp, died. Six other soldiers were seriously wounded.
Throughout Northern Ireland, the attacks generated a wave of revulsion among Catholic nationalists who want a united Ireland and Protestant unionists who want Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom. Adding to the gloom, a British Government attempt to get political talks going seems near collapse. Such talks would be aimed at devising a Government structure that could end 18 years of direct rule from London.
More than 2,000 Catholics and Protestants packed a church for Mr. Gillespie's funeral last Saturday. In one of his most vitriolic attacks on the I.R.A., Bishop Edward Daly said at the Requiem Mass that the I.R.A. had "crossed a new threshold of evil."
 
Fear of a Wave of Terror
 The widespread fear in this city, and throughout Northern Ireland, is that what was widely seen as the callous ruthlessness exhibited by the I.R.A. in the human-bomb attacks could herald more terror and destruction.
 Security officials also seem worried by the I.R.A.'s successful use of remote-controlled bombs. That indicates the I.R.A. has developed a capability to thwart the army's and police's electronic countermeasures, which for years have protected patrols and bases from remote-controlled attacks.
 
Surge in Number of Deaths
 There has also been a surge in the number of deaths in the last month or so. [A killing on Friday pushed this year's toll in the province to 64, two more than the total killed in all of 1989.]
One fear in Londonderry is that the I.R.A. will step up attacks on the economic targets and scare off investments that the city desperately needs, Mayor David Davis, a conciliatory unionist, said.
While Northern Ireland's unemployment rate is 14.1 percent, the rate is 22.3 percent in Londonderry, the second-largest city in Ulster. In some Catholic neighborhoods here, mill unemployment is as much as 60 percent.
 
Working Together
 That explains why nobody expects mass resignations by Catholic civilians employed by the police and army. "It's not clear people have choices," said Mark Durkan, an aide to John Hume, the Catholic leader of the nonviolent Social Democratic and Labor Party who lives here. "Obviously Patsy Gillespie's circumstances didn't let him get out." In 1986, Mr. Gillespie had been forced to deliver to the same army base an I.R.A. bomb, which was defused.
While there are divisions between Protestants and Catholics here, there is not nearly as much antagonism as in Belfast. Pragmatic Catholics and Protestants here have managed to put aside their political differences to work together to attract investment to restore the city, which had been ravaged by bombings in the 1970's and early 1980's.
About 60 percent of Northern Ireland's population is Protestant and about 40 percent is Catholic but here Catholics account for about two-thirds of the nearly 100,000 people. The biggest party is the S.D.L.P., which also is supported by most Catholics.
 
Fear of More Divisions
 There are worries that any sustained increase in violence will widen divisions between Protestants and Catholics. But for the moment, the I.R.A.'s new tactic and damage and wounds inflicted on a mixed working-class neighborhood by the same bombs seem to have united many in outrage.
"There are more and more people saying, 'no way am I giving in to that kind of intimidation,' " said John W. Adams, local head of the Ulster Unionists, Northern Ireland's biggest Protestant party.
People with contacts in the poor Catholic neighborhoods where republican support is the strongest say Mr. Gillespie's death has sparked a backlash against the I.R.A. But they were skeptical that it would result in a significant erosion of support for the I.R.A. or its political arm, Sinn Fein.
"All the British have to do is raid 20 or 30 houses and start coming down heavy again" on republican areas and support for the I.R.A. will bounce back, said Patrick McArt, editor of the Derry Journal, a twice-weekly newspaper.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

COMPANY: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (92%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (IRA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHERN IRELAND; LONDONDERRY (NORTHERN IRELAND)

SUBJECT: BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; TERRORISM CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (56%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



129 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 36; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
At End, More Pressure on Feinstein

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN BERNARDINO, Calif., Nov. 2

 BODY:
They were the kind of voters Dianne Feinstein had to motivate to win, elderly Mexican-Americans at the Casa Ramona Community Center here amid the vast suburbs east of Los Angeles. "I need your help -- we need to mobilize our vote," the Democratic candidate urged them on Friday, after a lunch of tamales, beans and rice.
But as the heated race for governor of California nears an end, the newest opinion polls carry ominous signs for Ms. Feinstein in her battle against Senator Pete Wilson. 
 Experts say the former Mayor of San Francisco is being hurt by rapidly changing world events, a worsening economy, a well-financed opponent, an effective Republican get-out-the-vote drive and what some say is an unfocused Democratic campaign.
In the nonpartisan California Poll, conducted Oct. 26-30, Senator Wilson had widened his lead to eight percentage points, 47 to 39 percent, in a sample of 1,248 voters; the margin of sampling error was three percentage points either way. A poll of 1,993 registered voters, taken over the same period by The Los Angeles Times, said Mr. Wilson was ahead, 43 to 42 percent, within a three-percentage-point margin of sampling error. But Mr. Wilson's lead grew to five to seven points when poll takers weighted the numbers to assume, as many experts do, that Republicans are more likely to show up on Election Day.
 
Seen as 'Underdog'
 After lunch here, Ms. Feinstein acknowledged to reporters she was behind in the polls, but she added: "I've always had to run as the underdog. People said, 'You cannot win.' I've heard it for better than 20 years. People always projected I would lose. But we won."
She then set off on a final campaign blitz around the state, including an old-fashioned whistle-stop train tour on Saturday through the agricultural Central Valley, where in polls she runs far behind Senator Wilson. For his part, the Republican was getting a heavy boost from two Republican Presidents: a rally with President Bush on Saturday morning in Thousand Oaks and another with Ronald Reagan in Alta Loma the same afternoon. Mr. Wilson appears to be benefiting by the steadily growing Republican makeup of the California electorate.
The Feinstein campaign planned to base its final effort on intensifying her image as the energetic candidate of change, with a final barrage of television commercials tying Mr. Wilson to the Republican Governor, George Deukmejian, and the ills of smog, traffic and rapid growth. "The election is essentially going to be about a comfortable old shoe who represents the status quo and the candidate who clearly articulates change from the last eight years of Republican rule," said Ms. Feinstein's campaign manager, Bill Carrick.
 
Rain on a Candidacy?
 But change may be just what the voters do not want now, said Mervin Field, director of the California Poll, saying that the economy and the Persian Gulf crisis had made voters cautious. "These external events tap deep-seated views of the public," he said. "They are less willing to make changes in political leadership. The public opts for a steady hand on the tiller, and not just chauvinistic men feel that way. The darkening economic clouds rain on the Feinstein candidacy."
Joseph Scott, editor of The California Eye, a political newsletter, said: "She started with fire, a lot of press, glitz, star quality. But I do not see a possibility of her winning this race. Her issues -- education, environment, social issues -- are just not cutting. Given the economic situation and the possibility of war, this is not a take-a-chance climate."
Ms. Feinstein assailed what she called the "sex stereotyping" that has placed a "glass ceiling" above female candidates, keeping them out of the top jobs in politics. "Men are looked on as better managers," she said, adding, "I'm a good manager -- I take responsibility."
But close analysis of the latest survey results was not encouraging to the Democrat. Her appeal to women is not nearly as strong as had been widley anticipated. In the California Poll, Mr. Wilson led by 46 to 40 percent among women, compared with 48 to 36 percent among men; The Los Angeles Times poll had Ms. Feinstein leading among women by 6 points, but Mr. Wilson ahead among men by 9 points.
 
Wilson Camp 'Ecstatic'
 "We have been showing there is no gender gap," said Mr. Wilson's press secretary, Bill Livingstone, who said the Wilson camp was "ecstatic" about the polling data.
Mr. Wilson appears to be benefiting heavily from the growing Republican character of California and the more loyal voting patterns of Republicans. Ms. Feinstein's efforts to portray herself as a political centrist at odds with liberals, as tough on crime and a proponent of the death penalty, do not appear to have altered basic political perceptions in a state that, though otherwise dominated by Democratic elected officials, twice elected Mr. Reagan and Mr. Deukmejian as Governor and Mr. Wilson as Senator.
The California Poll said Mr. Wilson got the support of three-quarters of Republicans while only 12 percent defected to Ms. Feinstein. Ms. Feinstein had only 62 percent of Democrats; one in four Democrats said they would vote for Mr. Wilson.
Ms. Feinstein's strongest support came from California's liberals, only 20 percent of voters, while Mr. Wilson had heavy leads among those in the middle and on the right.
 
'Viewed as a Liberal'
 "Despite her record as a moderate, she's still viewed as a liberal," Mr. Field said. "She suffers from the public's stereotypical view of Democrats as liberals."
Geographically, Senator Wilson leads in polls of voters in his home area, San Diego, where he was once Mayor, in conservative Orange County, and in the agricultural Central Valley. Ms. Feinstein is well ahead in the Bay Area. Ominously for Ms. Feinstein, The Los Angeles Times poll said she was ahead by only 2 points in populous Los Angeles County, where a large minority population normally gives Democrats a good plurality.
Working against the Democrat are rapidly changing demographics. Democratic registration has been dropping steadily in recent years. According to the Secretary of State, registered Democrats this year outnumber Republicans by 49.5 percent to 39.2 percent. But many political experts say this exaggerates Democratic strength and that, on Election Day the actual turnout is likely to show a 48-to-42 percent balance.
 
Republican Outspend
 Moreover, the Republicans have outspent the Democrats by $5 million in getting out their vote. They have sent absentee ballot applications to every registered Republican, while the Democrats have done that only for occasional voters. One in five Californians now votes by mail.
Against all this, political experts say, Ms. Feinstein has not been able to ignite the public enthusiasm with which she overwhelmingly won the Democratic primary last June against Attorney General John K. Van de Kamp.
"The race is still fluid, but objectively, I have to give the edge to Wilson," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political analyst at the Claremont Graduate School, who is a Democrat. "I just have not seen her give people a strong enough reason to vote for her."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Pete Wilson, the Republican candidate for governor of California, reviewing the graduating class at the Los Angeles Police Academy on Friday during a uniform inspection. (Associated Press); Dianne Feinstein, the Democratic candidate, has acknowledged that she trails Mr. Wilson in polls. She greeted a pupil on Friday at the Casa Romana Community Center and School in San Bernardino. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%); CASA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); SMOG (60%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT; FEINSTEIN, DIANNE; WILSON, PETE (SEN) DIANNE FEINSTEIN (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



130 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
Weld Hopes Personality (His Opponent's) Will Help Him in Massachusetts

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
William F. Weld, the Republican candidate for governor, stood in the African Meeting House, the oldest black church in the country, to receive endorsements on Friday from an array of well known local liberals, including feminists, union leaders, blacks and homosexuals.
A tall, patrician Harvard graduate whose ancestors first landed in Boston in 1630 and whose father was a New York investment banker, Mr. Weld seemed an unlikely choice for some of the speakers, most of whom said they had never voted for a Republican before. 
 But one after another, they explained that they were frightened by Mr. Weld's Democratic opponent, John R. Silber, the president of Boston University, whose acerbic comments about working women, drug dealers and homosexuals have offended many people.
"This is a contest for governor between two Republicans," said Jerome Grossman, a former Democratic national committeeman. "I disagree with both of them on many issues, but I am voting for Bill Weld, because I believe John Silber is temperamentally unfit for public office. The issue here is character, not politics."
Anne Bernays, an author from Cambridge, said Dr. Silber had made statements "that are not only inappropriate, they are off the wall" She added, "He's not only unfit to be governor, I think he's unfit to be the head of Boston University."
 
'Dr. Know-It All'
 And Domenic Bozzotto, president of Local 26 of the Hotel and Restaurant Workers, said this about Dr. Silber: "Dr. Know-It-All is nothing more than George Wallace with a brain."
Throughout the proceedings, Mr. Weld, who is 45 years old, applauded with awkward enthusiasm and smiled a schoolboyish grin, blushing slightly under his bright red hair.
The endorsements came as Mr. Weld pressed Dr. Silber in the one area where he has shown vulnerability -- what is called the temperament issue. With only two days left before Tuesday's election, Mr. Weld was closing in on Dr. Silber, who had held a narrow lead in the polls.
While Mr. Weld turned in a lackluster performance in their final debate Tuesday, he has been buoyed this week by a strongly worded endorsedment from The Boston Globe, generally regarded as sympathetic to liberal Democrats.
 
Party Has Huge Edge
 Democrats outnumber Republicans in Massachusetts by 4 to 1, and the Republicans have not won the Governor's office since 1970. So it is important for Mr. Weld, a former United States Attorney, to cut into Dr. Silber's base among Democrats.
In this year of enormous public anger over Massachusetts's economic decline and a prolonged state budget crisis, the Republicans have their best chance to win in years. But Mr. Weld has been somewhat overshadowed by the tempestuous, argumentative Dr. Silber.
By contrast, Mr. Weld comes across as more modest, with a quirky Brahmin sense of humor and an amiable if preppy charm. In the early stages of the campaign, Mr. Weld, who has put more than $1 million of his own fortune into the race, looked stiff and ill at ease in public, but he has relaxed and become more self-confident.
Like Dr. Silber, Mr. Weld is hard to categorize politically. He was once a member of the American Civil Liberties Union. But he also supported Philip Crane over Ronald Reagan for President in 1980 because he found the former Illinois Congressman more conservative.
 
'Attila' on Crime
 Mr. Weld is moderate to liberal on social issues, favoring abortion rights, strict protection for the environment and the distribution of condoms in high schools to prevent AIDS. Liberals also cite his 1987 resignation as an assistant attorney general in protest over the ethical problems of his boss, Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d.
He opposes restricting the use of semiautomatic assault rifles. And he favors the death penalty, saying he would stop coddling prison inmates by taking away their television sets and make them break rocks. "On crime issues, I'm Attila the Hun," he remarked last year. "There's no room to my right."
Mr. Weld is also a strong fiscal conservative, backing a tax-cutting ballot measure that would force the next Governor to cut the $13 billion state budget by $1.2 billion in the first six months of 1991 and another $2.4 billion in the following year. Dr. Silber argues that the proposal would be a "fiscal disaster," imperiling many state programs and services.
Mr. Weld at first strongly supported the initiative, which was wildly popular among many voters, especially conservatives and Republicans. But as the state's economy has continued to decline and state revenues have dropped, the tax-slashing plan has lost some of its support, and Mr. Weld has said he would delay putting the cuts into effect. But Dr. Silber still has tried to use the issue to keep moderates and liberals from defecting to Mr. Weld.
 
Where He Would Trim
 In an interview this week, Mr. Weld insisted he could make the budget cuts. He would find the excess, he said, by going into what are known as the "budget busters," expensive programs like Medicaid and state employee pension plans that are fixed by law. "They are not untouchable; there are more efficient ways of managing them," Mr. Weld said.
A summa cum laude graduate of Harvard College, as well as a graudate of the Harvard Law School, Mr. Weld is married to a law school classmate who is a great-granddaughter of President Theodore Roosevelt. The Welds live with their five children in a large early-19th-century Federalist house off Brattle Street in Cambridge, normally a liberal address. He is an enthusiastic hunter and fisherman.
During his stint as United States Attorney in Boston, Mr. Weld developed a reputation as a tough prosecutor, winning convictions against officials of former Mayor Kevin H. White's administration, as well as members of Boston's organized crime family.
In the campaign, Mr. Weld's brand of literate, upper-class humor sometimes left reporters confused. Once, when asked where he got his money, Mr. Weld paraphrased an old Boston joke about a Beacon Hill matron: "We don't get money, we have money."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William F. Weld (The New York Times/Rick Friedman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (55%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (84%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (84%); HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (54%); HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US) POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); WOMEN WORKERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); BUDGETS (60%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; WELD, WILLIAM F; SILBER, JOHN R (DR) JOHN ROBERT SILBER (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



131 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 46; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Higher Bond Costs Seen for New York

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
Even if Mayor David N. Dinkins can reassure investors that New York City's finances are well managed, the city will probably pay sharply higher interest costs the next time it tries to raise money in the bond market, financial experts say.
Mr. Dinkins will face an important test on Thursday, they say, when the administration is to release a revised financial plan, showing how it will begin to grapple with a worsening economy and growing budget deficits. 
 In the unlikely event that the city's financial monitors and the credit rating agencies find the plan inadequate, the city could have trouble selling the $950 million in bonds that it plans to issue next month, bond traders and analysts say.
But even if Mr. Dinkins passes this test -- and he has already taken a series of increasingly harsh steps in the last few days to reassure the financial community -- the traders and analysts say the city's credibility with investors remains damaged from an earlier period of confusing signals and commitments.
 
'There Is Skepticism'
 "I think the city is going to come through," said Thomas Caffrey, a bond broker and president of Titus & Donnelly. "It is a matter of what they are going to have to pay."
One underwriter of city bond issues, who asked not to be identified, observed, "There is skepticism about the city's sincerity, its ability to deal with the budget gaps in a fiscally responsible way."
Already the City Comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman, is forecasting that a $1.3 billion short-term note sale later this month will cost the city $7 million more than previously planned this year, because of rising interest costs.
The city could be forced to pay tens of millions of dollars in higher interest costs on its next sale of long-term bonds, even after taking into account overall changes in interest rates, analysts said.
City officials say they are aware of the concerns of investors and planning an extended information campaign to convince them that the city is capable of managing its affairs even in the face of an economic downturn.
"If the city develops a credible plan, we will have access to the markets at a reasonable price," Ms. Holtzman said. "The fact that the administration knows it will have to run that gantlet is an important discipline."
 
Bond Sale Postponed
 The city's Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, said the administration was focusing on those concerns as it made a major effort to prepare what is usually a routine revision of its financial plan.
Because of concern over the next bond sale, Mr. Dinkins and Ms. Holtzman agreed to postpone it by a month, until December, to give them more time to reach out to investors.
The city is planning to go ahead with a sale of $1.3 billion in short-term notes later this month. But rather than holding an auction, as it has in the last few years, it will negotiate the interest rate with the city's underwriters.
Aides to Miss Holtzman said the city's strategy was governed by the concern that it had a complicated story to tell investors. Since-tax exempt notes are usually bought by institutions rather than by individual investors, the story is easier to convey.
 
Unsettled Municipal Bond Market
 Similarly, they said, when a note is a known commodity, auctions often produce lower interest costs. But when sales are large or complicated, or the market is in flux, negotiations may allow the city to sell bonds paying slightly less interest. City officials are hoping that with few other note sales scheduled this month, the notes will do well -- and thus ease the way for the bond sale next month.
One backdrop to the city's worsening credit picture is an unsettled municipal bond market, in which investors are forsaking riskier investments in cities with problems in favor of safer, higher-rated issues. This has driven up interest costs for cities with problems.
Another is New York City's special place in the bond market. It is the largest borrower in the municipal bond market, it is home to much of the municipal bond industry and its brush with bankruptcy in the 1970's was one of the seminal events in the industry. Bad news about New York travels fast.
During one confusing week in early October -- in which Mr. Dinkins agreed to a 5.5 percent salary increase for teachers, announced a plan to hire thousands of police officers and warned that 15,000 city workers might have to be laid off -- the price of New York City bonds fell sharply, and the yields rose.
 
Cut in Rating Is Possible
 The administration's confusing signals confounded the bond market. They came two weeks after the city completed its most successful bond sale, in which the city had to pay the lowest interest rates since Mr. Dinkins took office. Bear Stearns, the lead underwriter, either lost money or narrowly broke even on the deal. Underwriters, usually a group of investment banks, agree before a bond sale to buy the whole issue and then try to resell it at a profit.
After the bond prices fell, Standard & Poor's put the city's $13 billion of outstanding bonds on its Credit Watch list, and warned that if the city did not get on top of its fiscal problems, it could see its rating drop from A to BBB -- the lowest that is still called "investment grade" by the rating services, just above what would be, in effect, "junk bonds."
In the next few weeks, as the administration rushed to reassure the financial community by cutting spending, warning of as many as 35,000 layoffs and pressuring unions for lower wage settlements, bond prices stopped falling. But they remained close to the high levels of early October.
 
Lower Return
 On Friday, long-term city bonds were yielding a return of about 8.6 percent, after going as high as 8.8 percent in some transactions, traders said. Traders said New York City bonds were already trading as if they had a BBB rating or lower. In early October, they were selling to yield 8.25 percent. A bond's yield is what the investor who buys it gets on it. This can be more or less than the interest paid by the borrower. If the yield is higher, the buyer will pay a lower price, less than the face value of the bond. If the yield is lower, the buyer will pay more than the face value of the bond.
One way of measuring the city's declining credit is to compare the difference between the yields on New York City bonds and the yields on other municipal bonds today and when the city last sold bonds, on Sept. 14.
In September, the city sold 21-year bonds with a yield of 8.05 percent, while other similar A-rated municipal bonds were yielding 7.65 percent, according to the Delphis Hanover Corporation.
 
Sensitive to the City
 Today, New York City bonds are trading at a yield of 8.6 percent, while similar bonds are trading to yield 7.5 percent. So by this standard the city's interest costs increased by seven-tenths of 1 percent.
That translates into $7,000 in extra interest costs each year for each $1 million in bonds sold. Assuming the city paid the same extra interest for an entire year's borrowing of about $4 billion, and all the bonds matured in 15 years, the city would pay $420 million in extra interest costs. City bonds have varying terms ranging up to 30 years.
Since many bond traders and investors live or at least work in New York City, they are especially sensitive to the political and social currents in the city, from homelessness to dirty streets and from fear of crime to City Hall skirmishes.
"The markets like predictability and routine," said Alan J. Proctor, executive director of the state Financial Control Board. "The environment of the last month was unpredictability. The administration is now making extraordinary efforts to show that it is going about a predictable process."
 
'Very Blunt Instrument'
 He said the "difference between the first week of October and now is like the difference between night and day."
But Kurt van Kuller, managing director for research at Lebenthal & Company, said that even if the city takes strong action and keeps its A bond rating from Standard & Poor's, the bond market might not react for a long time.
"The bond market is a very blunt instrument," Mr. van Kuller said. "The way it moves is in big swings. I don't think that one bit of news will make a difference."
And even if the Mayor calms concerns about the city's management, Mr. van Kuller noted that other problems remain. "The issue will focus not so much on what is he doing next year," he said, "but on the general problem of resources and the city's economy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Analysts say that New York City's credibility with investers is damaged, which may mean that the city will have to pay higher interest costs to raise money in the bond market. Meeting on the budget yesterday at City hall were, from left, Sally B. HernandezPinero, Deputy Mayor for finance, First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel, Mayor David N. Dinkins, Philip R. Michael, city's budget director, and Victor Kovner, corporation counsel. In forground facing them is Frank New, legislative director. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); CITIES (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); 

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



132 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 16; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Baker Off to Mideast to Put Muscle Behind Bush Threats

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SHANNON, Ireland, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d said today he would be consulting with Arab and European allies to lay the foundations for a possible joint military operation to force Iraq out of Kuwait if diplomacy does not work.
Setting off on a weeklong tour to the Persian Gulf and Europe, Mr. Baker made it clear that his main goal would be to intensify the threat against the Iraqi President, Saddam Hussein, by discussing how, when and against what targets military force might actually be used, as well as how sanctions and other United Nations resolutions could be made to squeeze Iraq more severely. 
 In essence, Mr. Baker appears to be trying to put some muscle behind President Bush's recent declarations that he is growing impatient with Iraq's behavior and is prepared to use military force if that proves to be the only way to evict Iraq from Kuwait.
Mr. Baker's foreign tour, which began with a refueling stop in Ireland, will include talks with leaders of Bahrain, Kuwait, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Britain, the Soviet Union and France, as well as the Foreign Minister of China, who will be in Cairo. Mr. Baker will also be visiting American troops in Saudi Arabia.
 
Convincing Saddam Hussein
 The underlying logic of the Baker trip is that unless President Hussein is convinced that he has only two options -- to stay in Kuwait and risk a military strike or to leave and survive -- he will not seriously consider unconditional withdrawal. Without saying so out loud, the Bush Administration has concluded that the Iraqi leader is not quite convinced about the credibility of the threat against him, and that more concrete steps must therefore be taken to demonstrate the seriousness and unity of the anti-Iraq coalition.
"The overall purpose of the trip," Mr. Baker said, "is to discuss with our coalition partners strengthening the full range of measures that we have employed to isolate Saddam Hussein -- political measures, economic and military measures -- and thereby to lay the foundation for the possible future exercise of all options."
This, he added, "will improve the prospects for a peaceful resolution and at the same time permit us to be prepared to consider all options, if peaceful ones don't work."
Alluding to a possible use of military force, Mr. Baker said he would be discussing with the coalition partners "some questions that need to be answered if certain options need to be considered." The United States, he added, would like to know "under what conditions and subject to what constraints" its coalition partners "would be willing to consider certain types of actions."
 
Questions to Sort Out
 Mr. Baker will apparently be trying to sort out several questions with Washington's partners: How long should sanctions be given to work before the military force option is exercised? If force is used, should it only be against the 430,000 Iraqi troops in and around Kuwait or also against military targets in Iraq proper? If shooting starts, how should command and control be organized?
The Secretary of State is expected to sound out Turkey on hosting American forces on its border with Iraq or opening a second front with its own troops against Iraq in the event of war.
He also suggested that he would be asking the Saudis and other Arab Gulf states about their preparedness to continue financially supporting "this mutual effort as it moves forward and the time frame becomes one of months rather than weeks."
 
$12 Billion Already Put Up
 Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates have already put up $12 billion, half of which has gone to support American troops and half to support frontline states like Turkey and Egypt who have been hurt economically by the conflict.
Mr. Baker said he would ask the coalition partners -- particularly the other members of the United Nations Security Council -- for their opinion on whether military force could be used under provisions of the United Nations Charter or whether a specific authorization should be sought.
Mr. Baker made clear that Washington still has not made up its mind on whether to seek an authorizing resolution.
In pursuing the confrontation with Iraq, President Bush "would like to maintain as much of the international consensus as he can and his actions to date make that clear," Mr. Baker said.
But he then quickly added that despite a desire for consensus, the United States believed it already had the legal authority to use force under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, if it chooses to go it alone.
 
Many Want a Resolution
 Article 51 of the charter says that any United Nations member may ask another member for assistance in reversing aggression against its territory. While the United States, Britain and France believe this gives them all the legal authority they need, the Soviet Union and most other United Nations members have indicated that they could support a use of force or send troops themselves only if the Security Council specifically authorized the operation.
Britain, in particular, is against a resolution, which it fears could tie the hands of the coalition if it chooses to use force by making the force subject to the Security Council members. Bush Administration officials say they are sensitive to the British argument, but they appear even more sensitive to the need to keep the Soviet Union on board at every step in the crisis. Given that priority, it seems likely that Washington will push for a Security Council authorization of military force.
Once the Security Council resolution is passed, a senior Administration official said, it could be undone only by another resolution, which the United States could veto if it found it too restrictive of military movements.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GULF STATES (90%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); CHINA (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (73%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



133 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Looks for New President and New Ideas

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Nov. 3

 BODY:
Midway through its task, the search committee seeking a successor to Harvard University's president, Derek C. Bok, has produced many names, but so far no clear favorite has emerged for what is often considered the premier academic job in America.
"It is very slow going," said a Harvard official familiar with the committee, which began its work in early July. The committee is scheduled to pick a candidate by March, with Mr. Bok set to retire in June after 20 years in the post. 
 The search process has touched off a dispute among Harvard's students; in the past two weeks, more than 1,000 of the school's 6,592 undergraduates have signed a petition complaining that students are excluded from the committee.
At most other leading private universities, including Princeton and Dartmouth, recent presidential searches have included students and faculty members. Harvard's search committee, in keeping with the school's tradition, consists only of six members of the Harvard Corporation, the university's governing body, and three members of its Board of Overseers, who are elected by the alumni.
 
Disturbing Lessons?
 "I find it very disturbing that Harvard doesn't put enough faith in its students to include them," said Colleen Ryan, a freshman from Danvers, Mass. "What is Harvard trying to teach us? Complacency, obedience and apathy?"
Friday, at a rally in Harvard Yard, the consumer advocate Ralph Nader, a graduate of Harvard Law School, told some 300 students: "You have to break that vise of authoritarian control that they have over this university. They'll be proud of you later."
Members of the search committee have consistently refused to discuss any aspect of their work, citing a need for secrecy. But talks with a number of prominent professors and administrators indicate that the committee, in addition to looking for a new president, is taking a broad look at Harvard and its future.
On one hand, a senior official said, the committee has already concluded that "people are very satisfied with Harvard under Bok." He pointed out that Harvard's yield on admissions of freshmen -- the percentage of those accepted who actually enter -- was 73 percent, well above other top schools, which run around 60 percent.
 
Change With Changing World
 On the other hand, the committee has heard a plethora of suggestions about issues facing Harvard, the official added. These include ways to improve the quality of teaching for undergraduates, whether Harvard should become involved in trying to improve secondary education across the country, and how Harvard should internationalize itself as society becomes more global.
There are also the problems of rising costs and rising tuition rates. Each department in Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences was recently ordered to cut its budget by 6 percent.
Harvard's quest for a new president has been complicated by the fact that not only is the president's job open, but so is the second-most important post, that of dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. A separate faculty committee, headed by Mr. Bok, is looking for someone to fill the dean's office by next spring, with the final decision up to the new president.
The overwhelming choice of many Harvard professors and administrators to succeed Mr. Bok as president, Henry Rosovsky, is theoretically disqualified. Mr. Rosovsky, the acting dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, is a member of the presidential search committee and has formally withdrawn his name from consideration.
 
At This Point, Speculation
 Moreover, Mr. Rosovsky, 63 years old, is thought to be too old, since Harvard wants a new president who can serve at least 10 years. An economist, Mr. Rosovsky earlier served as dean of the faculty for 11 years, becoming well known for developing Harvard's basic "core curriculum" and for turning down the presidency of Yale University.
But Mr. Rosovsky has not said he would refuse to serve if picked, and so much speculation still centers on him. "The problem for the search committee is that it will be very hard to find someone better than Henry," said the president of another Ivy League university.
Among others most often mentioned as leading candidates to succeed Mr. Bok are George Rupp, the president of Rice University and a popular former dean of Harvard's Divinity School, and James O. Freedman, the president of Dartmouth College and a Harvard graduate.
Those at Harvard thought to be under consideration include Jeremy R. Knowles, a professor of chemistry, Philip Leder, a professor of genetics, and Robert D. Putnam, dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government.
 
Asking Around for Names
 Others outside Harvard who have also been mentioned include Louis W. Sullivan, the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services, who once taught at Harvard Medical School; Thomas Ehrlich, the president of Indiana University, who is a Harvard graduate, and Gerhard Casper, the provost of the University of Chicago.
If Harvard were to choose a woman -- which most people here doubt will happen -- the two most highly recommended candidates are Nan Keohane, the president of Wellesley College, and Adele S. Simmons, the president of the MacArthur Foundation and also a Harvard graduate.
The final choice, however, may still be someone whose name has not yet surfaced. This month, the search committee mailed 200,000 letters to all Harvard alumni, faculty and students, soliciting names and suggestions.The search committee is also interviewing 300 to 400 Harvard professors and leading educators around the country, seeking names and ideas.
A senior Harvard administrator said the characteristics sought are someone in his or her 40's, with management experience, an ability to raise money and preferably a Harvard connection. Since Mr. Bok was dean of the Harvard Law School before becoming president, many believe a non-lawyer is being sought.
 
A Vote for a Scientist
 Various professors and administrators have their own favorite qualities as well. John E. Dowling, a professor of biology, said, "I hope we have a president who is more on the academic side of things, and I would love to see a scientist."
A professor of history, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity, said he felt "the university is adrift" because Mr. Bok had focused too much of Harvard's energy and resources on the professional schools, especially the John F. Kennedy School of Government, which Mr. Bok helped create. "You have only to look at the Kennedy School," he said, "to see what happens: you end up with a school of ambition, and much shallowness and confusion."
He added, "I would like to see the next president be just a teeny weeny bit more convinced that the College and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences are the center of the university."
David Reisman, a professor emeritus who has just written a book on university presidential searches, denied that the lack of faculty and student participation is a liability. "Each Harvard professor is a polar bear on his or her own ice floe, representing themselves," he said. And Professor Dowling said there was concern that students could jeopardize the secrecy of the process.
Mr. Reisman noted that although the search committee is far smaller than that at most universities it is more diverse than the white male group that chose Mr. Bok in 1970. The current search committee contains two women, including Hanna H. Gray, the president of the University of Chicago and a black, Wesley S. Williams Jr., a Washington lawyer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among those mentioned as leading candidates to succeed Derek C. Bok as Harvard University's president are James O. Freedman, above, president of Dartmouth College; Nan Keohane, top right, president of Wellesley College; George Rupp, right, president of Rice University; Adele S. Simmons, president of the MacArthur Foundation, and Gerhard Casper, below, provost of the University of Chicago. (The New York Times; Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (83%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); RICE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); RICE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (64%); BUDGETS (60%); PETITIONS (54%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; BOK, DEREK C; NADER, RALPH RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



134 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 21; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Cuts Aid to Zaire, Setting Off a Policy Debate

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Resisting persistent lobbying by the Bush Administration, Congress has cut all military and economic aid to President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire, a longtime United States ally in Africa.
As it adjourned last weekend, Congress denied the Administration's request for $4 million in military aid and stipulated that $40 million in economic aid be funneled through humanitarian agencies not affiliated with the Zairian Government. Its decision was based on human rights violations and accusations that Mr. Mobutu's vast wealthwas largely stolen. 
 The Congressional action and the Administration's attempts to control the inevitable damage in American-Zairian relations illustrates a classic foreign-policy problem: What kind of relationship should Washington have with dictators who arguably work to promote American interests? Can friendly dictatorships best be reformed through quiet diplomacy or overt pressure?
Many American conservatives have charged that the ouster of dictators like Anastasio Somoza Debayle of Nicaragua and Ferdinand E. Marcos of the Philippines with Washington's tacit approval ultimately failed to pacifythose countries and damaged American strategic interests.
Liberals, however, have countered that such dictators are unworthy allies. They say that American support for dictators inevitably associates Washington with repression and encourages anti-American feelings.
The potential importance of Zaire further complicates the problem. The country has major untapped reserves of copper, cobalt and uranium. It has nearly half of Africa's remaining rain forests, as well more than half of the world's hydroelectric potential.
While the Congressional action denying arms aid to Zaire has received littleattention outside Washington, it caused great concern at the State Department.
Mr. Mobutu has received hundreds of millions of dollars from the United States since he took power in 1965. But allegations of a massacre of at least 12 students at the University of Lubumbashi in April and reports that he has a fortune estimated at $2.5 billion tipped the scales against him in Congress.
"What jeopardizes the prospects of regional stability is the existence of a kleptocracy in Zaire that has driven the standard of living lower than it was at the time of independence three decades ago," said Representative Stephen J. Solarz, Democrat of Brooklyn.
State Department officials concede that Zaire has a tarnished human rights record, but they worry the opposition in the Central African country will use the aid cutoff as a propagandatool to undercut what they consider Mr. Mobutu's cautious reform efforts. They say that Mr. Mobutu's lifting of a ban against opposition parties and the appearance of independent newspapers this year should be taken seriously. They say these steps are, in part, the product of Washington's diplomacy.
State Department officials also argue that Mr. Mobutu has worked to calm tribal tensions in his country and has performed diplomatic and military services.
Mr. Mobutu was the first black African leader to recognize Israel after the 1967 war. He sent troops to Chad to counter a Libyan invasion. He served as a mediator to bring the Angolan Government and guerrillas to the peace table. Last month, he sent troops to bolster the Government of Rwanda against a guerrilla insurgency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (96%); AFRICA (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ZAIRE

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); CONSERVATISM (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); RAIN FORESTS (65%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (64%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES) MOBUTU SESE SEKO (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



135 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 38; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: News's Loyal Readers Are Split on Strike, Too

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Mickey Heit walked out of his neighborhood candy store with a copy of The New York Post tucked under his arm, barely glancing at a stack of yesterday's Daily News that lay free for the taking on the corner. Although he is a regular News reader, he said that picking up a free copy had a higher hidden cost.
"I feel bad; I don't want to cross the picket line," said Mr. Heit, 64 years old, who works at a car dealership and is a member of the United Auto Workers. "The News had good pictures and good reporters, but I can't see them hiring these outside people." 
 While Mr. Heit chose to turn his back on the papers, other passers-by in the Kingsbridge Heights section of the Bronx sauntered over to the stack and stooped to grab copies.
As the strike entered its second weekend, the sentiments of many readers in the newspaper's traditional blue-collar bastions are divided.
 
Support and Opposition on Strike
 To many older men and women for whom a union card is as much a symbol of passage into adulthood as marriage or military service, the strike signifies a mortal threat to organized labor. They have vowed to boycott the paper until the strikers are rehired.
But many other readers -- some, union members themselves -- have soured on the union-inspired violence and intimidation of newsstand vendors and replacement workers. They have continued to read the paper when they can find it, and most said they had not seen much difference in its quality.
Whether out of ideology or necessity, those who have turned to New York's other tabloids or radio and television for their news said they looked forward to once again buying the newspaper that was as much a part of their day as a cup of coffee and a subway ride.
John Tanner, the owner of a frame store on 231st Street in the Kingsbridge section of the Bronx, usually buys a copy of The News on his way to work. Yesterday morning he opened his shop without it.
 
'Trying to Gain Too Much Power'
 "It's a paper I've been reading for the last 20 years of my life, and it's hard to turn something like that off," he said. "What's a Sunday without The Daily News?"
Mr. Tanner said he has been buying The Post and other papers only because he had difficulty finding The News in his neighborhood. He has been able to read it at his mother's house, where she has it delivered.
He added that he was not concerned that the paper was being published by nonunion labor. "I think the unions in the long run are trying to gain too much power and are dragging the whole economy down," he said.
Down the block, Dawn Burgos folded one copy each of The News and The Post as she walked away from a newsstand that stocked both.
 
'Totally Different Paper'
 "I see no difference and have always bought The News no matter what type of reporters they have," she said. The copy of The Post she carried was for her husband, a member of the Teamsters, who refuses to buy The News.
"He says it's a totally different paper," Ms. Burgos said.
Some readers who have continued to seek out the paper have also noticed a difference. "The quality is a lot less," said Steve Shenkman, as he picked up a free copy of the advance sections of Sunday's News from a large pile that had been dumped outside Alexander's department store on Fordham Road in the Bronx. "When you have those reporters who are not New Yorkers, you're not going to get the New York view of things."
Mr. Shenkman, who works for New York Telephone and belongs to a union, said that while he was bothered by reading a nonunion newspaper, he continued to do so. "The unions have no right to be violent," he said.
 
Violence vs. 'Union-Busting'
 But other former News readers said they were more outraged by how the paper's management was behaving.
"To me, their tactics smack of the original union-busting tactics," said Jeffrey Warren, who said he now reads The Post.
Mr. Warren said he would resume buying The News only after the strike was settled. "But only if they settle their problem with the unions equitably and compensate the people who went on strike," he said.
Even those who were boycotting The News out of solidarity said they were eager for their newspaper's return.
 
Speaking on Their Terms
 "All the news I wanted was in there," said Alfey Nelson, a construction worker from Trinidad who was on 231st Street and sported a button that read, "Give a Damn."
"You would get your morning cup of coffee and it would make you feel good, then you'd get your Daily News and it would be the same feeling," he said.
For many of its readers, The News is an institution. They see it as a paper that speaks to them on their terms and with a feisty voice that they have come to appreciate. To them, the ultimate decision has little to do with labor issues, but where they can find the paper. To them, The News has no peer.
Except one, perhaps.
"As long as they can attract readers, I will still read The Daily News," said Samuel Nahabedian, a Bay Ridge resident. "I'm a religious man and when I don't read The News, I read the Bible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Although many readers have stopped reading The Daily News out of sympathy for striking workers, many have continued to read the paper. At Sedgwick and Van Cortlandt Avenues in the Kingsbridge Heights section of the Bronx yesterday, Belle Teig, a regular reader, picked up a copy from a bundle left on a street corner. Watching was Celia Shapiro, who said she does not read The News. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SA PAPER CHEMICALS LTD (63%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAILY NEWS (NEW YORK)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; NEWSPAPERS; BOYCOTTS; STRIKES STRIKES (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PICTURE FRAME SHOPS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); BOYCOTTS (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%); NEWSSTANDS (69%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID JOHN TANNER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



136 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2009 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
As Election Day Nears, Poll Finds Nation's Voters in a Gloomy Mood

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
As Election Day draws near, Americans are more pessimistic about the future than at any time in a decade, according to the latest poll by The New York Times and CBS News.
The dour mood coincides with deepening pessimism about the economy and is also linked to a collapse of faith in the ability of government and politicians to make things better, the telephone survey of 1,445 adults found. 
 For the first time since the days of stagnant economic growth and high inflation in the Administration of Jimmy Carter, a plurality of Americans surveyed, nearly 4 in 10, said they expected things would get worse in the country over the next five years. Only 3 in 10 said things would get better in the poll, conducted last Sunday through Wednesday.
 
Cynicism Grows Deeper
 Substantial majorities of Americans said that they believed the economy is in bad shape (66 percent) and that it was harder to make ends meet (57 percent). And in the face of this hardship, 77 percent of those surveyed said they believed government is run by a few big interests looking out for themselves rather than for the benefit of all the people. That was the highest figure ever recorded in the quarter of a century that various researchers have been taking this measure of cynicism toward government.
The pessimism is in sharp contrast to the upbeat days after the Los Angeles Olympics and Ronald Reagan's 1984 re-election when nearly half of those polled said they thought things would be getting better and only 2 out of 10 thought things would get worse.
"Things were better five years ago, I reckon, but I guess that was the time that we spent and borrowed too much," Vivian J. Martin, a retired poultry farm worker from Boones Mill in southwestern Virginia, said in an interview after participating in the poll. "Now, the future doesn't look too bright. We owe too much and we've gotten ourselves in a bad way."
This dark mood forms the backdrop for the first election of the 1990's. Both President Bush, who will not be on the ballot on Tuesday, and members of Congress, who will, have fallen precipitously in the public's esteem over the last few weeks, a period marked by wrangling over the Federal deficit and a standoff in the Persian Gulf.
But many voters also made it clear in interviews after the poll that their anger, which they expressed forcefully, would not translate directly at the ballot box on Tuesday, either because they viewed their own politicians as an exception or because they did not really know who was up for election.
Amid this prevailing mood, President Bush's approval rating has taken one of the worst slides in public approval of any modern President. In The Times/CBS News Poll, Mr. Bush's handling of his job was approved by 52 percent of the public, in the low point so far in his Presidency and a 21-point decline in little more than a month, compared to a Gallup Poll in mid-September.
That fall is at least as great, although perhaps not quite as sudden, as the decline in President Gerald R. Ford's approval rating after he pardoned former President Richard Nixon for his conduct in the Watergate scandal and the tumble that President Ronald Reagan took after disclosure of the Iran-contra affair.
The fall in Mr. Bush's approval has been all the steeper because of the rise he enjoyed in August as the public rallied around him after his decision to send troops to the Mideast in the wake of the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. At that point his approval rating stood at 76 in The Times/CBS News Poll.
Mr. Bush's still stands higher than the 42 percent approval rating that Mr. Reagan received in a Gallup Poll at this point in his first term at the depths of the 1982 recession when unemployment topped 10 percent as against the current jobless rate of 5.7 percent. President Carter, just before the 1978 midterm elections, had a 49 percent approval rating in a Gallup poll, only marginally different from Mr. Bush's latest rating.
When Mr. Bush took office in January 1989, the nation's mood was considerably more buoyant than now, with just under 4 in 10 Americans saying they thought things would get better and 3 in 10 expecting they would get worse.
 
Mideast Support Improves
 The latest Times/CBS News survey was conducted just after Congress finally adjourned its longest election-year regular session since World war II and as Mr. Bush began an effort to refocus American attention on the Persian Gulf confrontation.
Support for America's commitment in the Gulf improved slightly in the latest survey, but approval of Mr. Bush's handling of foreign policy, always his strength, continued to slip.
The survey should be accurate, according to statistical theory, to within plus or minus 3 percentage points of what would have been found if it were possible to seek out and try to ask the same questions of all Americans.
Albert H. Cantril, a public opinion analyst, said the nation's pessimism is particularly stark because Americans are historically an optimistic bunch with a "can-do spirit" of faith in their nation's ability to muster ingenuity and resources to solve problems.
"When that spirit runs up against intractable sets of issues, whether it's the deficit or gridlock in the Gulf, it's a very difficult situation for the public to deal with," Mr. Cantril said.
 
Mood and Elections
 The nation's mood is an important -- and many would say the most important -- factor in the outcome of elections. The last time polling measured pessimism this deep was in 1979. In the elections in 1980, the Democrats lost the White House as well as 37 House seats and 12 Senate seats. In 1982, with the nation in the depths of a recession, the Republicans lost 26 seats in the House.
Politicians have not been forecasting such dramatic changes this year, but with four days until the election they remain edgy in the face of a country obviously dissatisfied with the status quo.
Fred Steeper, a Republican poll-taker, said that this year remained different from previous years when the nation was in a bad mood, the most recent ones being 1982, 1980 and 1974. In all three of those years, voters directed their anger clearly at one party,-- the Republicans in 1974 and 1982 and the Democrats in 1980, Mr. Steeper said.
While many poll-takers and politicians have reported a trend toward Democrats in recent weeks, Mr. Steeper said that the general anger remains far more bipartisan than in any of the past years. This makes it harder to predict how it will influence individual races, he said.
Disapproval of Congress reached an all time high for the 16 years in which both The New York Times and The Gallup Poll have been asking the question. Sixty-nine percent of the public said they disapproved of the way Congress was doing its job and 23 percent said they approved.
Congressional leaders are fond of pointing out that Americans may hate Congress but still like their individual representatives. "It's hard to throw the other rascal out," Thomas S. Foley, the Speaker of the House and a Washington Democrat, said Friday.
But the standing of individual members has suffered, too, in recent weeks, although they still stand higher than Congress as an institution. Only 51 percent of those surveyed said they approved of the way their own representative is handling his or her job. Thirty percent said they disapproved and 19 percent said they did not know.
Most incumbents will still be re-elected, either because they have no real opposition or because even with all the disaffection they may still look better than the alternative. But the figures raise real fear for those members who in past years might have won narrowly.
In the new poll, without being told the names of the candidates in their district, 44 percent of the probable electorate said they would vote for the Democratic House candidate, while 39 percent said they would vote for the Republican candidate.
Americans are in one of their gloomiest moods when asked about faith in their government; this is why political challengers all across the country this year have been trying to tap this mood with attacks that paint incumbent office holders as tools, puppets and handmaidens of political action committees.
Pessimism about the country's future and cynicism about government were linked in the latest survey. The deepest pessimism about the future of the country was found among Americans who also said that candidates for public office are less qualified today than they were 10 years ago.
 
Deepest Negative Feelings
 Since 1964 researchers have been asking Americans whether they thought government was run by a few big interests looking out for themselves or for the benefit of all the people. They have never measured a result as negative as the one in the latest New York Times/CBS News survey.
In 1964, before Vietnam and Watergate, only 29 percent said the government was run for special interests and 64 percent said for all the people. But the number responding special interests reached 70 percent in the economic troubles of Mr. Carter's last year of 1980, and then retreated into the mid-50's and low 60's during the Reagan years, as measured in polls by the University of Michigan.
The public's overall mood was measured in The Times/CBS New Poll by a series of questions that asked people to rate "the way things are going in the United States" on a scale of 1 to 10 -- with 1 the worst and 10 the best. They were asked to do this for the present, as well as for five years ago and five years in the future.
The public gave an average overall rating to the nation's current situation of 4.91, the lowest since November 1979, when the public rated the national situation at 4.83 on average.
The public gave the future a 4.96 rating on average, showing little sign of optimism that the future would be better than today. Asked to look back five years, the public saw a better time, rating conditions at the start of Mr. Reagan's second term at 6.25 on average.
 
HOW THE POLL WAS TAKEN
The latest New York Times/ CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Oct. 28-31 with 1,445 adults around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen so as to assure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. The numbers were then screened to limit calls to residences.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of residential telephone lines and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, race, sex, age, and education.
Some findings are reported in terms of an overall "probable electorate" which uses responses to questions dealing with voter registration, voting history, and the likelihood of voting in 1990 as a measure of the probability of particular respondents' voting on Election Day.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults. The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for blacks it is plus or minus nine percentage points.
For the question that asked respondents to rate on a scale of 1-to-10 the way things are going in the United States at the present time, the margin of sampling error was plus or minus 0.10; that is, in 19 cases out of 20, a mean rating of 4.91 would be no lower than 4.81 and no higher than 5.01. For means based on smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

GRAPHIC: charts: showing how repondents on average rated "the way things are going in the United States" at the time of the poll, Nov. 1979; Jan. 1985; Jan. 1989. Oct. 1990; chart: voters; views on major topics, including economics, policy issues and politics, for Republican and Democratic supporters. (Source: The New York Times/CBS News Poll) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (51%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BALLOTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); APPROVALS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (60%); FARM LABOR (51%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



137 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
Irate Voters Approach Ballot Box With Sharpened Axes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Leo W. Charland is so angry at politicians that he plans to march to his polling place in Punta Gorda, Fla., on Tuesday and help vote them all out, including one of Florida's Senators, Connie Mack.
"Mack is part of the in-crowd, and I think it's time we broke up some of those," Mr. Charland said. 
 The only problem is that Senator Mack will not be on the ballot. Mr. Mack, a Republican, was elected in 1988 and will not be up for re-election until 1994, something Mr. Charland, an independent, did not realize because he moved to Florida only last year.
Politicians have been nervously watching the gathering mood of rage and pessimism among Americans and have struggled to define it with phrases like angry electorate and anti-incumbent fever. They remain edgy and uncertain about how, or whether, this pessimism will display itself at the ballot box.
A New York Times/CBS News Poll this week made two things clear. First, Americans are in their most dour mood in a decade. But, second, in interviews after the poll, these same people indicated that their rage would not fully translate at the ballot box because they barely knew who their own representatives were or believed they were an exception to the general problem.
"Our economy is headed downhill," said Harold J. Milota, a 38-year-old letter carrier in Collinsville, Ill. "After all this growth, I see a long slide. I don't see Congress doing anything to change this. They're part of the problem. We need to get new ones in office."
But he said he would still vote to re-elect Senator Paul Simon, a Democrat, on Tuesday. "He's definitely an exception to the rule," Mr. Milota said. "Paul Simon's done an awfully good job."
Jane R. Howard, a 55-year-old bank vice president in Universal City, Tex., a suburb of San Antonio, said she had already voted by mail. The country needs a new set of leaders, she said, and she cast her ballot for "mostly new ones, though I don't have a whole lot of hope."
At first Ms. Howard, a Republican, said she could not remember any of the people she voted for except in the governor's race, in which she voted for Ann Richards, a Democrat, because she said she hated the Republican candidate, Clayton Williams.
She also remembered that she had voted for the incumbent Representative, Albert G. Bustamante, a Democrat. "He's done some things for San Antonio," she said. Some of her motivation for voting against candidates of her own party might have been anger at another Texan, President Bush. "I'm not pleased with how he's done," she said.
In the Moreno Valley of California, Hank Kirchner, 33, a sales manager for a janitorial supply company, worries about a declining economy. He is a Republican, but he has decided to reject two proposals on the California ballot to limit the terms of the state's elected officials. Both measures have been endorsed by Republican leaders as a way to break the Democrats' grip on the Legislature.
"It's not an effective way to improve the situation," he said. "A guy could come in, see that he only has six years ahead of him and decide that he's going to take what he can. It all depends on the individual who has been elected. I would rather leave it to the voter to decide who should be in office."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL CONNIE MACK (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



138 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 12; Page 29; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Which Westchester Is This, Anyway?

 BODY:
Perhaps the Westchester Weekly on Oct. 14 coincidentally included Denise Apuzzo's essay on the Opinion Page ("Why One New Yorker Is Leaving Home") and quotes from a speech by Rosemary Scanlon ("Dispelling the Gloom Over the Economy"). Is it possible both women are talking about the same county?
Ms. Apuzzo writes of Westchester: "Thirty years ago, this was the place to be. I'm not so sure right now that this isn't the worst place to be." Ms. Scanlon says statistics "don't support the gloom; the national economy is worse off than the economy of the region which includes Westchester." 
 But if the economy is worse elsewhere, why are people moving out of instead of into Westchester? And why, as Ms. Apuzzo writes, has New York's reputation as a "United Nations of cultures" become a mockery, with group prejudices increasing and not decreasing? How does it happen that Westchester, the sixth wealthiest county in America, has the largest number of homeless per capita of any county in the country?
Answers to these Whys? may lie partly in William T. Knowles's remarks to the same group that Ms. Scanlon addressed. He laments that the Federal Government will probably not finance a "tri-state economic strategy." The only hope Mr. Knowles sees is for Connecticut, New Jersey and New York to take the lead in saving themselves. But he does not think that we can expect "individual local officials" to offer direction. "Widespread involvement is essential," he says. How can you have "widespread involvement" without "individual local officials?" And for what reason do we elect officials at any level of government, if not to provide solutions to problems?
We have apparently now reached a point in our national history when the best that businessmen and politicians can tell us about what to do when the economy turns sour is to pass the problem to another branch or level of government. Mr. Knowles implies that the present impasse is Washington's fault. A few weeks ago, County Legislator Paul Feiner wrote that we should not blame the County Legislature for its inability to deal with Westchester's budget, that we should blame Albany.
Possibly Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has not heard from any of his friends and supporters in Westchester. Like Mr. Knowles, he blames Washington.
 
MILTON GOLDIN
Tarrytown

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



139 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Why the Japanese Find It So Difficult To Unsheath Swords

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
FOR four decades Japan's leadership has gone to extraordinary lengths to keep one issue off the country's political agenda: the real meaning of the famous "peace clause" in Japan's American-imposed Constitution. Over the years, the Government has gained a kind of grudging public acceptance that Japan needs what it carefully terms the Self-Defense Forces, despite the Constitution's clear prohibition that "land, sea and air forces, as well as other war potential, will never be maintained." But that acceptance has hinged on an oft-repeated assurance -- aimed at Asian neighbors as much as Japan's own populace -- that the military would never again stray from Japan's shores.
In the last two weeks Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu has gotten a rude awakening about how seriously the usually docile Japanese electorate views that restriction, and how much distrust of the Government and the military lies bubbling beneath Japan's placid exterior. 
 Ever since Iraq invaded Kuwait, Japan's leadership has felt intense pressure from the United States -- some real, some exaggerated when broadcast here -- to contribute people and skills to the gulf effort, beyond the $4 billion Japan has pledged.
But after weeks of promises, contradictions, and contorted logic, the whole thing blew up this week in Mr. Kaifu's hands. The turning point was his sudden "reinterpretation" of the Constitution that, had it succeeded, could have paved the way to send Japanese troops into combat for the first time in 45 years.
When people took to the streets, Mr. Kaifu backed away from his constitutional proclamations. But it was too late to save a Government plan to provide transport, medical care, communications and maintainance -- anything but firepower -- to the troops in Saudi Arabia. That bill is now effectively dead. "It was mishandled at virtually every step," said a senior Government official who contributed his share to the botched effort. "The worst part is that even with the bill gone, the fundamental issue still haunts us, and no Government will want to discuss it directly for a long time."
Indeed, the gulf crisis has provided the best evidence yet that Japan is still far from ready to carry the non-economic burdens of a true superpower. What has happened is a spectacular collision between Japan's commitment to "kokusaika," which loosely translates as international responsibility, and its postwar abhorrence of anything that even sniffs of the militarism that started gloriously with the Russo-Japanese War and ended disastrously with Nagasaki. Kokusaika lost.
The debate centered on an ideal -- Article IX of the Japanese Constitution, which renounces "the threat or use of force as a means of settling international disputes." Nobuyoshi Ashibe, a constitutional scholar and a professor at Gakushuin University, says the Japanese "are immensely proud of that provision, and I think they regard it as unique among nations." Some of his students add that it sets a national tone, one far different from what they regard as America's trigger-happy response to crises.
Listening to the debate over the last few weeks, one is struck by the stark differences in the way Americans and Japanese talk about the purposes of Article IX. The provision, an American diplomat said, should be viewed according to its original intent: To prevent Japan from again venturing out to disturb the peace. The Iraq crisis poses the opposite challenge, of course: Japan is being asked to join in restoring the peace and enforcing international law.
 
A Disastrous Precedent
 But to many Japanese, Article IX acts as a vital restraint against a Government and a military that have yet to win their trust. Polls show that a majority of Japanese view any overseas military mission as a potentially disastrous precedent.
Article IX is so clearly worded that most Japanese constitutional scholars express little doubt that the mere existence of the Self-Defense Forces, with 240,000 troops, 1,200 tanks, 400 fighter jets and an expanding budget, is blatantly unconstitutional. Japan's conservative and plodding Supreme Court, however, has sidestepped every opportunity to rule on the issue, declaring it a "political question." That happens so often that, as a top Government official said, any interpretation of the Constitution is possible as long as the people go along.
So, when Mr. Kaifu began to fear that Japan's military alliance with the United States could begin to crumble if Japan failed to act in the Gulf, he proposed creating a "Peace Cooperation Team" made up of volunteers who would play strictly noncombat roles. As conservatives in the party tinkered with the bill, however, the proposed civilian team took on a much more military air, the volunteers being replaced with lightly armed military personnel. Mr. Kaifu made matters worse when he suddenly offered his constitutional reinterpretation, saying Japan could even send fully armed troops under United Nations command if the United Nations decided to enforce "collective security" under its charter.
"It was a very Japanese solution to the problem," said Yasuhiro Okudaira, a constitutional scholar at International Christian University. "It would be impossible to amend the Constitution. So he chose to pretend that the status quo remains, and simply amend the interpretation."
But the effort was immediately undercut, chiefly by Mr. Kaifu's own Cabinet Legislation Bureau, a group of bureaucrats who put forth the Government's official view of what is and is not constitutional. Its refusal to go along gave the opposition everything it needed.
In retrospect, Mr. Kaifu's initial instinct in August, to send volunteers but no military personnel, probably would have kept him out of trouble. And he may yet find a way to send Japanese to Saudi Arabia, though they are most likely to be volunteers who may get in the way more than they help. But it will be months before Parliament can try again. And it will be years, it seems, before ordinary Japanese will trust their Government to find a way to back up its interests with the sword as well as the yen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japanese paratroopers marching last month at the annual Self Defense Forces Day parade in Tokyo. (Patrick Frillet/Sipa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (75%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JAPAN; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AIR FORCES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



140 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
For the G.O.P., The Race Is to Win Second Place

BYLINE: By FRANK LYNN

 BODY:
NORMALLY, when politicians are stuck with a loser at the top of their Election Day ticket, they abandon ship rather than go down with it. The provincial message in such cases is usually something like, we don't care who you want for governor, senator or president, just vote for our local candidates.
But hapless New York State Republicans, already reconciled to a total rout by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, don't even have that option Tuesday, because if Pierre A. Rinfret, their obstreperous candidate for Governor, drops too far in the vote tally he will take their party down with him. That could mean the loss of the State Senate majority, the state comptroller's office and -- for the first time in state history -- the crucial second line on the ballot. The ramifications of such an electoral disaster include not only a precipitous decline in patronage, but also an involuntary, rightward shifting of political agendas. 
 The Conservative tail could wag the Republican dog just as minor parties have attempted to do -- uniquely in New York State -- for decades.
First there was the Liberal Party, founded after World War II, which in its heyday in the 1960's and 70's often had veto power over Democratic statewide candidates. But as the Democratic Party moved to the left, the raison d'etre for the Liberal Party has faded.
The Conservative Party, which was founded in 1962, has also paid the price of success in declining votes as the Republicans moved to the right in the Reagan era. And the newest of the minor parties, the Right to Life Party, has also slid recently.
But, now one of the minors threatens to become a major party.
The worst fears of Republican leaders -- that the erratic political amateur, Mr. Rinfret, could be overtaken by the Conservative Party candidate, Herbert London -- were reinforced last week. The independent Marist Institute poll showed the Governor running away with the election and, far more surprisingly, that Mr. Rinfret, an economist, and Mr. London, a New York University dean and a Republican himself, were running neck and neck for second place with about 11 percent each. Mr. Cuomo was actually winning twice as many Republicans as his opponents in the poll. A fourth candidate, Louis Wein of the Right to Life Party, who is competing with Mr. London for anti-abortion votes, polled a nearly invisible 2 percent. The Marist results were echoed by two private Republican polls.
To compound the bad news, Mr. Rinfret, who is known by 73 percent of those polled by Marist, is not especially well liked. Only 13 percent rated him favorably, 39 percent negatively. It doesn't get much worse than that.
 
Jockeying for Position
 The significance goes beyond the race for the Governor's office. The gubernatorial results determine ballot position for all elections for the next four years. The party that wins the State House has top billing; second place gets Row B, and on. The order now is Democratic, Republican, Conservative, Right to Life, Liberal.
In addition, the two major parties, determined by the same gubernatorial results, control every board of elections from the state to the county to the polling place level. It has never been anything but Democratic and Republican. From a politician's viewpoint, the boards are among the most vital government agencies because they control patronage jobs, voting lists, poll inspectors and a candidate's access to the ballot.
 
Pleading and Scaring
 That grim prospect has Republicans from Buffalo to Long Island swallowing hard and rallying this weekend to promote Row B, a vote for Mr. Rinfret. The Westchester County leader, Anthony J. Colavita, even went on the radio to plead for Republicans to vote the ticket. In the Albany area, Assemblyman John Faso, who was Mr. Rinfret's campaign manager until he quit over the candidate's attacks on Republicans, is using the $2 billion environmental bond issue, which is also on the ballot, to scare most Republicans to the polls.
On the other side, Mr. London and the Conservative Party have husbanded their scarce funds to sponsor a $50,000 radio and television advertising campaign that portrays him as the real Republican and the genuine conservative battling two liberal peas in a pod, the Governor and Mr. Rinfret. The latter is hardly liberal, but Mr. London has seized on Mr. Rinfret's support of abortion rights and past criticism of Ronald Reagan's tax program to paint the Republican as a liberal and "a joke." The London commercials also feature endorsements by two prominent Republicans, Jack Kemp, President Bush's Secretary of Housing and Urban Development who was a member of Congress from Buffalo before joing the Administration and Lewis E. Lehrman, the party's gubernatorial candidate in 1982.
Mr. London is also counting heavily on the second and last debate of the campaign today at 1 P.M. on WNBC-TV. Many politicians believe he benefited from the first encounter in Syracuse last month and that it started his upward movement.
In contrast, Mr. Rinfret, who has sharply curtailed his campaigning because "the pace was too hectic," he said, has no advertising scheduled except the Republican organization's self-defense radio ads upstate. The commercials are certainly not motivated by affection or admiration for Mr. Rinfret, who has regularly pummeled Republican leaders as idiots, Benedict Arnolds and bedmates of the Governor. Only last week, he said he would not vote for State Comptroller Edward V. Regan, the only statewide Republican official, because he has been "a patsy" for Governor Cuomo.
 
Recalling a Moment of Glory
 Michael Long, the Conservative Party state chairman and the London campaign manager, predicted that the Conservatives would run up a vote second only to their previous moment of glory in 1970 when James L. Buckley was elected to the United States Senate on the Conservative line as liberal Republicans and Democrats split the moderate to liberal vote. Mr. Buckley lasted one term, and his election had no effect on the party lineup in the state or a Republican Party then dominated by Nelson A. Rockefeller.
That is not the case Tuesday, and Republicans and Conservatives are predicting a new post-election struggle over a diminished Republican Party as emboldened conservatives renew their efforts to push the G.O.P. farther to the right with a new state chairman and a sharper conservative ideology.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The underdogs
Herbert London (above), the Conservative Party candidate for Governor, and Pierre A. Rinfret (right), the Republican candidate, are running neck and neck in Tuesday's election -- but for second place, a consolation prize important for its ramifications to political professionals; Louis P. Wein, of the Right to Life Party, is trailing far behind. (Phil Matt for The New York Times; Jim Wilson/The New York Times; Tom McKitterick/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; CONSERVATIVE PARTY (NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BALLOTS (78%); VETO (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); ABORTION (63%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

PERSON: LYNN, FRANK; RINFRET, PIERRE A; LONDON, HERBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



141 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 4; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
A Stronger New Profile For the European 12

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
ONE year after the crumbling of the Berlin wall, as Washington struggles to maintain NATO's traditional importance and Moscow talks wistfully of a new pan-European security structure, the 12-nation European Community has quietly and confidently asserted itself as the central pillar of the new Europe. The emergence of a stronger community underlines how swiftly economic development has replaced military confrontation as the region's main concern. But it also reflects how Western Europe has turned post-cold war uncertainties into opportunities to speed its own moves toward closer economic and political unity.
The first challenge was posed by the unification of Germany. But Bonn has tightened its bonds to the community, calming the fears of its partners that it might choose an independent role in Europe. The Persian Gulf crisis then exposed the community's continued reliance on Washington's security umbrella, but it has also awakened the 12 to the need for their own defense capability. 
 The eventual shape of an integrated community is still unclear, not least because Britain continues to resist surrendering any more sovereignty. Yet at the latest summit meeting of community leaders in Rome last weekend, all but Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain committed themselves to achieving a single European currency and a common foreign and security policy in the 1990's.
Further, in December in Rome, two parallel conferences -- one on economic and monetary union, the other on political union -- will start revising the Treaty of Rome, which created the Common Market in 1957. And with France and Germany contemplating a federal Europe in the 21st century, the momentum for change is enormous.
 Not surprisingly, the rest of Europe is watching the community with a mixture of envy and hope. Austria, Turkey and Cyprus have applied for membership; Sweden announced plans to do so last week and Norway may soon follow suit. Eastern Europe's new democracies are seeking association with the community as a step toward eventual membership, while the Soviet Union is looking to the community to finance its own economic transformation.
New members, though, will have to wait. Consumed by its existing plan to create a single regional market by the end of 1992 and by its new blueprint for economic and political union, the community wants to work out its own rules for the future before it lets in those countries able and willing to play by them, some time in the mid-1990's. But even to outsiders, the community is already the principal point of reference in Europe.
In contrast, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which for four decades enjoyed that position, is now gripped by an acute identity crisis. With the Soviet Union no longer a threat, NATO has tried to redefine its security role in political, economic and even environmental terms, but so far with little success. And when the gulf crisis seemed to come to the rescue by posing a military challenge this summer, NATO was forbidden by its charter from acting outside Europe and North America.
The United States, though, still views the 16-nation alliance as vital to preserving trans-Atlantic ties and, above all, its own dominant position in Europe. Britain also values NATO as the place where the United States sits alongside Europe. Thus, the Americans and Britons have reacted ambivalently to the community's plans to develop an independent defense capability.
Washington has also shown little interest in Moscow's idea of using the 34-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe to provide the new architecture of Europe.
When President Bush and the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, join 30 or more Europeanleaders at a splashy summit meeting on European security in Paris on Nov. 19, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe will be amply praised for its past role in promoting democracy and human rights in the East Bloc through the 1975 Helsinki Final Accords. But it will not be turned into an institution capable of answering Europe's immediate or future needs.
As much through initiative as by default, then, that role has been assumed by the community. Looking for an anchor in the West, Moscow has proposed a broad cooperation agreement with the community. And while the United States still prefers to speak to Europe through NATO, it too has begun a direct dialogue with the community with a view to signing a formal treaty.
The community itself, however, is still advancing along an uncharted road, with Mrs. Thatcher complaining at every step that the pace is too fast, and the direction is wrong. "How," Mrs. Thatcher recently wondered aloud, "can I possibly go to the Queen and tell her that her head is no longer to appear on our banknotes?" Last week, her outspokenness prompted her longtime ally Sir Geoffrey Howe to resign in protest as deputy prime minister and leader of the House of Commons.
The community must also lift Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain out of backwardness before it can consider itself homogeneous. Entrenched interests are still stronger than pledges of unity. And the community cannot afford to waver in helping former Communist countries to become market economies even though the cost will be high.
For the moment, however, with the United States obsessed by its own economic problems and unsure of its future role in Europe, the community has had no choice but to take up this challenge. And while it would prefer to concentrate exclusively on its own integration, it has recognized that, in the new Europe that will be one year old on Friday, it can enjoy security only if its neighbors also enjoy prosperity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); CYPRUS (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (55%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); TRENDS (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); EURO (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN MARGARET THATCHER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



142 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Seasonal Discontents;
In an Unsettled Time, Feelings of Unease

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
PRESIDENTIAL campaigns often speak to the voters' hopes, to their yearning for clarity, as when Jimmy Carter promised to never lie and Ronald Reagan offered his vision of America resurgent.
Midterm elections, on the other hand, often serve as a forum for the nation's anxieties and disappointments. They give voters a chance to slap down a President, shake up a statehouse, pass an initiative, simply say that they do not like the way things are going, while at the same time calmly returning most incumbents to office. 
 Even before a single vote is cast in Tuesday's general election, this midterm has been angrier than most. Even if most incumbents manage to hunker down and survive the storm, as they are expected to, politicians around the country predict that the voters' discontent will echo into 1992 and beyond.
This campaign season has been marked by deep divisions within the Republican Party and serious frailties in the Bush Presidency. It has seen the Democrats' first, lurching attempts to shape a message that could lift the party out of the defensive crouch that characterized it throughout the Reagan years. At the same time, it has highlighted an electorate that polls show is increasingly cynical, disengaged and disgusted with politics and politicians.
All of this has been spurred by remarkably unsettled times. Voters will go to the polls on Tuesday with a growing threat of war in the Persian Gulf, with the economy in an ominous slump, with a President who seems puzzled that his popularity plummeted after he broke his most memorable promise of the 1988 campaign. Candidates and their handlers have had to scramble to adjust. "Events rather than politicians have put important issues on the table," said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic polltaker.
The two parties are in a state of flux. The Republican right is in outright rebellion against their President and what they view as a disastrous break with Reaganomics, the pursuit of economic growth through lower taxes. Even more telling is the deep concern among centrist Republican regulars who are quietly worried about the party's path. How does the Republican Party, which labored for decades to dispel its reputation as the party of plutocrats, define itself when the central debate is not whether to raise taxes at all, but whose taxes to raise and whose benefits to cut?
For their part, the Democrats are showing tentative signs of recovering after a decade of debilitating defeats. Party leaders say they found in the budget negotiations a vehicle for the kind of economic message they longed for during much of the Reagan era: that Democrats will insure equity for the middle class, in taxes, services and domestic issues like day care and the environment, while Republicans cater to the rich. They say this theme registered quickly in surveys in the final days of this campaign and helped catalyze a pro-Democratic trend.
"It may be the turning point from the '80s into the '90s, from one set of ideas to a new one," said Richard A. Gephardt, the House Majority Leader, in an interview last week. "We've basically been on the Reagan-Bush program for ten years now and it's not worked so well. People are beginning to ask what's next."
Mr. Gephardt tried similar themes in his unsuccessful campaign for the Democratic Presidential nomination two years ago. But now, with the economy shaking, with the deficit forcing the nation into a grim zero-sum game around the budget, the time might be right for economic populism. This, at least, is the view of Kevin Phillips, the conservative analyst whose account of the inequities of the Reagan era, "The Politics of Rich and Poor," became Democratic gospel this year. "I think we've seen the last flag factory now," Mr. Phillips said a few days ago, alluding to the politics of patriotic symbols that played such a central role in the 1988 campaign. "Once the real meat and potatoes is out there, the old stuff isn't going to work anymore. This is not to say the Democrats won't overdo it and mess it up, but I think they've finally figured out where to begin."
Where this new dialogue will end is another question. Many Democrats acknowledge that the "fairness" debate is only the first step. "We Democrats have to prescribe a sensible program for the revitalization of the country's economy," Mr. Gephardt argues. "And that's going to require us to describe what government's role in that revitalization should be."
Mr. Bush's plunge in the polls this fall has added further volatility to the political scene. The most recent New York Times/CBS News poll showed Mr. Bush with a 52 percent approval rating, the lowest of his Presidency. Suddenly, Democrats are perking up, looking at the 1992 Presidential election as something more than a political root canal, another exercise in pain.
Charles Black, the chief spokesman for the Republican Party, dismisses Mr. Bush's declining popularity as a short-term fluctuation and brushes aside the Democrats' calls for economic "fairness" as standard fare for a midterm election, without lasting consequence. Still, he acknowledges, "If we're in a recession, if the economy is bad in '92, they can make it into a real contest." This is exactly the scenario the White House hoped to avoid, however, by forging a budget deal this year, even if it meant having some Republican candidates suffer for it.
One of the loudest echoes from this midterm campaign will come from the voters, who in survey after survey and in some key primaries this year have already shown themselves to be disgusted. "In all the focus groups I sit in there is this huge schism between the people and their elected officials," said Don Sipple, a top Republican consultant.
The latest poll by The New York Times and CBS News found Americans with little faith in their institutions. More than three-fourths said they believe government is looking out for the special interests rather than for all the people, a record for the quarter of a century that researchers have been taking this measure of American attitudes.
Disapproval of Congress reached an all-time high for the 16-year period that The New York Times and the Gallup Poll have been asking the question, with 69 percent saying they disapproved of the way Congress is doing its job.
Analysts have long worried that voters, feeling politics was irrelevant to their lives, were simply dropping out of the system. But this year the voters have acquired an edge, their anger has become more active than passive.
Reflecting this mood is the growing movement to limit terms for legislators and other officials. Such a measure has already passed in Oklahoma, is on the ballot in Colorado and California, and is gaining attention on the Federal level. The mood is also evident in the sort of insurgent, anti-incumbent campaigns such as the ones being waged by Harry Lonsdale in Oregon against the 24-year Republican incumbent, Mark Hatfield, and by Paul Wellstone in Minnesota against Republican Senator Rudy Boschwitz.
Says Mr. Wellstone in one of his end-of-campaign commercials: "I speak in our schools, and kids tell me politics is fake, corrupt, phony. I tell them politics doesn't have to be that way. This is our government, and together we can take it back."
Similar themes are struck from Louisiana, where a Republican house member simply notes that he is "home every weekend," to Indiana, where the Democratic Senate challenger, Baron Hill, asks in his television commercials, "Are you fed up with what's happening in Washington?"
There is an irony to all this advertising, appealing to a cynical mood that some analysts believe has been created, in part, by political advertising -- the slashing attacks that have become such a part of modern campaigns. "We're kind of like a dog eating its own tail for nourishment," said Ray Strother, a Democratic media consultant. "Cynicism is feeding cynicism right now."
All of this turmoil will probably not result in momentous change on Election Day, particularly in Congressional elections, analysts say. "You've got all this trauma, discontent, angst, coming up against an electoral system that makes unlikely any truly dramatic expressions of that angst," said Thomas E. Mann, director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution.
Incumbents have huge advantages in fundraising and the perquisites of office, and neither party sensed the surly public mood early enough to recruit the kind of candidates who could capitalize on it this year. Still, this mood is not expected to ease any time soon, and will likely frame the politics of the next few years. It could be felt in force in 1992, when redistricting and retirements are expected to produce as many as 80 open seats in the House of Representatives.
As a result, even safe incumbents are nervous these days. Politicians in both parties are realizing that this may not be just another midterm election. It may be signaling the start of post-Reagan politics. And the voters are restless out there.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sign in the front yard of a home outside Albany last week (Steve Brown ); graph: percentage of voting-age population casting ballots.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); BUDGETS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN RONALD REAGAN (93%); JIMMY CARTER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



143 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 10; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: VIEWS OF SPORT;
Germany's 'Miracle Machine' Is Left in the Blocks

BYLINE: By PETER HERRMANN; Peter Herrmann is a German journalist who lives and works in what was once East Berlin.

 BODY:
FOUR days before its 41st anniversary, on Oct. 7, the German Democratic Republic -- East Germany -- disappeared from the map. Founded as an experiment to establish socialism on German soil and as a counterbalance to the Federal Republic of Germany -- West Germany -- East Germany failed for all kinds of reasons, political, economic, ecological and cultural. But to put it in one sentence: the capitalism of West Germany was stronger.
What are the lasting impressions of 41 years of East Germany? 
 The American movie director Stanley Kramer, who is also well known in Europe, once said: "Socialism is good. Capitalism is faster." This observation reflects an accurate portrayal of East Germany in all respects but one: its sports system, or "the miracle machine" as it was called in the title of a book written more than 10 years ago by a Canadian author, Doug Gilbert.
Indeed, it was a miracle machine, working more effectively and much faster in producing champions, medals and records from the assembly line than its counterpart in West Germany even though it was managed in a socialist manner.
This chain of success, unmatched in the history of sport by any other country of comparable size, was predicated on very sound principles: early, concentrated promotion and development of talents, methodical building up, solid education and/or vocational training, and last but not least, guaranteed social security for every athlete after retirement. All this was guided and directed by the ruling Communist party; without its consent, nothing began and nothing progressed.
 Two months ago, Juan Antonio Samaranch, the president of the International Olympic Committee, visited the East German national Olympic committee for the last time. Shortly before leaving, he implored its officers to "please take care with your possibilities that the G.D.R. sports not get ruined."
This is the point. The unification of the sports organizations of the two German states is not a unification of two equal partners. To date, it has been the dismantling of the smaller one, at the cost of its experience, its coaches, its officials. The process would better be viewed as a gobbling up of East Germany by West German officials who favor their own people.
Some examples? The East German track and field team had the best results ever from the recent European track and field championships, winning 34 medals, including 12 gold. West German athletes won a total of seven medals. But none of the East German coaches received a job offer in the new German track association. Quite a number of them, including the chief coach of the national team for many years, Werner Trelenberg, left Germany altogether.
In swimming, East German athletes have excelled and often dominated; however, the national team will be led by three West Germans at the world championships two months from now in Australia, according to Wolfgang Richter, the chief coach of what had been the East German swimming federation.
The list goes on of coaches excluded, mostly because they are East German. Jutta Muller, who guided Katarina Witt and other figure skaters to more than 50 medals in international championships, will not coach the new German figure-skating team. Instead, she is fighting to survive as coach of a club team.
As a journalist I have accompanied East German teams to national and international stadiums for more than 20 years. It was really impressive to experience how the athletes of this small country with only 16.5 million people became an equal competitor of the two superpowers, the United States and the Soviet Union, sometimes ending a competition with even more medals than the big two. At the 1976 Olympics in Montreal, East Germany won more gold medals than the United States, as it did 12 years later in Seoul, South Korea. I was always proud when the East German flag was raised and its national anthem sounded.
Yet I also know that athletes and their successes were shamelessly misused by the leadership of the country to enhance its worldwide image and to distract East German citizens from the harsh realities of their own lives. When the economic and ecological situation in the country became worse and worse, the success of the athletes became the only pretense for socialism. During the last weeks and months before unification, I asked myself repeatedly how the 37 gold medals won by the East German athletes in Seoul can help the country to solve its problems.
While history has given the answer -- socialism under the colors of East Germany no longer exists on German soil -- I can't help wondering why valuable methods and people must be discarded? German citizens, not only those from the East, are angry and bitter about this situation.
West Germany, one of the richest countries in the world, is not willing to sustain any aspect of the East German sports organization. This is not true of some of the top East German athletes, such as Ulf Timmermann, Heike Drechsler, Wolfgang Hoppe or the new track star, Katrin Krabbe, whose careers are assured by adequate sponsors.
But the foundation of the East German sports system, the 16,000 small sports clubs, which had been supported by state-owned factories, are in trouble. This concerns me because there is no money for physical education and care for tens of thousands of children and teen-agers. Also, the future is doubtful for the national sports college in Leipzig.
With the selection of Atlanta as host for the 1996 Olympic Games, the chance for Berlin's becoming the host in 2000 has been increased. But if the Games come to Berlin, they should become not only an organizational success but also an athletic success. The urgent warning of the I.O.C. president should not go unheeded: "The damage to the high performance sports of the G.D.R.," he said, "would be not only a damage for Germany but also for whole Olympic movement."
To make sure that does not happen, the successful methods of an unliked, now nonexistent state should be preserved and not end up in the garbage can.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); AUSTRALIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; COACHES AND MANAGERS SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (74%); OLYMPICS (74%); TRACK & FIELD (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (70%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (69%); WRITERS (68%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (65%); 

PERSON: HERRMANN, PETER STANLEY E KRAMER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



144 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 4; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
For Dinkins And Unions, Friendship Has Its Price

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
MAYOR DAVID N. DINKINS, a friend of labor who won office with its overwhelming support, now finds himself the target of labor's scorn and disbelief. That's bad news for any politician in a city with more than 300,000 workers on the payroll, the equivalent of 1 in 10 registered voters.
But the problem is especially painful for Mr. Dinkins, who is in trouble in tight fiscal times because he agreed last month to a 5.5 percent raise for the teachers' union -- an increase that almost everyone now tells him he can't afford to give to the scores of other unions whose more than 100 contracts remain to be settled. 
 The leaders of those unions, themselves elected, can't afford to go back to their members and tell them there's no money left. The easiest thing for them to do is attack the Mayor. Some of them did so last week in a protest vigil outside Gracie Mansion, and others are staging a big rally at City Hall Wednesday, the day before Mr. Dinkins is to present his plan for keeping the budget balanced.
"It's a crisis of confidence in the Mayor," said Stanley Hill, executive director of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, the largest city union, with 140,000 members.
Barry Feinstein, president of the 12,000-member Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, said the negotiations that he and Mr. Hill joined in were "the most inept in my 33 years of dealing with government." Their unions suspended formal talks last week.
Torn by his debt to the unions and his duty to city residents and bondholders and beset by conflicting advice from his own aides, Mr. Dinkins must also confront a compelling reality: some city employees, like teachers and health-care workers, are actually underpaid in comparison to the demand for their services or to their counterparts elsewhere. Yet others are not. For example, more than 100,000 people are scheduled to take the test to fill 2,000 jobs as sanitation workers over the next four years. The starting salary for new teachers is $25,000 a year; for a sanitation worker, it is $23,000.
The pattern in city wage settlements has long produced roughly comparable raises for all, and Mr. Dinkins's timing in settling with the teachers first was no way to break it, even if he wanted to give them the most in the end. The United Federation of Teachers' raise also applies to the 20,000 non-teaching school employees, including teachers' aides, it represents. Other employees in the similar jobs are represented by Mr. Hill's union, making it hard to justify giving them less.
"I really do think Dinkins has a very special problem, which may be exacerbated by his closeness to the unions, but is a problem all the same," said Dick Netzer, a professor of economics and public administration at New York University. "And that is that we're at a point where some groups in the city service are badly underpaid.
"The teachers' contract turned out to be a tactical disaster, but the idea of giving teachers a sizable increase is not crazy," Mr. Netzer said.
The agreement, however, did not seem to take into account the tactical implications of settling with the teachers first or the city's tight overall fiscal situation. The city faces a budget gap of more than $300 million in its current fiscal year and more than $1.5 billion in the next fiscal year, which begins next July. Indeed, just days after announcing the teachers' contract, Mr. Dinkins warned of the possibility of laying off 15,000 workers, a figure his administration now says might reach 35,000.
"They created a politically impossible situation for their labor friends to help them in," said one former city labor official. "If there weren't a teacher contract, the other unions would be out there trying to help Dinkins. Now he's created a series of almost caged animals. They've got no way out."
The labor vote has long been a big factor in city politics, preceding the rise of unions. In the 19th-century heyday of Tammany Hall, Mr. Netzer noted, the "payroll vote" was considered a major bloc.
The dynamic is hard to ignore, even for administrations not considered friendly to labor. Mayor Edward I. Koch added some 80,000 workers to the city payroll in his 12 years in office, often in the name of restoring services depleted by the layoffs and fiscal crisis of the mid 1970's. Others were hired to provide social services required by law, or to guard a jail population that tripled in a decade.
Mr. Dinkins suggests the city is still paying the price for the school cutbacks of the 1970's through a lost generation of young criminals and drug abusers those cuts spawned, and he says over and over that children are the future and deserve good teachers.
The endorsement by the president of the United Federation of Teachers, Sandra Feldman, gave Mr. Dinkins credibility in his campaign last year with a much-needed consituency.
When his opponents complained that Mr. Dinkins would give away the store to his friends in labor, he replied that his friendship gave him the clout to persuade the unions that the money wasn't there. Now the Mayor has the worst of both worlds: He is faulted for giving the teachers too much of a raise, while the other unions don't believe the fiscal situation is as bad as he says.
Mr. Hill and Mr. Feinstein have made noises about job actions and threatened the Mayor in terms reserved for enemies. How Mr. Dinkins will get out of the stalemate remains unclear.
"A difference between New York and other places in this respect," Mr. Netzer said, "is that New York does more things and has a more activist budget and more employees" since it is both a city and county government.
"Everything focuses in terms of negotiations on the Mayor," he said. "It produces a paradox. In a constitutional sense, you have a more powerful mayor, but in a very real sense, a more vulnerable mayor. There's no place to hide."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (55%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); CITIES (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (75%); COUNTIES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); BONDS (65%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) GRACIE MANSION (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



145 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Divorce to Staten Island

 BODY:
"Shall a charter commission to provide for the separation of the borough of Staten Island from the City of New York and for the establishment of the City of Staten Island be created?"
That question will appear on the ballots of Staten Island voters on Election Day; unfortunately, the outcome is a foregone conclusion. Misled by their own passions and self-serving politicians, the majority of Staten Islanders have long favored secession and intend to vote yes. 
 But so far they've been fueled more by emotion than information. What New York City's least populated borough needs now are facts and figures about the true cost of divorce. It's therefore imperative that the Governor and legislators appoint a responsible charter commission, and that the new panel, in turn, insist on expert, objective analysis of secession's economic and social consequences.
Staten Islanders, who have long felt ignored and abused, are even more worried now that the Board of Estimate has been abolished. That cost them some of the power once shared equally with the other, larger boroughs. The vision of freedom from the obligations and problems of a huge city has thus grown increasingly seductive.
Elected officials, including Gov. Mario Cuomo, turned deaf ears to the argument that all five boroughs deserved a voice in the 92-year-old city's fate. The result was a law passed last year in Albany that allowed Staten Islanders to vote to establish a commission. The commission's recommendations will be put to another vote by Staten Islanders in 1993; if approved, the recommendations will go to the State Legislature for final approval or rejection.
The cost of independence remains a guess. Secessionists envision living in a Staten Island unburdened by city hospitals, shelters, jails and other unpopular facilities; they would make money by charging the rest of the city for the Fresh Kills landfill, and would receive state and Federal aid directly, bypassing City Hall.
But questions abound. How would Staten Island maintain its preferential property tax rates without Manhattan's commercial tax base? How would it finance schools, buses and road repairs? There's an even larger question, which Mr. Cuomo and others who so cavalierly authorized the process might take a moment to ponder: What if other predominantly white, middle-class enclaves try to follow suit?
With political leadership, this costly, potentially divisive exercise could have been avoided. NowJU
the only way to minimize the damage is to be sure that the people of Staten Island can make their ultimate decision on the basis of facts and reasoned discussion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC)

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); LEGISLATION (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (62%); PROPERTY TAX (61%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (61%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (60%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%); LANDFILLS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



146 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Washington Is Tiring of Supporting All Those Spies

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE Pentagon, it turns out, was not the only Federal behemoth rescued from Congressional budget-cutters by Saddam Hussein. When Congress adjourned last weekend it left behind a top-secret 1991 espionage budget that not only is said to approach $30 billion -- just a nick below current levels -- but also resists deeper cuts that the House and Senate armed services committees are looking for.
American officials say the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait reminded Congress that the nation's intelligence agencies, like its armed forces, have duties beyond guarding against a Soviet military threat that is evaporating daily. 
 But they add that the Persian Gulf crisis only postpones a reordering of espionage spending and responsibilities that may leave some agencies reeling. After encouraging a decade of growth, Congress is questioning whether the alphabet-soup spy organizations are not performing make-work, duplicating each others' efforts to justify their budgets.
"The plethora of separate facilities, separate communications operations, separate data processing centers, separate training facilities, and separate support and warehousing operations is ripe for consolidation," the House Armed Services Committee stated in a largely secret report in August on the Pentagon's spying programs.
"A lot of our members feel we should be looking at a top-to-bottom scrub of intelligence -- a hard look at what we're doing, what we should be doing and who ought to be doing it," one Congressional aide said.
Those who still regard espionage as a tight club of trench-coated spies with shoe-phones would be astounded at the depth and breadth of the intelligence bureaucracy. The best-known spying outfit by far, the Central Intelligence Agency, spends perhaps 11 percent of the total espionage budget on its 30,000 or so spies, analysts and scientists. That amounts to $3 billion to $3.5 billion a year. The really big spenders are the National Security Agency, which conducts and analyzes electronic eavesdropping on an annual diet of $5 billion or so, and the National Reconnaissance Office, which launches and manages satellites on a budget that some say approaches $8 billion a year, but others say is smaller.
That does not include the Defense Intelligence Agency, a Pentagon office with thousands of military intelligence analysts; individual intelligence agencies in the Army, Navy, Marines and Air Force; counter-espionage offices in the four services, the Energy Department, the C.I.A. and the Federal Bureau of Investigation; a staff of State Department analysts, and an independent 250-person executive branch office that is supposed to make sure that they all mesh.
Too often, critics say, they do not. In theory, the services gather tactical intelligence -- "find out what hill the bad guy's behind," in one official's words -- and the Defense Intelligence Agency looks at bigger pictures, surveying adversaries' overall strategies and determining which new weapons best exploit enemy flaws. In practice, critics charge, the two regularly overlap, with Air Force intelligence officers, for example, producing intelligence to justify purchases of new weapons that the Air Force wants to buy.
Moreover, analysts at the D.I.A. and C.I.A. examine the same cables from overseas spies and review the same electronic intercepts, which, in turn, have often been independently analyzed by the N.S.A. The turf fights can become vicious.
Some duplication is valuable, especially when it spurs healthy debate over an important piece of intelligence, such as signs of Iraqi troops massing near Kuwait. But with deficits growing and the Soviet threat fading, even the spymasters concede that some cuts are in order.
"It's not any big secret: some intelligence agencies are getting a little bit fat," a senior Pentagon official said in an interview earlier this year. "There are a lot of important capabilities we've bought in the last decade. But everyone's got to give at the office."
The question is where. Congress would like to force the Pentagon and the civilian espionage agencies, headed by the C.I.A., to combine operations more often, especially now that the military is becoming more deeply involved in activities like drug interdiction and economic intelligence-gathering.
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's senior aide for intelligence spending, Duane Andrews, is reported to be close to finishing a Pentagon cut-and-paste proposal for the intelligence agencies. Congress has ordered Mr. Cheney and the Director of Central Intelligence, William H. Webster, to produce a joint report on reorganization by March.
But the rival bureaucracies have resisted streamlining before, and the impatient House and Senate armed services committees propose to force upon them one equitably painful remedy: a 25 percent personnel cut in both Pentagon and civilian spy agencies between 1992 and 1996.
That is more than the 22 percent cut now contemplated for military personnel alone, and both the spies and their overseers on Congress's intelligence committees reject it outright. More likely, officials say, the agencies will have to cut and reorganize where the money is: in the Pentagon espionage agencies, in the N.R.O.'s hugely expensive satellite programs and in the N.S.A., all of which grew at double-digit rates in the 1980's.
Already, the latest intelligence budget is reported to have killed at least one expensive satellite that was designed to monitor the Soviet Union, and troop withdrawals from Europe will reduce a huge N.S.A. and military intelligence presence along the old Iron Curtain.
Congress would prefer that the Defense Intelligence Agency inherit control of many tasks that it now shares with the military. But the services, always skilled at protecting their own, are likely to resist fiercely.
"Defense has got the least justifiable budget of anybody," one former senior intelligence official said last week. "Most of what they do is duplicative, and most of that is aimed at the Soviets."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Electronic communications and interception equipment at the National Security Agency in Fort Meade, Md. (Stephen Ferry/Gamma-Liaison)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (77%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES ESPIONAGE (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); NAVIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (71%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



147 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC & PRIVATE;
Staying Alive

BYLINE: By Anna Quindlen

 BODY:
I love newspapers. I know that's like a butcher telling you steak is great, but the butcher is right and so am I.
Every day, the people I work with produce fast history you can hold in your hand. Market research tells us that more and more people are relying on television news instead, but television news and newspapers aren't the same thing at all. Newspapers are portable and reusable. If you don't get the gist the first time, you can reread. If you don't care about one gist, you can turn to another. And when you're through with gist, you can pack up old dishes and line bird cages.
 
 I especially love tabloids. I suppose that's like the butcher confessing that his favorite food is fish. In a world that has become a little finicky and refined for my taste, a good tabloid isn't. It stands up on its hind legs and shouts "Get a load of this!" A good tabloid is fast and mean and cheap and low and vivid and street-smart. It plays dismemberments and mob hits big. It is also easy to read.
 All this is a way of saying something simple: Don't let The Daily News die.
I don't even know whom I'm talking to when I say that. The accidental strike at The News is so complicated and convoluted, made up of so much bad faith and errors of judgment, that even people in the midst of it don't know who could settle the thing, or if a settlement is even possible.
You have to make sure of three things before you call any strike. The first is that management cannot do without your labor. The second is that the moral force of a picket line will keep others from working. And the third is that there is some obvious middle ground between their position (less) and yours (more).
None of these things were certain at The News.
There's remarkably little talk of the standard negotiated settlement, the one that the unions can live with and management will accept. Instead people speak with terrible resignation of three scenarios:
The workers go back, those that management will take, and theyJU
eat any bad deals that management puts on their plate.
The workers are permanently replaced.
The Daily News goes under.
All three of those scenarios involve breaking the backs of the unions, and there has never been a more obvious time for the company to try. Management types in all industries have studied Air Traffic Controllers 101, the short course that has made a strike more perilous to workers than ever before. The economy is in tatters, you can find replacements on any corner, and executives who have been poor-mouthing since time immemorial are telling the truth when they say things are tough. Old union work rules have never seemed more like antiquated indulgences to the front office. New machines make hard jobs simple and people a luxury.
Two of the scenarios include the death of The Daily News. One is using replacement workers in the newsroom. The Tribune honchos can fly in reporters from Florida and Illinois all they want, but those reporters aren't going to be able to put out the real Daily News, the one that knows Brooklyn without a map and has cop connections that are indelible and unbeatable. Some guy from Orlando isn't going to replace Jerry Capeci on the mob or Marcia Kramer on the Mayor. A newspaper is given its voice by the people who write and edit it. Ventriloquists won't cut it.
There is also talk about simply shutting down the paper. The suits in Chicago insist that is not the plan. But I have watched as, year after year, the tabloid readers have moved to the suburbs, and the advertisers have closed their doors. Korvette's. Ohrbach's. S. Klein. Gimbels. All gone now. A newspaper is one organism that is dying if it becomes svelte. Upscale, that dissonant manufactured word, has become the mantra of the people who run newspapers, and the people who market consumer goods, too.
A real tabloid is never upscale.
"Don't it always seem to go," Joni Mitchell sings, "that you don't know what you've got 'til it's gone." You can still hear the occasional lament for The New York Herald Tribune, although it's been gone for years. Some people still miss The Philadelphia Bulletin. I'm one of them.
Maybe The News would have gone belly up anyhow. Maybe something can still be worked out, if both sides can forget the violence and the vitriol. There's a special kind of light shed by a paper as big, as unruly, and as unpretentious as The News. And if it dies, or if only its shell remains, it will be a dark day for this city, and this business. Perhaps some group will be able to say it won. But it won't be the readers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (84%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (84%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; NEWSPAPERS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); STRIKES (69%); 

PERSON: QUINDLEN, ANNA MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



148 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
A Bad 'Budget Deal'
<

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

 BODY:
This week's alarming employment statistics -- 68,000 jobs lost in October, after 52,000 disappeared in September -- not only suggested further national slippage into recession but that the celebrated new "budget deal" was the wrong economic medicine.
That's not merely because the President and Congress agreed, more or less, on an arrangement that is supposed to reduce the Federal deficit, when a looming recession seems to call instead for economic stimulus. Defenders of the budget deal insist that the $40 billion in putative deficit reduction scheduled for this fiscal year is not enough to trigger a recession. 
 Even if they're right (and to some of us, $40 billion seems quite enough of a straw to break the camel's back), the overall five-year program of deficit reduction is aimed supposedly at expanding private investment. Instead, it may actually reduce such investment because higher taxes and curtailed Federal spending will re<ll14duce demand or retard growth in demand. But studies show, and even the President's Economic Report concedes, that demand and its rate of growth are the factors to which private investment is most responsive.
Arcane statistics support this common-sense notion; if the public demands more, business will seek to provide it. But if falling demand causes investment to decline, employment will decline too. That will mean lower Government revenues and higher Government outlays to ease the plight of the jobless and their families. And that in turn will mean an increased Federal deficit, not despite but because of the budget deal.
Beyond that, a strong argument can and should be made that it is not private but public investment that is most in need of expansion -- public investment for the tangible, such as roads and bridges and sewage disposal plants, and for the intangible, education and research and development. Sadly, the budget deal was aimed at deficit reduction, including spending cuts, and a balanced budget, rather than at increased public investment.But how, skeptics ask, could we spend more when we already owe so much? Aside from the question of whether the Federal deficit and the national debt are all that large (when measured against gross national product), spending more makes ample sense if the added expenditures are aimed at increasing employment. For every percentage point by which unemployment is reduced, the Federal deficit would be cut by about $40 billion, because of higher revenues from more people working and lower explenditures for fewer unemployed people and their families.
The budget dealmakers must have overlooked the significant fact that unemployment stood at 10.7 percent at the end of 1982, and still was more than 8 percent at the end of 1983. Since then, it has declined rather steadily to 5.7 percent today. The economist Robert Eisner asked pertinently, in an article in Challenge for May/June 1990:
"How explain the extended recovery in the last seven years, cutting that unemployment percentage in half? Was it really unrelated to the initiation of huge deficits and the swing back to [easier money] by the Fed in 1982?"
Mr. Eisner, the Kenan professor of economics at Northwestern University, pointed out that during roughly the same years -- 1984 through 1989 -- "inflation has run successively at 3.7, 3.0, 2.6, 3.2, 3.3 and finally 4.1" percent. In other words, the stimulative deficits that helped reduce unemployment did not produce runaway inflation or anything approaching it.
In the past two years, moreover, gross private domestic investment averaged, in real terms, 17.6 percent of G.N.P. -- which is equal to or above the ratio of investment to G.N.P. a decade ago. So the borrowing needed to finance the deficit has not really "crowded out" private investment, doomsayers to the contrary.
Nor has the national debt -- not to be confused with the deficit -- ballooned, if properly viewed against the size and growth of even a sluggish U.S. economy. National income and G.N.P. have been growing at about 7 percent a year; so has the national debt.
This debt-to-G.N.P. ratio permits an annual deficit as large as 3 percent of G.N.P. While that ratio, reflecting a sensible balanced-growth policy, is maintained, the problem is not how much the Government spends, though that's what the budget deal primarily addressed. The problem, rather, is what the Government spends for. Stay tuned for another article on this important question.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



149 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 51; Column 2; Entertaining Magazine

LENGTH: 1781 words

HEADLINE: Feasts & Celebrations;
Time vs. Money Three Plans for a Brunch

BYLINE: BY FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
WHEN ENTERTAINING IS meant to be informal, affordable and on a large scale -- say 20 guests, some with children -- nothing beats brunch. Increasingly popular, a brunch offers many options, from doing it yourself to purchasing prepared dishes from a carryout shop or even hiring a caterer. These three approaches have been contrasted here with estimates from across the country -- New York City, suburban Connecticut, Seattle, Washington and Pittsburgh.
The meal itself, lower in calories and cholesterol than the traditional egg-based fare, sacrifices nothing in flavor or festivity. It begins with a smooth curried tomato soup, a non-alcoholic alternative to a Bloody Mary. The main course, picadillo, a Latin American minced-meat hash, is usually made with pork or beef, but in this version, with seasoned ground turkey. Accompanying it are a chunky relish (made from eight diced avocados mixed with the juice of five limes, a cup of chopped coriander, two jalapenos and salt), plus a simple saffron pilaf and a colorful salad of black beans and corn in a Sherry vinaigrette. Dessert is a homey cobbler of apples and dried fruit plumped in tea, topped with a simple cake batter. Instead of whipped cream or ice cream, sweetened whipped skim-milk ricotta is served on the side. 
 DOING IT YOURSELF. The most lengthy, but also the most economic and personal approach, is to take care of everything, from marketing to serving, on your own. To save time, all the dishes except the relish and dessert can be prepared a couple of days in advance, and the cobbler can be made the night before. Although using paper or plastic tableware will keep the work minimal, china and glassware are more gracious and convenient for guests. Extra plates, cups and glasses can be borrowed, or rented for 35 cents to $1.50 each from a party-supply company, which only requires the tableware to be rinsed before pickup.
 
TAKEOUT. For those with a tighter schedule, carryout is a good alternative, but also more expensive -- it can be about two to three times the cost of cooking at home. The food, however, can be just as nutritious; many carryout shops across the country offer dishes similar to those on the menu. In fall, for instance, the Hay Day markets, a group of specialty-foods stores in Greenwich and Westport, Conn., often have a ginger and carrot soup and a turkey meat loaf. In Pittsburgh, Rania's To Go offers a fat-free baked apple compote with a yogurt topping, a dessert in the same spirit as the cobbler. "We get so many calls for this kind of food, we felt we should go with it," said Rania Harris, the owner. For large orders, many shops will place the food on platters supplied by the host.
CATERING. For the least time and, yes, the greatest expense -- sometimes nearly twice as much as carryout -- a caterer can be hired. Yet as catered parties go, a brunch like this is still one of the least expensive. If it is fully catered, a chef will come to take care of preparation, last-minute cooking, refilling platters and cleanup. Rates vary around the country, and will also depend on the service and rentals desired.
DRINKS. While a caterer will often arrange for beverages, few have liquor licenses, so the choices, in any event, will be up to the host. The options include an easygoing wine, beer or perhaps a bottle of spirits -- probably vodka -- along with mixers. If only wine is to be served, buy a case, but if you are offering additional beverages, eight bottles will probably do. (The accompanying box lists good reasonably priced wines.) If you're opting for only beer and soft drinks, purchase a case and a half of beer. Even with both wine and beer, the total drinks bill, including mixers, coffee and ice, should not exceed $125.
STAFF. A brunch buffet does not call for much help -- a local teen-ager can be enlisted to help replenish serving platters and clean up -- but professional assistance is an option. Depending on the area, bartenders and waiters usually charge $10 to $20 an hour. Caterers, service agencies (typically for a $15 to $40 fee) and even some schools and colleges can supply the help. Often, there is a three- to five-hour minimum.
 
PAUL NEUMAN'S CURRIED TOMATO SOUP
 
 1/2 cup corn or canola oil
 2 large onions, minced
 2 tart green apples,
 peeled and minced
 2 tablespoons minced fresh ginger
 2 tablespoons minced garlic
 1 jalapeno, seeded and minced
 2 tablespoons curry powder
 2 tablespoons ground cumin
 1 1/2 teaspoons turmeric
 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
 1 1/2 teaspoons freshly ground pepper
 4 28-ounce cans crushed tomatoes
 2 tablespoons light brown sugar
 1/4 cup cider vinegar
 Salt to taste
 10 cups chicken or vegetable stock.
1. Heat the oil in a large, heavy saucepan over medium-high heat. Saute the onions and apples until tender and golden, about eight minutes. Add the ginger, garlic and jalapeno and cook a few minutes. Stir in the curry powder, cumin, turmeric, cardamom and pepper, and saute a minute or so more.
2. Stir in the tomatoes and simmer for 45 minutes. Stir in the brown sugar and vinegar, then season with salt. Cool and refrigerate.
3. Before serving, place the soup mixture in a large pot, about eight-quart capacity, and add the stock. Bring it to a simmer and adjust the seasonings. The soup is best not quite piping hot.
Yield: Twenty to 25 servings.
 
TURKEY PICADILLO
 
 8 pounds ground turkey
 2 cups dry Sherry
 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
 3 cups minced onion
 3 cups minced green pepper
 1 tablespoon minced garlic
 2 cups chopped pimento-stuffed olives
 1 cup tomato paste
 6 tablespoons capers
 1 tablespoon chili powder
 2 teaspoons oregano
 2 teaspoons ground cumin
 Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
 1 cup slivered blanched almonds, toasted.
1. Marinate the turkey in the Sherry for 30 minutes.
2. Heat the oil in a very large, deep skillet, at least seven-quart capacity, or in a heavy roasting pan placed over two burners. Saute the onion and green pepper over medium heat, stirring constantly, until they are lightly browned. Stir in the garlic.
3. Add the turkey and saute, stirring until crumbly and the excess liquid has evaporated, about 10 minutes.
4. Add all the remaining ingredients except the almonds and cook over medium-low heat, stirring occasionally, about 15 minutes. Set aside.
5. If needed, reheat the picadillo on top of the stove and keep warm in a covered casserole. Just before serving, sprinkle with the almonds.
Yield: Twenty to 25 servings.
 
SAFFRON PILAF
 
 2 teaspoons saffron threads, crushed
 9 cups hot chicken stock
 1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
 1 cup minced onion
 6 cups short-grain rice
 Salt to taste.
1. Steep the saffron in two cups of the stock for at least 30 minutes.
2. Heat the oil in a large, heavy casserole. Saute the onion over low heat until very tender but not brown. Stir in the rice, increase the heat to medium and cook, stirring, for several minutes, until the rice begins to whiten.
3. Stir in the saffron mixture and the remaining stock. Salt if necessary. Bring to a simmer, then cook, covered tightly, over very low heat for about 17 minutes, until the liquid is absorbed. Remove and set aside, covered, for 10 minutes.
4. Transfer the pilaf to a serving dish. It can be served at once or cooled slightly. It can also be refrigerated overnight and brought to room temperature, then reheated for 30 minutes at 300 degrees in a covered baking dish.
Yield: Twenty to 25 servings.
 
BLACK BEAN AND BELL PEPPER SALAD
 
 2 pounds dried black beans
 2 1/2 cups chopped red pepper
 2 cups cooked corn kernels (fresh, frozen or canned)
 1 cup chopped yellow pepper
 1 cup chopped green pepper
 1 cup minced red onion
 3/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
 1/2 cup Sherry vinegar
 Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
 Large pinch cayenne pepper.
1. Clean the beans. Cover with two inches of water and soak four hours or overnight. Drain, place in a large pot and cover again with two inches of water. Bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Skim for a few minutes to remove any foam, and cook, partly covered, for about 50 minutes, until they are tender but still hold their shape. Drain and cool.
2. Mix the beans with the remaining ingredients and refrigerate if desired. One hour before serving, bring the salad to room temperature, mix gently and adjust the seasonings.
Yield: Twenty to 25 servings.
 
DRIED FRUIT AND APPLE COBBLER WITH SWEET RICOTTA
 4 pounds mixed dried fruit (pears, apricots,
 peaches, cherries)
 4 cinnamon sticks
 2 quarts hot strong tea
 16 Granny Smith apples,
 peeled, cored and cut into chunks
 1 cup plus 3 tablespoons
 light brown sugar, packed
 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
 1 3/4 cups unsalted butter, at room temperature
 4 cups flour
 2 teaspoons baking powder
 1 teaspoon nutmeg, preferably freshly ground
 1 teaspoon salt
 2 cups granulated sugar
 6 large eggs
 1 cup milk
 2 teaspoons vanilla extract
 4 cups skim-milk ricotta
 Grated rind of 2 oranges
 3 tablespoons fresh orange juice
 Confectioners' sugar.
1. Steep the dried fruit and cinnamon sticks in the tea for at least two hours to plump the fruit.
2. Drain, reserving any remaining tea. Place the tea in a small saucepan and reduce to about one-half cup. Pour back into the fruit.
3. Combine the apple chunks, one cup of the brown sugar, the ground cinnamon and the fruit.
4. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. With about two tablespoons of the butter, grease two four- to five-quart baking dishes.
5. Sift the flour, baking powder, nutmeg and salt together and set aside. Spread equal amounts of the fruit mixture in the two dishes.
6. Cream the remaining butter with the granulated sugar until fluffy. Beat in the eggs, one at a time. Combine the milk and vanilla. Stir a small amount of the flour mixture into the butter mixture, alternating with some of the milk mixture, until well blended. Drop the batter from a large spoon over the fruit, covering the top. Spread it to close any gaps.
7. Bake about one hour to one hour and 10 minutes, until the top is puffy and brown.
8. Meanwhile, mix the skim-milk ricotta cheese with the orange rind, orange juice and the remaining brown sugar. Place in a food processor or blender, and process about 30 seconds, until smooth. Refrigerate.
9. Cool the cobblers an hour or two before serving. If they have cooled longer, warm them for about 20 minutes in a 200-degree oven. (Do not refrigerate.) Dust with sifted confectioners' sugar and serve with the ricotta.
Yield: Twenty-four servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DOING IT YOURSELF: Cooking and serving this brunch for 20 yourself takes the most time but the least amount of money. The ingredients cost around $110, or about $5 to $6 per person (a little more if staples are needed). Figure 45 minutes to an hour and a half for marketing; about four hours for cooking. All but the dessert and relish can be made a couple of days ahead, and the dessert the night before. The meal can be served buffet style, or even from the stove
 
ORDERING OUT: This approach is convenient, but is also more costly. The total menu from a carryout shop would run from about $10.50 per person in Pittsburgh to about $19 in New York City. Most takeout shops sell dishes similar to the ones on the menu, such as a turkey meat loaf and a fat-free apple compote. The host or hostess will only have to warm the food when necessary, and transfer it to serving bowls
 
HIRING A CATERER: Having a brunch catered takes the least time -- the caterer will shop, cook and serve -- but can cost up to twice as much as buying carryout. A Seattle caterer estimated that a catered party with this menu would cost about $20 per person. In New York City, Neuman & Bogdonoff figured the cost would not exceed $30 per person, which included their coordinating the purchase of beverages and any rentals of tableware and/or chairs. (Photographs by Kenro Izu for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); CHEESE (75%); POULTRY (75%); ICE CREAM (75%); MEATS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1990



150 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 31; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Reputation by Citation

BYLINE: By Paul A. Freund; Paul A. Freund is Carl M. Loeb University Professor Emeritus at Harvard Law School.

 BODY:

CARDOZO
A Study in Reputation
By Richard A. Posner.
156 pp. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press. $18.95. 
 REPUTATION and merit are not always the closest of companions. John Chipman Gray, a professor of law at Harvard at the turn of the century, conferred this encomium on his early predecessor Joseph Story: he was "a man of great learning, and of reputation for learning greater even than the learning itself."
In "Cardozo," a study of merit and reputation, Judge Richard A. Posner displays the same affinity for dual relationships that has characterized his highly influential work on law and economics as well as his provocative writing on law and literature. The present compact and unflaggingly interesting volume, drawn from lectures at the University of Michigan, is bound to be provocative in its methodology.
Benjamin N. Cardozo, the Chief Judge of New York's highest court, was appointed to the United States Supreme Court by President Herbert Hoover in 1932, against all the conventional political wisdom: there were already two New Yorkers (Charles Evans Hughes and Harlan Fiske Stone) and another Jew (Louis D. Brandeis) on the Court. It was probably the most popular act of Hoover's Presidency, though that may be faint praise. When the appointment was announced, Felix Frankfurter remarked privately that Cardozo, whom he would succeed seven years later, could not possibly retain the unanimity of acclaim that his accession inspired. (The prophecy, it turned out, proved more accurate for Frankfurter himself.) How deserved, how enduring, is Cardozo's reputation, and why?
To answer these questions, Judge Posner has wisely confined his inquiry to Cardozo's career as a state judge, an office he filled for 18 years and in which his reputation was made. After a review of Cardozo's leading opinions, Judge Posner's verdict is distinctly positive. Cardozo had his flaws, including a tendency to state the facts of a case with an emphasis and selectivity calculated to buttress the legal outcome (a characteristic hardly peculiar to Cardozo among appellate judges, as the author observes). But this is a critical study, by no means a debunking one.
Whether Cardozo's writing style -- somewhat florid, inverted, marked at crucial points by the teasing word -- was a demerit or an asset is analyzed dispassionately. Like Hoover's violation of conventional political canons, Cardozo's flouting of the cautionary canons of opinion writing has produced a living legacy, and Judge Posner cites, as an example, Cardozo's definition of fiduciary duty, surely pertinent to this day: "A trustee is held to something stricter than the morals of the market place. Not honesty alone, but the punctilio of an honor the most sensitive, is then the standard of behavior." It is a style, like Henry James's, easy to parody but difficult to replicate. Whatever the message it encases, the rhetoric adheres in the same way as the language of those, denounced by Thomas Henry Huxley, "who would plaster the fair face of truth with that pestilent cosmetic, rhetoric."
Cardozo's literary style, Judge Posner maintains, is a major element in his reputation. The other principal element is substantive. Cardozo is commonly recognized as a progressive judge who gave new direction (or was it only decisive momentum?) to the development of basic areas of the common law, notably the law of contract and tort. How novel his contributions were can only be assessed, Judge Posner acknowledges, by a more extensive survey of the precedents than was possible in these lectures. What is evident is Cardozo's avowal of continuity in the law even as it changes, and his caution about extending a legal principle to what Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes (Cardozo's "master") called a dryly logical extreme. Although these attributes of moderation might have risked defections among true believers, they serve, in Judge Posner's view, to buttress Cardozo's reputation, along with the indelible imprint of his style, the widespread perception of a gentle, noble character and his graceful extrajudicial writings on the process of judging. After taking account of all that can be said to the disadvantage of his subject, Judge Posner concludes that "among state court judges of this century Cardozo has no peer."
But Judge Posner offers more than his own hard-wrought judgment of his subject. One chapter, "Cardozo's Reputation: Measures of Magnitude," presents a quantitative assessment based on a computer-driven search for law review articles and judicial opinions in which Cardozo's name is mentioned, and here problems small and large emerge. Perhaps the smallest is the computer's incapacity in its search for names to differentiate upper-case and lower-case letters at the beginning of a word. Presumably "Frankfurter" caused no serious difficulty, and "Cardozo" none at all, but (Justice Hugo) "Black" and (Judge Learned) "Hand" definitely did. The author's solution to this problem required some human intervention: Judge Posner took a sample of the questioned word's appearances, found the ratio of the upper-case to lower-case references, and applied that ratio to the word's aggregate appearances.
Other problems are more serious. What exactly is meant by reputation? For his purposes Judge Posner defines it as to be " 'widely regarded in a good light,' and thus as practically equivalent to fame." But while the volume of name references in various publications may be a good measure of attention and fame in the broader sense, it does not necessarily signify a ranking in a good light, a badge of merit or approval. Witness names like Napoleon, Marx and, yes, Holmes. Judge Posner is fully aware of the limitations of the quantitative method. Still, he is unfazed in his eagerness to have it applied more broadly.
Quantitative research may have either of two values: to provide new or counterintuitive information, or to affirm what we "always knew" but now we know. With Cardozo, the data are of essentially the latter kind.
But above and beyond the figures stands the Figure. In the case of Benjamin Cardozo, what is most needed is a full-bodied scholarly biography, toward which the present study, illuminating in itself, will serve as a significant contribution.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Justice Benajamin Cardozo poses for the sculptor Sergei Konenkov in 1932. (Dewitt Ward)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CARDOZO: A STUDY IN REPUTATION (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (56%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); JUDGES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WRITERS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); 

PERSON: FREUND, PAUL A; POSNER, RICHARD A (JUDGE); CARDOZO, BENJAMIN NATHAN (1870-1938)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



151 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Breaking Up Was Hard to Do

BYLINE: By Neil McKendrick; Neil McKendrick is a Fellow and Director of Studies in History at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. His recent books include "The Birth of a Consumer Society" and "Business Life and Public Policy."

 BODY:

ROAD TO DIVORCE
England, 1530-1987.
By Lawrence Stone.
Illustrated. 460 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press.
$29.95. 
 WE live in a conjugal age. Marriage is the standard against which we judge our most intimate relationships. Moralists praise it, poets celebrate it, politicians support it, commerce panders to it, advertisers exploit it, children play at it. It is a most pervasive ideal.
But if in most Western societies most people marry, more people also divorce than ever before. For, paradoxically, we also live in a divorcing society. The popularity of entering marriage may still be growing, but the popularity of leaving it is growing much faster.
From being a scandalous and sinful rarity, virtually impossible for most people to achieve, divorce has become a morally neutral commonplace, available to all. From being a sanctified and indissoluble contract, marriage has come to be a socially popular convenience -- so easily escaped from that one American woman was legally divorced 16 times in 11 years.
The pursuit of happiness and the escape from misery through divorce have been greatly aided by legal change, by rising standards of living and the decline of religion, by the incidence of war and the struggle for female equality. These and much else have made divorce, as Lawrence Stone puts it in his major study, "Road to Divorce," as much a part of contemporary life as death and taxes. The principle, first adumbrated by Milton, that a marriage without love or respect is dead and should be legally buried as soon as practicable, has become the law of the land.
Nor does the revolutionary change end there. The ancient injustices that confined the availability of divorce to an opulent masculine elite have been swept away -- the poor now have equal access to the divorce court with the rich, as do wives with husbands. After centuries of deprivation, those denied divorce are now only too eager to indulge in it. In England, as Mr. Stone points out, more women file for divorce than men, and the working classes have recourse to it four times as much as the professional middle classes.
As "Road to Divorce" illustrates, the rate of increase in the incidence of divorce over the last century is quite breathtaking. Perhaps the most vivid way to express it is to remember that whereas in England and Wales in 1857 only four divorce decrees were granted, the figure for 1985 was 160,000. The great expansion is a 20th-century phenomenon. Fivefold increases with each world war and a further threefold increase since Britain's no-fault divorce legislation of 1971 mark the major turning points. The experience of divorce is now so pervasive that it is estimated that a third of all marriages in England will end in divorce. (The figure is even higher in the United States, where half of all married couples divorce.)
In the face of such figures Mr. Stone can reasonably claim that "the metamorphosis of a largely non-separating and non-divorcing society, such as England from the Middle Ages to the mid-nineteenth century, into a separating and divorcing one in the late twentieth, is perhaps the most profound and far-reaching social change to have occurred in the last five hundred years."
Voltaire was less than accurate when he wrote that divorce is as old as marriage. It was the need for divorce that arrived with the wedding ceremony, not access to it. Fielding was closer to the mark when he wrote in 1734, "Many a man wants a wife, but more want to get rid of one." The all too frequent human tragedy for both spouses was their inability to achieve the riddance. So inevitably and quite properly, this book is as much concerned with marriage as with its dissolution. If one does not appreciate the essential social, economic and political role of marriage in early modern England one will not understand why the opposition to dissolving marriage ties was so violent and so effective. Satisfying the need for love, affection and procreation, and gratifying the needs of lust, were important, but for many these were secondary to such vital functions as achieving a viable family economy, cementing alliances between families and kin groups, or simply transferring property. As Mr. Stone puts it, "emotions are . . . more ephemeral and volatile than interests."
The first purpose of this book is therefore to identify and explain the extraordinary laxity and ambiguity of the English laws of marriage that endured up to the Marriage Act of 1753, the equally extraordinary strictness of the laws of separation and divorce that lasted until the Divorce Reform Act of 1857, and the even more extraordinary ways the public tried to exploit the ambiguity of the former and undermine the rigidity of the latter. The ingenuity involved in both was impressive, and Mr. Stone points out that the history of connivance and collusion survived well into the 20th century, as A. P. Herbert's "Holy Deadlock" and Evelyn Waugh's "Handful of Dust" made hilariously clear. Even the infamous wife sales -- in which wives were taken to market with halters around their necks and sold by their husbands to the highest bidders -- were usually prearranged as to both price and successful bidder (although one unfortunate wife was recorded as being sold for a leg of mutton).
The other major objective of "Road to Divorce" is to trace the slow and irregular evolution of moral values between the Reformation and the present day. The route is one from unabashed patriarchy to tentative equality, with most of the progress compressed into the present century. It is difficult to overestimate the revolution in mental and behavioral attitudes involved. As Mr. Stone writes, "It is easy to forget that under the patriarchal system of values, as expressed in the enacted law as it endured until the nineteenth century, a married woman was the nearest approximation in a free society to a slave."
Given a male-dominated society, women faced a long battle for liberation from total legal subordination. Male lawyers, male clergy and the male elite were all highly resistant to change. Governments -- dominated by males -- were usually happy to leave well alone. But as Mr. Stone also points out, upper- and middle-class women, no less than men, have been traditionally fearful of any relaxation of the divorce laws. As one of the women fighting the introduction of divorce into Ireland, which was decisively defeated in 1986, said: "A woman voting for divorce is like a turkey voting for Christmas."
For the general reader, the divorce revolution of the last 30 years will probably be the most fascinating part of this book. It is not the sixfold increase in the English divorce rate since 1960 that is most arresting, but the fact that this explosion has done no more than cut the duration of marriage back to its traditional length. The present-day high divorce rate merely does what a historically high mortality rate used to do. The duration of marriage is remarkable more for its stability than its change in 20th-century England -- an average of over 30 years per marriage between 1900 and 1945. Indeed, the average proportion of life spent married marginally increased in that period -- from 52 percent to 56 percent.
There are many such gems to be found in this volume, perhaps the most surprising being that marriages preceded by a trial period of living together are more likely to end in quick divorce than those where the couple did not live together. Practice no more makes perfect in these cases than it does in those of people who remarry after divorce.
Another surprise is that England has the highest divorce rate of any country in the European Community. To this and many other variables -- from the current spectacular levels of illegitimacy to the increased economic independence of women -- "Road to Divorce" offers a sure-footed and fascinating commentary.
Lawrence Stone is one of my favorite historians. Given his originality, his creativity, his sheer productivity, he ought to be favored by more of our profession than he is. Yet his monuments to scholarship inspire as much outrage as they do respect. His hyperbole provokes correction. His hypotheses provoke challenge. His errors provoke fury. His ideas provide employment for whole armies of academics, all chipping away at the great landmarks with which he has dotted the historical landscape.
This latest work will probably be more respectfully received than most. It is admirably solid. It is soundly researched. It would establish the reputation of a lesser man. But by Mr. Stone's standards it is less challenging, less path-breaking, less provoking than usual. Roderick Phillips's "Putting Asunder: A History of Divorce in Western Society" (1988) is a more comprehensive and in many ways a more satisfying book.
Is the enfant terrible becoming an eminence grise at last? As Mr. Stone (until his retirement this year, the Dodge Professor of History at Princeton University) moves from his brash neolithic youth to his serene paleolithic maturity, are we to look forward less to disturbing monoliths and more to imposing and enduring megaliths? If so the historical lithographists can spend more time on Stone-polishing than Stone-breaking. A few Stone worshipers may even appear. For as the historical Stone-work builds up to pyramid-like proportions, few will be able convincingly to deny that Lawrence Stone is now our most impressive living historian.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ROAD TO DIVORCE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); WALES (73%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MARRIAGE (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (73%); WRITERS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); RELIGION (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (66%); 

PERSON: MCKENDRICK, NEIL; STONE, LAWRENCE LAWRENCE STONE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



152 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: For Russians, Firsthand Lessons In Capitalism

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
A GROUP of Soviet executives, including the chief accountant of a Siberian tire plant, a lawyer and a division chief for a machine-building plant, have arrived in the county to study firsthand the dynamics of America's market-driven economy.
Thirty-eight men and three women began a monthlong executive management program two weeks ago at Iona College in New Rochelle. It is being conducted by the faculty of the college's Hagan School of Business, in partnership with Sinerghia, a Moscow-based management-training organization, and the Institute of the National Economy in Moscow, the largest educational research center in the Soviet Union. 
 Dr. Vitaly Ivanovich Vidyapin, who has been the rector of the economic institute for 10 years, said: 'I myself am now a student, and I am glad of the opportunity. But we brought many young people in our delegation because they are the ones who represent the future. Our 13,000 students make up the generation that will enter the market economy, so I am here to learn more about it.'
 
'Who Would Have Dreamed?'
 Charles F. O'Donnell, dean of the Hagan School, said, 'Who would have dreamed a few years ago that we would be teaching Soviet business leaders how to move into the free enterprise system?'
The program is under the direction of Dr. Eduardo S. Paderon, assistant dean of the business school, and includes courses taught by Dr. O'Donnell and Dr. Paderon. These cover the fundamentals of marketing, finance, accounting, United States business law, economics, management and business strategy. Some are being taught in Russian, others in English with the help of translators.
'Guest lecturers from industry, including the president of Nynex International and the head of Stella D'oro Biscuit Company, are also going to address the group,' said Dr. O'Donnell. 'But it's not going to be all classroom work.'
The Russians especially want to visit American manufacturing plants and to see how Fortune 500 companies operate, so several tours of companies in the metropolitan region are planned. 'We're going to the General Motors plant in Tarrytown, International Business Machines plants in Fishkill and Poughkeepsie and to Avon headquarters in Rye,' Dr. O'Donnell said.
The group will also visit two bastions of capitalism: the New York Stock Exchange and a New Jersey shopping mall.
 
Tickets to a Broadway Show
 Also included in the itinerary is a trip to Brighton Beach in Brooklyn, to visit the large Russian community there, and tickets to the Broadway show, 'Black and Blue.'
'Of course we're delighted to be playing a role in the training of Soviet business leaders,' Dr. O'Donnell said, 'but the man behind all of this is Dr. Eheil Ash.' Dr. Ash, a native of Russia, has been a professor of accounting at Iona since 1980.
He was invited to lecture in the Soviet Union last summer, and developed the contacts that led to the program. 'There was a lot of red tape involved,' Dr. O'Donnell said, 'but in July three heads of the Russian group came over and met with us on campus and we hammered out the program together.'
Dr. Ash, who once was a professor of accounting at the Institute of the National Economy, is the author of nine books on accounting practices that are still used as authoritative textbooks in the Soviet Union. But in 1972, he said, he was dismissed from the faculty, when it was revealed that he wanted to emigrate from the Soviet Union.
'My wife and my son and I left the Soviet Union in 1973,' Dr. Ash said. 'We first went to Israel and three years later we came to the United States. Accounting here is completely different, so I started taking courses in accounting and English. Seven years later, I became a professor of accounting at Iona. '
In June, Dr. Ash and his wife, Lily, returned to Russia for the first time since they had left.
'We were very excited and just a little apprehensive,' Dr. Ash recalled. 'We went because I was invited by my old colleagues at the institute to give three lectures on the free-market economy in order to prepare big companies in the Soviet Union for private ownership and joint ventures.'
At the end of the lecture series, Professor Ash said, Dr. Vidyapin expressed interest in sending representatives from the largest manufacturing companies in Russia to the United States to learn more about private enterprise practices.
The state institute 'was founded in 1904 by Russian merchants,' Dr. Vidyapin said. 'It is probably one of the oldest business schools in the world. We have a faculty of 500 professors -- scientists and economists who are the equivalents of American Ph.D.'s.'
 
Next Program Planned
 Now Dr. Vidyapin and Dr. Mikhail Ioffe, who is the general manager of Sinerghia, are leading the first group. A second monthlong program with another Soviet group has been planned with Iona for November. And in December, a delegation of top-level representatives from the Soviet Petroleum Ministry is coming for two weeks.
'We hope to take them to Texaco headquarters in Westchester,' Professor Ash said, 'and perhaps go for a few days to one of the oil-producing states, either Texas or Oklahoma, if their budget allows it.'
The Russians, he said, are paying their own way, with each particular enterprise in the Soviet Union paying for its own representatives to come to the United States. 'Every group will probably spend a total of $175,000 to $230,000 here,' he said.
The tuition fee paid to Iona by the Russians 'covers our costs,' Dr. O'Connell said. 'We don't want to make a profit -- we only want to come out even.'
Dr. Ioffe, who helped design the program with Dr. Paderon of Iona, said he hoped to be able to organize regular exchange programs between the Soviet Union and the United States.
'For the first time in 60 to 70 years of Soviet history, leaders of different Soviet enterprises are establishing contacts with the West,' Dr. Ioffe said. 'We are anxious to investigate American business methods. Especially, we want to learn more about how to become entrepreneurial. We are economists ourselves, so for us it is perhaps not too difficult to understand the dynamics that govern a free marketplace.'
 
The First Visit, for Most
 With the exception of Dr. Ioffe and Dr. Vidyapin, none of the members of the Soviet group had visited the United States before. The group is diverse -- it includes executives from the chemical and timber industries, an electrical engineer from the Ukraine, and representatives of the construction industry, for example. Few speak English. And yet, at a reception for the delegation at the Tarrytown Hilton Inn that was attended by local and county officials and Iona faculty members, the Russians eagerly gave their first impressions of the United States.
With the help of a translator, Zinaida Alexandrovna Dorozhkina, the accountant from the tire plant in Siberia, said that she could already see how the United States economy differed from that of the Soviet Union.
Others said the sights they had seen on a bus tour to Manhattan had amazed them.
 
Impressions of America
 Speaking in English, Valeria Louchinkova, a lawyer with the Sinerghia venture, said: 'I could not believe the skyscrapers. There were so many of them, so imposing, so beautiful. But I could not believe what we saw when we rode through Harlem, either. The United States has many contrasts.'
And the chief of a division of a machine-building plant, Anatolij Shevchouk, emphasized that he found the people from Iona 'to be warm and sincere -- and many speak Russian, which is good.'
The reception ended with gifts presented by the Russians to the Americans and then speeches were made.
'We are talking a lot,' Dr. Ioffe said with a smile, 'because in a free economy that is how it is done. You talk and talk and talk and no one can stop you. Right?'
 
MOSCOW ON THE HUDSON
 A DELEGATION of 41 Soviet executives is staying at the Tarrytown Hilton Inn, which was chosen in July by the group of Russians who helped plan the free-enterprise study program being conducted with Iona College in New Rochelle.
'We took them to see several hotels, but the Tarrytown Inn -- with its view of the Hudson River -- bowled them over,' said Dr. Eduardo S. Paderon of Iona. 'The hotel is also supplying us with classrooms. Many of the courses are held right on the premises. We go back to Iona when we need to work on the computers.'
Val Reyes, the general manager of the hotel, said the Russians were getting a 'competitive' hotel rate.
 
'Extremely Nice Guests'
 'We are glad to have their business,' Mr. Reyes said. 'They're extremely nice guests. Very appreciative of anything we do for them. For instance, the other day we lent several of them tennis racquets so they could use our courts, and we were thanked so profusely.'
The indoor pool at the inn is also a favorite of the Russians, Mr. Reyes noted. 'They use it a lot and seem to really enjoy it,' he said.
With few exceptions, the Russians are sharing rooms. 'They are paying us in dollars, which are very scarce, I understand, in the Soviet Union,' said John Cunningham, director of sales at the Tarrytown Inn, 'Just for fun they've been handing out rubles to the staff. We've included two meals, a full American breakfast and a big buffet lunch, in the rate. They're on their own for dinner.'
 
Orange Juice Is a Favorite>HE>
And what do the Russians like to eat?
The executive chef, Jacques Metrailler, said the delegation was especially fond of stews, potatoes, bread and cake.
'They can't seem to get enough orange juice and they drink a lot of soda,' Mr. Metrailler said. 'We've noticed that although they seem to enjoy all our American foods, they don't like anything with tomatoes.'
Mr. Metrailler said recently that he would be serving borscht and a special Russian salad at lunch a few days later.
'By that time,' he added, 'they will have been here long enough to want something that tastes like home.'

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles F. O'Donnell, right, dean of Hagan School of Business at Iona, receiving portrait of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev from Yaroslav Pinchukov, a Soviet executive (pg. 1); Anatolij Shevchouk, chief of a division of a machine-building plant, with Valeria Louchinkova, a lawyer, two of the Soviet executives who have arrived in the county to study firsthand the country's market-driven economy (pg. 12) (Suzanne DeChillo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%); IBMC (BRU) (52%); IBM (NYSE) (52%); IBM (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (65%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (65%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STELLA D'ORO CO (65%); STELLA D'ORO BISCUIT CO OF CALIFORNIA (65%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: IONA COLLEGE

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TIRE MFG (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); MANAGER TRAINING (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1991



153 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 12; Page 9; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Utility Seeks Surcharge For Conservation Effort

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
LAST year, Northeast Utilities fell $11 million short of its goal to provide $24 million worth of conservation services to its customers in Connecticut. The power company found that few people wanted to hear about energy efficiency.
This year, with the onset of colder weather and the continuing standoff in the Persian Gulf, energy conservation is suddenly popular again. The utility said it expects to spend about $38 million this year on the conservation program of its subsidiary, the Connecticut Light and Power Company; it expects that will rise to more than $60 million next year. 
 Based on commitments made in recent weeks, the company said, its main conservation program for commercial customers will grow from $3 million this year to about $16 million next year.
The conservation effort has grown so quickly that the utility decided to ask the State Department of Public Utility Control to attach a 2 percent surcharge to its bills to pay for conservation measures, company officials have said.
 
First Request of Its Kind
 "Certainly the timing has had something to do with" the conservation program's success, said Jeffrey R. Kotkin, a spokesman for the utility, which serves most Connecticut towns. "Since the Middle East crisis began, people are thinking about conservation for the first time in years."
Judith K. O'Reilly, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Public Utilities Control, which will consider the request for the surcharge, said no utility in the state has ever requested a rate increase solely to pay for conservation programs.
 Joseph A. Belanger, director of research and policy development for the energy division of the State Office of Policy and Management, said Connecticut has probably been quicker than other states to embrace conservation because of its heavy reliance on oil. About 57 percent of the state's energy comes from oil, he said, compared with a national average of about 43 percent.
The oil price increases since Aug. 1 have forced Connecticut consumers to pay about $1.75 billion more than they would have if oil prices had remained the same, Mr. Belanger said, and the cost of oil as a percentage of the state's disposable income has jumped to 11 percent from 7.5.
"It's raised everyone's consciousness, not only about conservation but also about our energy vulnerability," Mr. Belanger said.
 Daniel L. Sosland, a staff lawyer with the Conservation Law Foundation in Boston, one of the organizations that cooperated with Northeast two years ago in drafting the conservation effort, said the foundation would help the utility refine the programs.
 
Looking for Incentives
 Mr. Sosland noted that while Northeast charges small commercial and industrial customers for conservation consultations, the New England Electric System in eastern Massachusetts offers the same services free.
"The better the incentive, the more likely people are to participate in a conservation program," Mr. Sosland said.
The state's consumer counsel, Eugene M. Koss, said he has been generally pleased with Northeast's conservation efforts over the past two years. Still, he said, he will be reviewing the surcharge request carefully.
"These measures do have to be paid for, no question about it," Mr. Koss said. "But our office would not necessarily agree that the numbers add up to a 2 percent surcharge."
 Bruce J. Wall, head of Northeast's residential-conservation program, said that requests to wrap water heaters with insulation, one of the most effective cost-saving measures, have quadrupled since Aug. 1. He said the company offers its water-heating customers a free conservation service that includes wrapping the water heater and reducing the temperature to 120 degrees, insulating eight feet of pipe leading from the water heater, replacing shower heads and faucet aerators with low-flow devices and cleaning refrigerator coils. The service can save customers up to $150 a year, Mr. Wall said.
 
Efficient Bulbs
 The utility said it received more than 9,000 requests for a new catalogue of energy-efficient light bulbs, and several hundred customers placed orders within the first few days.
"Most customers are not aware of these products," Mr. Wall said. "What we're trying to do is create the demand in the marketplace."
The company also began a new service this month, hauling away customers' old refrigerators.
"What we've found is that if people have one of these old refrigerators, they have it plugged in, even if they're only using it to cool a six-pack of their favorite beverage," Mr. Wall said. The company estimates most people will save $100 a year by getting rid of the refrigerators.
In the first week of the program, the company collected 200 refrigerators; by the end of next year, Mr. Wall estimated, Northeast will have hauled away 12,000, saving consumers a total of $1.2 million annually in electrical costs.
Mr. Kotkin said the company's commercial and industrial conservation programs have been similarly successful in recent weeks, although he said that it could be attributed as much to a softening in the Connecticut economy, prompting companies to look for areas to cut energy bills, as to the invasion of Kuwait. Still, he said, based on the growth the company has seen since Aug. 1, it now expects to spend more than $20 million this year, and almost $40 million next year, on commercial conservation measures.
 
'Money Adds Up Quickly'
 The bulk of its commercial-industrial budget, Mr. Kotkin said, will go to the company's Energy Action program, which increases the efficiency of heating, air-conditioning and ventilation systems.
"There, the money adds up quickly because you may be spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on a single building," he said. The company said it will spend about $3 million on the program this year, but next year it expects an increase to $16 million.
 Mr. Kotkin said another part of Northeast's conservation program will spend $6 million this year and the same amount next year on state buildings, yielding an estimated savings of $3.6 million annually in energy costs.
 He said that in addition to the immediate returns to consumers, the overall conservation program will yield long-term benefits as well. If energy use had continued to increase at the pace it increased through the 1980's, he said, the company would have had to start planning now for costly new generating plants.
 Mr. Kotkin said conservation measures already in place have reduced peak demand by 200 megawatts, and conservation measures that will be enacted by the mid-1990's will save another 400 megawatts. The total, 600 megawatts, is the output of a nuclear plant the size of Connecticut Yankee in Haddam.
 
'A Bit of Self-Promotion'
 But regulators, while saying they are pleased with the progress on conservation, said they are still concerned about electric rates.
Mr. Koss said he is particularly concerned because the conservation spending will have only a fraction of the impact of other Northeast programs. The utility still has to phase in 30 percent of the cost of the Millstone 3 nuclear power plant in Waterford and 20 percent of its share of the Seabrook nuclear plant in New Hampshire, he said.
"I think there's a bit of self-promotion going on here to get people to forget what might be driving the company's rates," Mr. Koss said. "And you've got to be careful about how quickly you build up a program like this.
"Just because $24 million of conservation is a good thing, it doesn't necessarily follow that $60 million of conservation is more than twice as good. A glass of wine before dinner is good, but a whole case of wine before dinner isn't."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NU (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (71%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (71%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221119 OTHER ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT LIGHT & POWER CO (71%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (58%); NATIONAL GRID USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES; RATES ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1990



154 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Please, Not Another Failed Presidency

BYLINE: By Bert Lance; Bert Lance, President Carter's first director of Management and Budget, is the author of "The Truth Of The Matter."

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
A political observer who suggested any similarity at all three months ago between the Presidencies of George Bush and Jimmy Carter would have been referred somewhere for examination -- but that was then.
This is now: hostages held by a madman ruler in the Middle East; runaway oil prices; skyrocketing gasoline prices; high interest rates and a budget deficit that generates more complaints than the weather, and as much effectiveness in doing something about it. All that plus a President who is campaigning hard against Washington "insiders" while his approval rating in the polls drops faster than the Dow Jones average -- from 80 percent earlier this year to below 50 percent in one national poll last week. Even their symbolic attempts to right the ship of state are similar: Carter turned off the lights around Washington's statues and shrines. Bush turned off the government itself. 
 But Carter was an aberration to the system, an outsider who believed he should make his Presidential decisions in the best interests of the nation, never minding what Washington's insiders might say. He thought the public would applaud him and re-elect him. He did it his way and lost his bid for re-election.
Bush is the classic insider, despite what he says on TV and on the campaign trail: the son of a U.S. senator, a Congressman himself and then chairman of the Republican National Committee; Ambassador to the United Nations, director of the C.I.A. and Vice President for eight years. People ask where Bush is really from -- Connecticut, Maine or Texas? The answer is none of the above. George Bush is from Washington, D.C.
The truth is that Washington relies on a system of reward-or-punishment. Carter understood this, but refused to abide by it. Bush should understand it better than anyone. He is the latest victim, at least temporarily, of this system.
Liberal Democrats believed Carter was one of them, so they rewarded him with their support. When they found out that he wasn't as liberal as they wanted, they punished him by withdrawing support, which became a factor in his defeat in 1980.
Bush rewarded conservative Republicans by saying what they longed to hear: "No new taxes," a pledge he didn't have to make because he was going to beat Michael Dukakis anyhow. But he gave them that reward.
Now that he has had to break his promise, which was his fate from the moment he made it, the conservatives are punishing him, opposing the deficit reduction package which he endorsed and putting distance between their candidates and the President in this year's campaign.
The similarities are haunting. Both Presidents stumbled over taxes -- Carter when he decided we didn't need a $50 tax rebate for every American because the economy was improving without it; Bush because he made a commitment that he couldn't keep forever. Both Presidents are highly intelligent and astute political analysts, but despite those skills both were seen by voters as vacillators.
Even the White House organizational structure comes into play. Carter didn't have a chief of staff until too late in his Presidency. To a great extent, he was his own political advisor. Bush, with the sharpest political instincts of any President in this century and maybe in any century, has been preoccupied with the Middle East, and so has his chief political adviser, Secretary of State James Baker. Another key advisor, Lee Atwater, has been available only on a limited basis because of illness.
For domestic policy, Carter relied on Hamilton Jordan, who had worked closely with him in Atlanta but who was tagged as an "outsider" by the Washington establishment.
Bush's chief advisor for resolving the budget crisis was his chief of staff, John Sununu, the former Governor of New Hampshire, who has yet to be nominated by anyone in Washington for the "Mr. Congeniality" award. One thing we've learned is that the basic training for running the Federal Government isn't any better in New Hampshire than it is in Georgia.
Ronald Reagan avoided the vacillation charge the obvious way: He was firm and decisive, even when you thought he was wrong. His standing never weakened, and he remained a strong President. Bush now faces Carter's problem -- an Administration whose foreign policy is stuck in the sand of the Middle East and whose domestic program is bogged down in a debate over his policies and his strength or weakness as a leader.
Within the last two weeks, the dreaded term "failed Presidency" has been mentioned in some quarters for the first time in Bush's term. That kind of talk does America no good, because in politics perception has a habit of becoming reality.
A failed Presidency is not what this country needs. What we need instead is for this President to regain control of his foreign and domestic agendas so he will, to paraphrase the Reagan years, be Bush again.

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX RELIEF (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); TAX LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); HOSTAGE TAKING (57%); 

PERSON: LANCE, BERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CARTER, JIMMY; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JIMMY CARTER (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



155 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Students Have a Role in the Quality of Their Education

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As faculty members deeply concerned about the City University of New York, and as economists, we urge reconsideration of a tuition increase to deal with the massive budget cuts facing the university. The possibility of a tuition increase has apparently been dropped in the face of last year's student protests. We believe this politically easy decision will prove disastrous for the university. 
 The critical issue of quality of education -- which should be of interest to students (and their parents) -- was noticeably absent from the discussions last year, and so was an appreciation of the monetary value to students of a CUNY degree.
Student discontent focused on the proposed $200 a year increase in tuition. CUNY students, however, pay only half the typical tuition charged in comparable universities. Compared with CUNY's $1,250, the average annual tuition last year among a sample of public universities in urban industrialized areas was $2,475. For example, Rutgers charges $2,576, and the tuition at private universities, of course, far exceeds these amounts.
CUNY's tuition, moreover, is a small fraction of the earnings students may expect over their working lives because of a CUNY degree. The value of a college degree to the average American student is roughly $400,000. Since students receive so much benefit from a CUNY degree, it is reasonable to expect them to share the costs of their education.
Low-income students, moreover, will be shielded from any increase through tuition assistance. The higher charges will not deny them access to the university. Needy students in private universities in New York State receive considerably more than $1,250 a year in public tuition assistance because of the higher tuitions these institutions charge.
CUNY students have traditionally benefited from excellent employment opportunities on graduation because employers perceive that a CUNY degree implies a level of training comparable to some of the best universities in the country. The quality of a CUNY education has declined substantially as a result of budget cuts in the last two years and will decline further with future cuts. More than half of all classes (now significantly larger) are taught by part-time faculty members, fewer courses are offered, and libraries have been told to stop buying books.
Another consequence of budgetary cuts must be the loss of CUNY's best faculty members, depriving students of intellectual challenge and excitement. CUNY's tradition of providing New York City residents with an outstanding education at a nominal cost could be lost.
CUNY may be expected to share in budget cuts arising from the state's fiscal difficulties. It is reasonable to expect students to share in restoring the high quality of a CUNY education.
MARJORIE HONIG, HYMAN SARDY
New York, Oct. 13, 1990
 
The writers are chairmen of the eco-nomics departments at, respectively, Hunter and Brooklyn Colleges. The letter was also signed by the econom-ics chairmen at Baruch and Queens Colleges and the College of Staten Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY)

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION TUITION FEES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYEE TUITION ASSISTANCE (86%); WRITERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); POOR POPULATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); 

PERSON: HONIG, MARJORIE; SARDY, HYMAN

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



156 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Head Injury Claims Too Many Young Lives

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You report that fatal accidents in the United States have decreased as the public has become vigilant (front page, Oct. 7).
 While encouraged that the death rate has fallen by 21 percent, I must point out that an interagency task force from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, reported in February 1989 that by conservative estimate, the figure for traumatic brain injuries (assault to the brain) is more than two million a year, with 500,000 severe enough to require hospital admission.
The same report states that traumatic brain injury is the leading killer and cause of disability in children and young adults.
While deaths are down from accidents, which is good news, the need for rehabilitation and appropriate education of people with head injury is greater than ever. As more children and adults with severe-to-profound head injury are saved, the need for community-based care grows. Of those who survive each year, approximately 70,000 to 90,000 endure lifelong debilitating loss of function. An additional 2,000 will exist in a persistent vegetative state.
The loss in happy, fulfilling lives is staggering and sad. The economic costs are staggering, approaching $25 billion a year; one more chilling fact -- child abuse accounts for 64 percent of infant head injuries. At the National Head Injury Foundation, we call this the silent epidemic.
What can be done? Public education and awareness aimed at prevention is the first step. Community and special education programs need to be established in our schools to integrate people with traumatic brain injury into the mainstream. Vocational training, rehabilitation, supported employment and jobs that recognize the training and skills of a survivor of a traumatic head injury are needed, along with appropriate community housing.
 
GEORGE A. ZITNAY
President
National Head Injury Foundation
Washington, Oct. 17, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (58%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & STROKE (58%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); NATIONAL HEAD INJURY FOUNDATION (54%); NATIONAL HEAD INJURY FOUNDATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; HEAD; CHILDREN AND YOUTH WOUNDS & INJURIES (95%); HEAD INJURIES (93%); BRAIN (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); BRAIN INJURIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); NEUROSCIENCE (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DISABLED WORKERS (74%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); STROKES (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



157 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: How to Make U.N. Ready for the 21st Century

 BODY:
To the Editor:
For far too long have the affairs of the United Nations been confined to the corridors and conference rooms of the elegant building on the East River in New York. Much of humankind has tended to look upon the organization either as a necessary nuisance or as an opportunistic option. The world at large has shown a benign neglect, bordering on callous indifference, to vital issues of organization and management, leaving them largely to the dynamics of diplomacy and the bonhomie of bureaucracy. 
 With the sweep of stateless economic forces, the velocity of technological change, the growing endangerment of earth and enfeebled sovereignty, traditional concepts like security, interdependence and development need to be redefined. The question that needs to be addressed is how far the United Nations is structurally and managerially capable of commensurate response to the looming challenges of the future. The bulk of the work of the United Nations is in the nonsecurity and political fields. While the present Secretary General has shown remarkable dexterity in taking advantage of the end of the cold war in the political and security fields, leadership in fields such as economic development leaves much to be desired.
Any secretary general will give priority to issues of war and peace. The international community has to consider how to insure that effective leadership is provided to other areas. Bereft of any process, selection of a secretary general of integrity and intellect is pretty much now left to good will and Godspeed. The suggestion that the secretary general should have only a single term of seven years bristles with complications, akin to the debate in the United States about the constitutional bar on the President's seeking a third term. Equally flawed is the idea of a troika of three deputy secretaries general. That will only create another level in a heavy hierarchal structure.
What is more important is to define the character of the political culture that permeates the organization and to draw a clear line between top-level political executives and international civil service. Political appointees should serve for no more than four or five years and should be rotated among groups of countries.
No civil servants should be elevated to the cabinet. This would avoid the arbitrariness that governs their
appointment and remove a major element of staff demoralization. There is also need for reform and streamlining in intergovernmental machinery and priority setting to reflect emerging national and global priorities.
 Reform in the United Nations should also include a neglected dimension: how countries are represented and how business is conducted. Given the range and complexity of issues discussed, the practice of staffing missions with diplomats should yield to greater diversity and expertise. The culture of intergovernmental negotiations should shift from resolutioning to reconciliation.
Most of all, it is clear that basic structural and managerial changes cannot come through introspection. Only through the support and scrutiny of the public and the news media can real reform take place.
 
C. B. RAU
New York, Oct. 18, 1990
 
The writer is a senior officer at the United Nations.

GRAPHIC: Drawing
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



158 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Several Issues in This Week's U.S. Sales

 BODY:
The tentative schedule of Treasury financings this week consists of a record supply of Government securities for sale, beginning with today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills. And for the remainder of the week the Treasury will be busy with its quarterly refunding, consisting of three- and 10-year notes and 30-year bonds.
There will also be an auction of 161-day cash management bills on the same day the 30-year bond is sold.
By late Friday the three- and 10-year notes were trading on a when-issued basis at prices to yield 7.84 percent and 8.55 percent, respectively. The long-term 30-year bond was offered in when-issued trading at a price to yield 8.69 percent. In the bill market, the outstanding three- and six-month bills were bid at 7.09 percent and 7.05 percent, respectively.
New Government agency issues expected this week include a $850 million, two-part sale of callable debentures by the Federal National Mortgage Association. Fannie Mae interest rates will be announced tomorrow for the $400 million in five-year debentures callable in 1993, and for the $450 million of 30-year debentures callable in 1995.
The Student Loan Marketing Association today plans to price $650 million in floating-rate notes due May 9, through various securities dealers. The Sallie Mae notes will be priced at a spread to the bond-equivalent yield of the 91-day Treasury bill, with the interest rates adjusted the day after each weekly Treasury bill auction.
The following fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
Household International Inc., $5 million in $10 depository preferred shares, NR/A-3/A-. Blunt, Ellis & Loewi Inc.
 
Source: McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei Inc.
 
Ratings: MCM/Moody's/Standard & Poor's.
 
TAX-EXEMPT
 
 WEDNESDAY
 
Washington Suburban Sanitary District, Maryland, $70 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TENTATIVE OFFERINGS THIS WEEK
 
Boston, $170 million in revenue bonds for Boston City Hospital. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
 
Chicago, $200 million in Chicago-O'Hare International Airport special facilities revenue bonds (American Airlines). Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 
Connecticut Health and Education Facilities Authority, $124.7 million in Yale-New Haven Hospital debt securities. Goldman, Sachs.
 
New Hampshire, $50 million in general obligation bonds for the College Saving program. Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
 
Trimble County, Ky., $100 million in pollution control revenue bonds for Louisville Gas and Electric. Goldman, Sachs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%); SLM (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (68%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (68%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (65%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); NAICS221320 SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITIES (52%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (52%); SIC4952 SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (52%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); HSBC FINANCE CORP (65%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (61%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); SLM CORP (54%); WASHINGTON SUBURBAN SANITARY COMMISSION (52%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); LOUISVILLE GAS & ELECTRIC CO (50%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS BONDS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); AIRLINES (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); CALLABLE SECURITIES (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); AIRPORTS (65%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (65%); TAX LAW (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



159 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Auditors Adjust to Desperate Times

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
Crazy Price Waterhouse. Its prices are insane!
To win new clients in these toughening economic times, the blue-chip accounting firm is practically giving away auditing services worth as much as $25,000. In one recent case, it even agreed to do an audit free of charge.
These are desperate times for many accounting firms. The spate of acquisitions and mergers over the last decade has shrunk the number of companies to audit, forcing several of the nation's top accounting firms to combine in the last two years. Now, the weakening economy is making it harder for firms to sell tax and consulting services, the added lines that helped many sustain double-digit annual growth over the last several years.
 
Nonrecurring Work
 "Today, as much as half of your work is nonrecurring, so our practice is much more sensitive to the economy than it was 10 years ago," said J. Michael Cook, chairman of Deloitte & Touche, one of the six largest accounting firms. "And when it slows down, we slow down." 
 Offering bargais on audits is only one consequence. Many national accounting firms have also thinned their ranks, and more layoffs are expected. Among other things, it means harder times for New York City, where many firms have their headquarters.
Spicer & Oppenheim, for example, a midsize New York firm, is behind on its rent and appears to be on the verge of breaking up; partners at Deloitte & Touche and Ernst & Young will be taking home less money this year, and Laventhol & Horwath, a midsize firm in Philadelphia, has cut its employees' pay by 10 percent,
Many firms are also naming fewer partners and are hiring fewer college graduates, and some are resorting to unusual money-making tactics. KPMG Peat Marwick, the industry's leader, is even advertising idle conference rooms for rent in New York and Chicago.
This squeeze has some business executives and investors worried that auditors might be tempted to take shortcuts on the job to trim costs. That is particularly ominous today, when business failures are on the rise and audited financial statements serve as added comforts for skittish investors.
 
Recovering Costs
 Competitors and other accounting experts wonder, for instance, how Price Waterhouse will recover its costs on bargain-priced audits of Cowen & Company, Lipper & Company and Kalb Voorhis & Company, three Wall Street clients it secured.
Arthur Andersen, Deloitte & Touche, Richard A. Eisner & Company and Price Waterhouse all wanted the Kalb Voorhis job, worth anywhere from $120,000 to $140,000 a year in audit fees. And all but Price Waterhouse had high-ranking partners with close personal ties to Mark Richard Feller, the senior partner of Kalb Voorhis. But the three-year assignment went to Price Waterhouse.
Though Price partners deny it and Mr. Feller declined to comment, several people in the industry said Price Waterhouse agreed to do the job free of charge for the first year. Even more surprising, they said, was that Kalb is on a calendar-year cycle, meaning that Price will be doing the work during its peak season.
 
Willing to Lose Money
 Accounting firms have increasingly chosen to lose money on audits, hoping to make up the loss by selling a client tax or consulting work later. They may also hope to lower the cost of providing the service by improving the company's own internal controls or record keeping. Or they may see providing free services as a way to win a new client.
Still, giving away one's services may not buy customer loyalty and can backfire, as clients take advantage of what they see as the increasing interchangeability of those who perform their audits.
Kenneth Lipper, the chairman of Lipper & Company, said he gave his business to Price Waterhouse on the condition that the firm guarantee to do the work at the same price for an additional year.
It is not hard to understand why accounting firms that only 10 years ago could haughtily sit back and wait for clients are being humbled now.
"There are fewer businesses being started, fewer takeovers, fewer mergers and more people going out of business," said Richard A. Eisner, the head of the large accounting firm in New York that bears his name. "Plus, when the business community feels a recession, they're reluctant to spend the kind of money on accounting that they did in the past."
 
Little Change in Rules
 At the same time, the two lines of business that were once the heroes of the profession, tax and consulting, are no longer so high and mighty. Tax departments that thrived on the avalanche of takeovers and underwritings in the 1980's have less to do these days between major tax reform bills. The new budget accord is expected to rekindle demand only slightly because it hardly changes the rules on corporate taxes.
Consulting is hurting, too, as companies put off discretionary projects and bargain hard on those jobs they keep going.
The changing economics has hurt even the firms that were once the most prosperous. For the first time in recent memory, for example, several Big Six accounting firms have been slow to publish their annual earnings, suggesting that the news is not glowing. Mr. Cook of Deloitte & Touche, the firm created by a merger last year, said his firm would not release fiscal 1990 results because it would require relying on pre-merger figures that are not comparable -- an unusual reason for an accounting powerhouse with experts who have overcome more challenging hurdles.
 
Some Casualties Expected
 The story in the profession's second tier is grimmer, and some midsize firms are not expected to survive. These firms, like Laventhol & Horwath and Spicer & Oppenheim, are generally unable to attract the large public companies, most of which prefer a Big Six signature on their books. And yet they compete for the smaller clientele with local firms that have much lower overhead.
Of course, not all firms are faltering. Partners at Kenneth Leventhal & Company, a midsize West Coast firm that specializes in troubled real estate investments, are believed to be still outearning their counterparts at larger firms thanks to clients like Donald J. Trump.
And some large firms are doing well: Arthur Andersen & Company S.C., the Swiss-based parent of the American firm, saw its United States revenue grow by 14.5 percent last year, to $2.3 billion. Price Waterhouse earned $258 million last year, up 14.2 percent, on United States revenues of $1.2 billion, up 9 percent. Those earnings provided Price's 935 United States partners with an average income of $276,000 last year.
 
Stories of Lost Jobs
 Far more typical of the slowdown are stories of lost jobs. The big firms named 12.4 percent fewer new partners this year than they did in 1989 and are letting older partners go by the hundreds. Recently, Michael J. Christensen, a 45-year-old partner in Ernst & Young's Milwaukee office who had put in 23 years with the firm, dashed to Chicago expecting a promotion and instead got a pink slip and an earful about the tough times.
"I guess it's like seeing what your clients have been through eventually catching up with your own business," Mr. Christensen said.
The firms are also cutting back campus recruitment efforts. "My hunch is they'll probably be looking at fewer numbers," said Lois Meerdink, the director of placement at the University of Illinois business school.
 
Erosion of Quality?
 But the competitive pressures are of concern not only to accountants. The more auditors are forced to lower their fees, the more some people worry about eroding audit quality.
"Boards want some assurance that audits are done appropriately, and you shouldn't have those kinds of questions going in because you're not paying for it," said Barbara Hackman Franklin, who sits on the audit committees of seven big public companies.
To cope with the difficult times, accounting firms are busy reinventing themselves. Nearly all the leading firms now have sizable practices devoted to bankruptcies and reorganizations, litigation support and environmental services. They are also zealously competing for the millions of dollars in contracts being awarded as part of the Government's savings industry bailout. And they are putting pressure on Washington to require audits of the more than 300 Federal agencies, departments and offices. The profession is also scrambling to open offices in places like the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
 
Inventing New Services
 Another popular strategy is to offer services that clearly pay for themselves. Coopers & Lybrand's "Dr. Claim" team, for instance, will check medical bills for insurers and employers for accuracy; Price Waterhouse is pushing a service to help multinational companies get full use of their foreign-tax credits, and Arthur Andersen will scrutinize companies' state and local tax obligations for possible savings.
"Originally, we went into these businesses because we saw our clients needed help in these areas," Mr. Eisner said of his firm. "Now we realize it's lucky we've gone into these other areas because this is the future of the profession."

GRAPHIC: Graph: Number of new partners and new recruits for America's big accountants (Sources: Company reports, Bowman's Accouting Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (95%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (63%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (95%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (92%); KALB VOORHIS & CO (81%); KPMG LLP (65%); COWEN GROUP INC (63%); EISNERAMPER LLP (62%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%); LIPPER & CO LP (51%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; INDUSTRY PROFILES ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (93%); AUDITS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); RANKINGS (71%); LAYOFFS (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (56%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH J MICHAEL COOK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



160 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Foreign Flavor for Publishing Leadership

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
Whatever else the 1990's bring for book publishing, they are already shaping up as the decade of the foreign-born executive. The appointment last week of Harold Evans, a native of Britain, as president and publisher of Random House is only the latest example.
Earlier this year, Alberto Vitale, who was born in Italy and spent part of his childhood in Egypt, became chief executive of Random House Inc. When Harold Miller retired last spring as chief executive at the Houghton Mifflin Company, he was succeeded by Nader F. Darehshori, who was a teacher in his native Iran before joining the Boston publisher. 
 Also at Random House Inc., Fred Jordan, a native of Austria, became publisher of Pantheon Books earlier this year, joining Sonny Mehta, the Indian-born, Cambridge-educated president of Alfred A. Knopf, another Random House division.
 
'Much Greater Understanding'
 "The global publishing village has shrunk in the last few years, and heads of houses now have to have a much greater understanding of different markets and different economies," said Alun Davies, the Welsh-born president of Bantam Doubleday Dell's international division.
The growing international profile of the American trade book industry stems from a heightened realization that foreign markets can yield increased profits -- something educational and scientific publishers have known for years. In fact, some American houses now earn more than 20 percent of their sales and profits overseas, compared with 5 percent about 10 to 15 years ago.
About a half-dozen American houses have sister companies in Britain, Canada, Australia or New Zealand, and are entering into co-publishing arrangements in Japan, Hungary and elsewhere. Buying world rights to books, they can coordinate publishing schedules and even author tours.
It does not require a foreign-born executive to oversee that coordination, of course. But when George Craig, who was born in Scotland, took over at Harper & Row three years ago and forged it into a trans-Atlantic publishing operation with William Collins Sons in Britain, he succeeded because "he came from an environment where publishers have succeeded because they were forced to sell books beyond the British Isles," said William M. Shinker, president of the HarperCollins trade division.
 
Chief Executive at Rizzoli
 The foreign flavor is also apparent at other houses. Gianfranco Monacelli, who was educated in Italy and Paris, is the chief executive of New York-based Rizzoli International Publications and Rizzoli International Bookstores Inc., which are owned by Rizzoli Editore, the Milan-based publishing company.
"I have trouble believing executives are picked for reasons of their passport," said Peter Mayer, the American who is the chief executive of the Penguin Group, based in London. "You pick them for their insight, vision and intelligence. But there is an international component to large-scale trade publishing today, and some of those qualities are inherent in people who have international backgrounds."
Donald S. Lamm, the president of W. W. Norton & Company, said Mr. Evans might have been selected to head the Random House publishing division for reasons in addition to his vision and intelligence.
"Random House may be looking over its shoulder at the relationship between HarperCollins here and in London," Mr. Lamm said, "and saying maybe we ought to firm up the linkage between Random House here and Random Century in London -- to yoke together two parts of the same publishing empire."
Some people who have worked with the foreign-born executives say they are not sure to what extent the executives derive strength from their culture. But Walter Weintz, who was vice president at the Atlantic Monthly Press when Mr. Evans was its editor in chief in 1984, said Mr. Evans's background was an advantage.
 
Journalistic Background
 "He has the kinds of international contacts that few Americans in publishing can approach," Mr. Weintz said, "and because of his journalist background, he would immediately pursue a good book or promising project. That kind of speed is not typical of the way large, stratified companies in this country work."
Similarly, Mr. Mehta is intensely curious about other people and other cultures, and he is skilled in devising ways to sell more books, said Lee Goerner, the publisher of Atheneum, who previously worked at Knopf.
Many Americans are similarly curious. But, Mr. Goerner said, "My hunch is that if you are from outside the predominant culture, you may spend more time studying, to see how it works, and may then go beyond the usual ways of doing things."
 
Importance of World Rights
 Mr. Vitale, who was a Fulbright scholar at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, did not come from a publishing background. Before joining Bantam in 1975, he worked for I.F.I., the Italian company that owns Fiat. But when he became head of Bantam, he expanded its international profile and emphasized the importance of acquiring English-language world rights.
Paul Neuthaler, Mr. Vitale's successor at Bantam Doubleday Dell, said it was natural and reasonable that foreign executives were making an impact in American publishing. "You cannot avoid thinking globally in this business anymore," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Craig, a native of Scotland who runs HarperCollins (John Sotomayor/The New York Times); Alberto Vitale, the Italian-born chief of Random House Inc. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); Sonny Mehta, the Indian native who heads Alfred A. Knopf. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (94%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); SCOTLAND (88%); CANADA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); ITALY (77%); AUSTRALIA (76%); AUSTRIA (73%); FRANCE (56%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: RANDOM HOUSE INC (94%); HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (91%); RIZZOLI INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: RANDOM HOUSE; KNOPF, ALFRED A, INC; HOUGHTON MIFFLIN CO

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BOOK TRADE PUBLISHING (91%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); BOOKSTORES (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN; VITALE, ALBERTO; DAREHSHORI, NADER F; EVANS, HAROLD; MEHTA, SONNY HAROLD MATTHEW EVANS (73%); NADER F DAREHSHORI (71%); HAROLD J MILLER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



161 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
The Painful Reckoning for Australia's Economy

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN

DATELINE: MELBOURNE, Australia

 BODY:
This is a nation famed for its entrepreneurial titans, larger-than-life empire builders like Rupert Murdoch and Alan Bond, and the Government is now turning to its entrepreneurs for help in bailing out faltering state companies and banks.
But the appeal for assistance and the plans to turn some state companies into private enterprises come as many private companies are themselves facing a crisis. 
 Mr. Bond has been forced to resign from his flagship company, the Bond Corporation; Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation is selling on the Australian stock exchange near its three-year low, and the entire economy is confronting fundamental new problems.
 
'You Almost Need Bad Times'
 In response to a financial squeeze affecting many institutions and companies, the Labor Government finally budged in the last two months on the issue of ownership and announced it would privatize significant portions of the nation's utilities and industry.
"You almost need bad times to get changes around here," said Alexander D. Erskine, chief economist for Citicorp Australia Ltd. "If something's not broke, don't fix it. But once the wheels fall off, you need to make changes."
Australia's financial community, with its handful of swashbuckling financiers from Australia's west, is undergoing a painful reckoning. Many economists and politicians blame excessive spending during the go-go years of the 1980's and a looser regulatory environment.
 
Struggling to Stay Alive
 Many corporate giants and smaller companies are struggling to stay alive, searching for foreign buyers and wrestling with their bankers for extra time to repay loans.
Some companies, like Broken Hill Proprietary Ltd., the largest industrial company in the country, are still earning high profits. Some, like Elders IXL Ltd., which makes Foster's beer, have been able to find Japanese partners that paid cash for substantial stakes in the business.
Still, in the 12 months to June, Elders had a loss of $1.09 billion (United States), the second-largest annual loss in the history of corporate Australia. Bond Corporation Holdings, from which Mr. Bond recently resigned, reported the largest loss, of $1.8 billion.
 
Murdoch's Debt: $8 Billion
 Mr. Murdoch, who is now an American citizen, has been able to expand his media business by selling a few assets to raise cash. Nonetheless, in addition to the depressed stock price of the News Corporation, its debt stands at more than $8 billion.
Australia's financial community received another severe blow in early September -- the death of Robert Holmes a Court, a shrewd investor who built an empire from nothing and for a time in the 1980's was Australia's richest man. Mr. Holmes a Court had been working doggedly to rebuild much of an empire that had collapsed after the 1987 stock market crash. His estate is being managed by his wife, Janet.
But others are being forced to unbundle their empires much faster than it took to put them together. Men like Mr. Bond, who built an international network in media, beer and property; Christopher Skase, the head of the Qintex Group, which tried unsuccessfully last year to take over MGM/UA, and Laurie Connell, who ran the Rothwells merchant bank, are at the forefront of the troubles brought about by the economic squeeze.
 
Expanded Too Quickly
 Analysts say these men borrowed excessively and expanded too quickly, and when interest rates soared and the economy soured, they were unable to meet the rising debt payments and cushion themselves against their falling sales.
"It was a share-asset boom," said Saul Eslake, chief economist at McIntosh Hamson Hoare Govett Ltd. in Melbourne. "The rise of share assets led to paper and property entrepreneurs, rather than creating real wealth."
Wiliam J. Shields, chief economist at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in Sydney, described the underlying problem: "The economy has already hit the wall."
Australia's economy grew 3.3 percent in the 12 months to June 30 of this year, and the Government expects that to slow to 2 percent in the current fiscal year. While the Government maintained a remarkable budget surplus in the last fiscal year, much of that will go to repay its portion of the country's net foreign debt of about $98 billion. Australia also continues to suffer from a widening current-account deficit of $16 billion and an inflation rate of about 7.7 percent.
 
'All a Matter of Risk'
 "There was in 1987 and 1988 a great sense of growth and power, that things could be bought and sold at tremendous values," said Tain P. Tompkins, economic counselor at the United States Embassy in Canberra, the capital. "It's all a matter of risk. If you play with the bull, you may get the horn."
Mr. Bond, a renegade financier whose yacht won the America's Cup in 1983 and who paid about $53 million for van Gogh's painting "The Irises," is in the process of negotiating the sale of his company's breweries to reduce his debts -- a total of more than $4 billion, with substantial portions to foreign banks and bondholders.
On Sept. 26, he resigned as chairman of Bond Holdings, although he still retains a majority of the shares in the Bond Corporation through his private company, Dallhold Investments. After years of aggressively acquiring properties, he has recently had to put some on the block at distress prices.
Kerry Packer, the media billionaire from whom Mr. Bond bought the Channel 9 television network, bought back control of the property for about a fifth of the price. Mr. Packer, who recently suffered a heart attack, is one of the few whose finances have worked out well recently.
 
Government Institutions
 The companies of Mr. Skase and Mr. Connell are facing scrutiny in the wake of their collapses, and even Government institutions are not exempt from difficulties. The Government bailed out the State Bank of Victoria, whose merchant bank arm had accumulated nearly $2 billion in bad debts, and announced its sale to the state's Commonwealth Bank of Australia. But to finance the sale, the Government said it would sell about 30 percent of the Commonwealth Bank to private investors.
The move toward privatization is alarming labor unions, which are worried about the threat to the substantial gains they made during the last few years. Workers' benefits are so hefty that when they take their annual leave they receive not only their full salary, but also a 17 percent bonus to compensate for missed overtime.
The Government has also decided to sell shares in the telecommunications and airlines industries, with the aim of injecting greater competition and efficiency into them.
 
Airlines Privatized
 Australian Airlines will be fully privatized, and Qantas Airlines will sell 49 percent of its equity, with a cap on how much may be sold to foreigners. The Government will also merge its domestic and overseas telecommunications carriers and sell Australian Satellite, or Aussat, to private investors.
While the Government is turning to financial liberalization to help ease its economic difficulties, such measures in the past probably contributed to the problem in some respects. Officials acknowledge that the wave of deregulation, in the mid-1980's, set off a boom in borrowing that is now behind some retrenchment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Bond retains a majority of shares in the Bond Corporation, which reported a loss of $1.8 billion in the year ending in June. (Associated Press, 1987)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (85%); NWS (ASX) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); ASX (ASX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); ASX LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AUSTRALIA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (57%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (56%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



162 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Elite Magazines Compete for a Place at Home

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY

 BODY:
Home is where the heart is, to be sure. But home may also be where the money is these days, as Americans put away their dancing shoes and come back home again.
At least, that is what publishers of the elite home-design magazines are betting on. These sumptuous publications, which are to home decorating what haute couture is to sewing, include Knapp Communication's Architectural Digest, standard-bearer for the category; Conde Nast's HG, known until two years ago as House & Garden; Hearst's House Beautiful, granddaddy of them all at 94 years old; Meredith's Metropolitan Home, and Hachette's stylish newcomer, Elle Decor. 
 As advertising pages continue to decline while the economy deteriorates and with marginal magazines struggling for their lives, the industry is bracing for a shakeout in categories with too many similar magazines. On the theory that a reader might be hard pressed to differentiate between, say, House Beautiful and HG, these magazines would appear to be prime candidates.
 
Hard Cores of Readers
 But media directors and advertisers think differently. They say that despite similar demographics and the same kinds of lavish layouts, each magazine has an individual appeal and its own hard core of readers.
"Certain ads will draw better in one magazine than another," said Michael Dugan, the president of Henredon Furniture Industries. "House Beautiful seems to have carved out an editorial niche that emphasizes the country look. HG has a more urbane, elegant look. Elle Decor is visually terrific and may have appeal to the younger reader. Met Home has a very clear identity and a lot of reader interaction. Architectural Digest is the best magazine we advertise in."
Nonetheless, the home furnishings market is down and many department stores are feeling the pinch.
Cheryl Smith, media director at William B. Johns & Partners, a New York ad agency, described the home furnishing market as "a little bit flat right now," but said advertisers with the most expensive goods were the least affected by the economic slump.
"If you continue advertising and stay visible, you can gain market share," she said. "Recession or not, you have to remain visible."
Recession or not, the magazines are now edited for readers who are scaling back. They are running more service pieces, more articles on how to refurbish existing interiors instead of redecorating from scratch, more features on less-expensive items.
In the first nine months of the year, advertising pages fell 9 percent in House Beautiful and 8 percent in Metropolitan Home, while Architectural Digest posted a 4 percent increase and HG a stunning 10 percent gain. Elle Decor began publication in March so no comparative figures exist, but its publisher, Polly Perkins, said the nine 1990 issues had a total of 468 advertising pages, well above the projected 350 pages.
The circulation leader is House Beautiful, with 932,377 subscribers last year, followed by Metropolitan Home at 701,015, Architectural Digest at 632,302 and HG at 619,920. Ms. Perkins said Elle Decor's circulation, as yet unaudited, was 200,000.
All five magazines have a lustrous quality about them. With their depictions of perfectly appointed rooms, designer furniture, elegant gardens and oh-so-handsome couples presiding over impeccable preserves, the publications present a world that is more fantasy than reality.
 
Ultimate Voyeur Experience
 Architectural Digest, edited by Paige Rense, is considered to be the dominant magazine. Its critics call it pretentious, but with four-color issues of more than 300 pages each and more than 1,800 ad pages last year, it is the ultimate voyeur experience into the houses of the rich and famous.
"A couple of hundred years from now, if you want to get a sense of how affluent America lived in the latter half of the 20th century, you could do no better than a copy of A.D.," said Thomas P. Losee Jr., the publisher.
Or any of its competitors, for that matter. Nine-year-old Metropolitan Home likes to distance itself from the others with its motto, "Journalism, Not Voyeurism," although it, too, runs its share of glamorous homes.
For instance, one article entitled "Why You Can't Buy a Sofa in America" examined why most good furniture is sold "to the trade only" and must be purchased through decorators. The piece also explained how to read the price code that hangs off sofas. As a result of this article, Metropolitan Home was barred from a major furniture show.
 
Bare-Knuckled Competition
 Although the magazines eye each other warily, there has not been the kind of bare-knuckled competition that occurred in the mid-1980's when Conde Nast brought in Anna Wintour, the British editor, to reposition House & Garden. The result confused readers, alienated advertisers and brought a flood of criticism. Under the editorship of Nancy Novogrod, HG has settled down and is back in favor with advertisers.
House Beautiful, which manages to be both elite and mainstream, probably carries the most consumer articles. Tony Hoyt, its publisher, describes the magazine as "very 203," the area code for Fairfield County, Conn., one of the wealthiest suburbs in the United States.
The industry is watching Elle Decor, the latest entrant. Modeled after the hugely successful French magazine Elle Decoration and riding on the name recognition of its sister Elle, the magazine has succeeded in attracting coveted younger readers.
Whatever their individual drawing cards, the magazines are hoping that the 1990's will be the decade of the home. "There are going to be millions and millions of couch potatoes, and you're going to need lots of couches," says Theodore V. Kruckel, Elle Decor's marketing director.

GRAPHIC: Graph: The average paid monthly circulation for home design magazines from '82 to '90 (Source: Audit Bureau of Circulation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: HENREDON FURNITURE INDUSTRIES INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARCHITECTURAL DIGEST (MAGAZINE); HOUSE BEAUTIFUL (MAGAZINE); HG (MAGAZINE); METROPOLITAN HOME (MAGAZINE)

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); MARKET SHARE (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); RETAILERS (63%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



163 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: American Lawyers in Soviet Thicket

BYLINE: By DEBORAH STEAD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
At Baker & McKenzie's office just off Pushkin Square, the phones are modern. But as one of the four lawyers there put it, "They're hooked into the Soviet system, so we're at the mercy of that."
The same might be said of the level of commercial law practiced by American firms here. It is sophisticated, especially by Soviet standards, but eventually it must hook up with the Soviet legal system -- and that connection is not easy.
"The Soviets publish their laws sporadically and with great delay, so you hear about drafts through rumor, through the grapevine," said Mark Vecchio, a 31-year-old Columbia Law School graduate who is with the Moscow branch of New York-based Coudert Brothers. "You have to be in touch constantly." Coudert's clients include Estee Lauder.
 
Clarifying the Law
 Paul Melling, a 33-year-old British lawyer who has headed Chicago-based Baker & McKenzie's office here since it opened last year, says he keeps up with legal changes "mostly through friends who are Soviet lawyers and through reasonably good contacts with the ministries." He also reads the Soviet newspapers Pravda and Izvestia every day. (Like most of the other lawyers at American firms here, he is fluent in Russian and has an interest in Soviet culture.) 
 Clarifying the law, which, the lawyers say, is especially murky on currency and property deals, is a preoccupation for the dozen-or-so lawyers working for the American firms here: Coudert; Baker & McKenzie; Chadbourne & Park of New York, and Steptoe & Johnson of Washington.
Their latest concern is the country's move toward economic and political decentralization, which produced a jumble of new laws and new domains that sometimes clash. "Our office now spends 30 percent of its time on problems of legality and authority," said Richard Dean of Coudert, who has headed the Moscow office since it opened in January 1988, a year after the passage of the joint-venture law that allowed foreign investment in the Soviet Union if a Soviet partner was involved. Foreigners can now invest here without Soviet partners as a result of a decree issued recently by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
For example, Pepsico, which Baker & McKenzie represents, recently had its two Pizza Hut restaurants in Moscow temporarily closed. A newspaper said the outlets were caught in a crossfire between local authorities.
Space Shortage
Beyond the body of law are other challenges. Office space is cramped, and commercial rents are as high as $75 a square foot, more than twice Manhattan rates. Other challenges include an apartment shortage, a dearth of experienced Soviet lawyers and a recent spate of political and economic crises that could make the most stalwart Western client jumpy.
Perhaps the biggest challenge is learning how to negotiate commercial deals in the Soviet Union. Soviet lawyers are gaining business and international experience, and some have even gone through American Bar Association training classes. But they and their clients have long been isolated from the legal traditions of free-market societies.
"The Soviet side sometimes won't get basic stuff, like calling an entity the same thing throughout the contract; they may say, 'Let's vary it; it's getting boring,' " said Robert Langer, a 30-year-old graduate of Tulane Law School who is the American lawyer at Chadbourne, Hedman, Raabe & Union of Soviet Advocates CCCP -- a joint venture of American, Finnish, Austrian and Soviet lawyers.
Sometimes, to the horror of American lawyers, the Soviets will simply bring a sample contract with blank spaces for names, dates and products and suggest that it be used as the legal basis for a joint venture.
Most Soviet lawyers believe there is a "standard way of doing things, that it's not possible to diverge from that standard without causing yourself difficulties," said Alexander Papachristou, a 32-year-old Harvard Law School graduate at Steptoe's joint-venture firm, Lex International. (U S Sprint and Du Pont are two clients from the American side; Lex, the private law firm on the Soviet side of the venture, brings the Bolshoi Ballet, among others.)
Mr. Papachristou and others say the uncharted commercial climate here often makes them act as business strategists for clients, and in this role they come up against other problems.
 
Lack of Understanding
 Confidentiality, for example. "New Soviet businesses don't understand about trade secrets," said Aleksandr Minakov, Mr. Papachristou's Soviet colleague at Lex International. "When we do joint ventures with them, we have to be sure to put in a non-disclosure clause."
Mr. Papachristou and the others seem happy to be here for a number of reasons beyond business. Many of them have studied Russian and Soviet culture since their college days. Some have Soviet roots; a few have Soviet spouses.
"It's not as lucrative as other areas," Mr. Melling said. "But it's a unique time to be living here. You watch the news every night and realize history is being made."
Mr. Langer said he spends evenings with Soviet friends.
"I don't have ESPN though," he said, referring to the American cable television sports network. "If somebody's addicted to ESPN, they shouldn't come here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Practicing Soviet law requires dealing with an unsophisticated system. Coudert Brothers' Moscow office includes, from the left, Daniel Rothstein, Marilyn McHugh, Mark Vecchio, Victoria Litz and Douglas Aden. (Mike Shuster for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (56%); PEP (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAKER & MCKENZIE LLP (92%); CHADBOURNE & PARKE LLP (90%); STEPTOE & JOHNSON LLP (66%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (56%); PEPSICO INC (51%); PIZZA HUT INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; LEGAL PROFESSION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LAWYERS (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); POLITICS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: STEAD, DEBORAH MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



164 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Cuts in Rates Called Vital For Economy

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Credit market analysts say the Federal Reserve will need to be much more aggressive in lowering short-term interest rates to help prevent what looks like the start of a mild recession from turning into a much steeper, more prolonged downturn.
Such aggressiveness would be a significant shift for the Fed, whose chairman, Alan Greenspan, has been extremely cautious in his application of monetary policy. 
 The analysts acknowledge that speedier cuts in interest rates would not be free of risk. Inflation remains a worry, even though prices, particularly in industries that produce goods, are stable or falling. So, too, is the dollar, which could lose even more of its value on foreign exchange markets if rates are pushed down too quickly.
 
Risks Viewed as Minimal
 When measured against what seems to be going on in the economy, however, those risks appear minimal, analysts contend. "There comes a point where economic weakness becomes broad enough and financial difficulties distressing enough where monetary policy has to become more stimulative," said Richard M. Kelly, president of Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a primary dealer in government securities. "In my view, we are at that point."
Last week, the Fed indicated that it had lowered its target on the overnight Federal funds rate by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 7 3/4 percent. Analysts said that another quarter-point reduction was very likely after Fed policy makers meet in Washington on Nov. 13. Such a move could be followed by another reduction in December, they added.
The growing sense that a recession has, in fact, begun intensified last week. Important soundings on how the economy fared in October, especially a very weak employment report, suggested spreading weakness. And reports from Detroit, where the Ford Motor Company and the General Motors Corporation announced plans to close 21 assembly plants and idle more than 50,000 workers, offered no suggestion that November would bring an improvement.
"When the oil-price shock first hit in August, the economy was stunned, and growth flattened out," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. "But in October the economy started to dive. If the Fed wants to make this a short recession, then they will have to lower interest rates dramatically."
To stimulate activity in devastated sectors of the economy, like construction, a full-percentage-point decline in short-term rates would be needed during the next few months, Mr. Yardeni and other economists said.
 
Disposable Incomes Cited
 In addition, "there has to be positive momentum in consumer disposable incomes, which have been hit hard since gasoline and heating oil prices started to rise," said William Melton, a vice president and chief economist at IDS Financial Services Inc. in Minneapolis.
Exports, which have been growing at about a 2 percent pace so far this year, need to continue to rise, Mr. Melton added. And business inventories have to remain lean. "Even with those four conditions, we are still looking at a two-quarter recession," he said. "If some of those factors either don't materialize or disappear, it could be longer than that."
The heightened sense among credit market participants that a recession has begun should help alleviate some anxiety about the Treasury's quarterly refunding auctions this week.
 
Strong Demand Expected
 Since fixed-income investors dote on bad economic news, demand at the auctions should be strong, even though a record $34.25 billion worth of notes and bonds are to be sold from tomorrow through Thursday.
In light of recent declines in Japanese interest rates, demand from Japanese investors at the auctions may be somewhat stronger than earlier in the year, Steven Axilrod, vice chairman of Nikko Securities International, said.
An improvement would be welcome because Japanese investors were huge sellers of Treasury securities in the first half of the year.
Through the first six months, Treasury Department data show that Japanese sold more than $16.7 billion worth of United States Treasury and Government agency debt at an annual rate. Canadian investors were the second-most-active sellers, dropping just over $9 billion worth of Treasury paper at an annual rate in the first half.
 
'Only Game in Town'
 Even if foreign interest does not appear, demand from banks, pension funds and other domestic institutions should be more than sufficient to sell the securities, analysts said.
"We don't need the foreigners so much, because with private credit demand dead in the water, Government borrowing is the only game in town," Mr. Yardeni said.
Aside from the auctions, the week's biggest economic news will probably not appear until Friday, when producer price data for October are expected to be released. After huge increases in August and September, the October figures should provide some welcome news, if only because the large rise in gasoline and oil prices recorded earlier has abated somewhat.
Because of a slowing in the rise of wholesale gasoline prices and an outright drop in producer prices for motor vehicles, the producer price index is expected to show a rise of six-tenths of a percentage point for October, most economists said, well down from the jump of 1.6 percentage points recorded in September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (69%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (65%); IDS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); HEATING OIL (75%); HEATING OIL PRICES (75%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); INVENTORIES (68%); CLOSINGS (62%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



165 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: AIRPORTS PLANNING FOR BIG WINDFALL

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Airports around the country are laying plans to spend an enormous windfall provided by Congress, which a week ago passed a law to let them charge airline passengers a boarding fee to finance expansion and modernization.
Although many of the projects are years off, they are likely to have a major effect on airline travel in the United States. Improvements at the principal New York area airports could reduce runway delays and clear up congestion inside and outside the terminals. 
 An expansion program at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport envisions a 50 percent increase in the number of gates. And officials at Los Angeles International Airport say the extra money might help soundproof nearby buildings to cut down on noise complaints.
The fees can be as high as $3 every time a passenger boards a plane and no more than $12 on a round trip, depending on connections. That will give big airports tens of millions of dollars annually, far more than is currently made available to them in Federal grants, and will give them more control over the money.
 
Effects May Be Slow
 "This will put a lot of juice into the system, which is good for the whole system," said Jay Franke, Chicago's aviation commissioner. Congestion at O'Hare International Airport often causes delays that ripple throughout the nation's airways.
It will be about a year before the fees begin to show up on passengers' tickets, and considerably longer before the passengers begin to notice improvements in on-time service, terminal congestion and competition among airlines that could result in lower fares.
But a sampling of airports shows that plans for using the funds are already well along, and the sudden availability of the money is improving the chances for projects that have long been on the boards, like the airport under construction in Denver. At some places, local officials say, the fees will help finance new airports or expansions. At others, they may make airports more efficient.
Airport operators nationwide have estimated that they will need to spend $50.5 billion in the next five years to keep up with demand by travelers. About half of it would be spent by the 29 largest airports, which handle two-thirds of all passengers. The new fees will provide only a fraction of that amount, and the costs will continue to fall on the airlines, concessionaires and other airport tenants, who pass the costs along to passengers.
 
More Choice in Spending
 What airport officials like most about the newly approved charges, which had been prohibited by Federal law, is that the main decisions about raising and spending the money will now be made by local officials. The Federal Government, for example, prohibits airports from using Federal grants to pay the interest on bonds, but they will be able to use the boarding fees for such purposes if they choose.
Federal officials, who will retain the right to review the expenditures, said their main concern would be to insure that proposals expand capacity and allow additional competition.
"We are not going to allow Taj Mahals to be built," said Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner, using the airline industry's favorite pejorative for projects the airlines consider extravagant. A proposed central airport terminal at Kennedy was canceled earlier this year at the insistence of airlines, which said they could not afford to pay for it.
Mr. Skinner said airports would not have to rely as much on their airline tenants to approve expansion. "They will be able to build new gates without going to an airline on bended knee," he said. Existing Federal airport grants cannot be used to build gates at terminals, but the new boarding fees can be.
 
A Small Sacrifice
 Airports that adopt the fees have to forfeit half the Federal airport grants that would otherwise be given to them automatically, a relatively small sacrifice compared to the amounts available from boarding fees at busy airports. The Federal government will consequently have more money for smaller airports, which are less likely to impose boarding fees.
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport, for example, has recently proposed a 15-year expansion program costing more than $1 billion that will add at least 39 gates to the 80 now in service, and airport officials said the passenger fees will be a critical source of funds. The expansion will probably put an end to the airport's dominance by a single carrier, Trans World Airlines, meaning that people who live near St. Louis would have a wider choice of flights. Presumably, the competition will also mean lower fares.
David Plavin, director of aviation for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns and operates the three main airports in the New York City area, said that all of the airports presumably will impose the boarding fees.
He said new spending is not likely to increase the numbers of flights in and out of the region but rather to reduce runway delays and ease congestion in and outside terminals.
 
Some Restrictions Apply
 Based on current traffic at John F. Kennedy International Airport, Newark International Airport and La Guardia Airport, the Port Authority could receive more than $110 million a year from passengers boarding at the three places. The money could be spent at any of the airports, but not for other purposes, like bridge construction or harbor development.
Earlier this year, the Port Authority had to abandon the plan to spend $1 billion on a new central terminal at Kennedy because the airlines would not agree to increased fees for the project. Mr. Plavin said it is too early to say whether this project might be revived, or whether the authority might choose to make other investments using the boarding fees. The authority's entire capital spending has been under pressure because of the regional economic slump.
According to Mr. Plavin, the authority's five-year plan calls for investing $5 billion at the airports from 1989 to 1993. A new plan is being prepared for submission to the governors of New York and New Jersey.
 
Plans for Los Angeles
 At Los Angeles International Airport, Executive Director Clif Moore said boarding fees might be used to build a light rail line, or trolley, to connect with passenger lines being built by the surrounding communities.
Asked if the Federal Government would approve of such a scheme, Mr. Skinner said that the nation's transportation policy now encourages mixed uses of funds previously earmarked exclusively for mass transit, highway, aviation and other uses.
Mr. Moore said that over 10 years his airport might receive $650 million in boarding fees. Some of the money, he said, would be used to acquire property surrounding the airport, or to soundproof buildings in the area.
He said that the airport's current runways are more than adequate to cover the existing flow of passengers -- 45 milion people now arrive and depart there annually -- but that additional construction would be needed to provide parking, gates and terminal space for future increases.
In the Chicago area, the new money could help decide between competing proposals to build a third airport, either in Indiana or in Illinois.

GRAPHIC: Chart showing new revenue some airports expect, and how they might use it. (source: Airport Operators Council International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (59%); AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS; NYTRAVEL; FINANCES AIRPORTS (95%); AIRLINES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (79%); APPROVALS (78%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (77%); NOISE POLLUTION (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR SAMUEL KNOX 'SAMUEL K' SKINNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



166 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Deficit-Cutting Plan Would Mean $321 Tax Rise for Average Family

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
A new analysis from a research group financed by labor unions says the deficit-reduction bill awaiting President Bush's signature would cost the average family of four $321 a year in additional taxes, with the increases spread almost evenly among the states.
The changes would take an average 0.6 percent of family income, said the report, by Citizens for Tax Justice. Taxpayers in states with the highest incomes would face slightly higher than average increases and those with the lowest average incomes would pay the least in additional taxes, the report said. "Overall," it went on, "the tax hikes are somewhat progressive": they fall most heavily on those most able to pay. 
 The increase would be within a tenth of a percentage point of the national average in every state but Connecticut (0.8 percent) and West Virginia (0.4 percent). The average increase would range from $151 per family in West Virginia to $578 in Connecticut.
 
A Median Increase of $183
 Half the four-member families would see tax increases of less than $183 and half would see increases of more. This median increase differs from the average increase, which is calculated by dividing all new taxes by all taxpaying families.
The bill, which would cut the deficit by nearly $500 billion over the next five years, includes $137 billion in tax increases. There are higher taxes on gasoline, tobacco, alcoholic beverages, airline tickets, telephone service, and expensive cars and other luxuries. In addition, the plan would raise Medicare payroll taxes on people whose wages exceed $51,300 and income taxes on those with incomes generally above the $100,000-a-year range.
Another organization, the one representing state lawmakers, said the deficit-reduction plan would cost the states $16.9 billion over the next five years.
 
'The Easy Way Out'
 "Once again, Congressional and Administration budget negotiators have taken the easy way out by exporting difficult decisions to the states," said the group, the National Conference of State Legislatures, in a statement. "Many states face severe recessionary and no-growth economic conditions. Knowing this, Washington now decides to invade state revenue bases and at the same time tell states they need to find billions of additional dollars."
The biggest portion of the $16.9 billion -- $10.1 billion -- would come from provisions mandating Social Security coverage for all state and local government employees and raising the amount of wages subject to the Medicare tax. Employers, including governments, are to match employee taxes for Social Security and Medicare.
Other costs include $3.6 billion in lost state revenue because of the higher taxes on gasoline, tobacco and alcoholic beverages, and $3.2 billion that the states would have to spend to meet Federal regulations for Medicare and Medicaid services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (57%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (57%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAX INCREASES (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); FUEL TAX (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (60%); MEDICAID (57%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



167 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: News Drivers: A Tainted, Tenacious Union

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
It was born as a union of horse-and-buggy newspaper deliverymen at the turn of the century, a stepchild of the fledgling labor movement and New York's yellow journalism wars. Its story is not a sentimental tract on human rights, but an often unsavory tale of rough, insular workers struggling for their own interests.
Along the way, the drivers' union -- now locked in a crucial, perhaps lethal, battle with The Daily News -- has mounted strikes and slowdowns and tolerated violence and intimidation to prod and sometimes cripple employers in its fight for wages, benefits and job security for members who bundle and truck most of the region's newspapers and magazines. 
 The union's history is tainted with corruption that sent some of its leaders to jail, with father-son nepotism that kept black and Hispanic drivers out of its ranks for decades, and with unswerving self-interest that has sometimes engendered mistrust by fellow unions and, critics say, may even have speeded the death of some ailing newspapers.
 
Change With the Times
 But, its defenders say, it is also a union that has changed with the times, evolving in an era of big trucks and modern technology, and has struggled hard to improve members' working conditions, to rid itself of racially disciminatory practices and to bring security, prosperity and a decent life to thousands of working people.
"This union has always wanted the same thing: a better life for its people and theirfamilies," said Michael J. Alvino, who was elected president of the union last year. "The union has never had sweetheart contracts. It has always written good contracts to protect our members, and they have a good economic base.
"You won't see them in fancy restaurants or out spending $200 a night. But they care about their families and save their money. I know men who never took a vacation so they could send their kids to college. They believe in sacrifice, and they believe in this union."
It was a dispute between a driver and a foreman that triggered the strike of nine unions against The Daily News on Oct. 25. Drivers, who say The News provoked the walkout, have been accused intimidating newsstand dealers and attacking replace ment workers, and The News has been unable to distribute its usual 1.1 million copies each day.
A portrait of the drivers' union -- the unaffiliated, 3,000-member Newspaper and Mail Deliverers Union of New York and Vicinity -- emerged in recent days from an examination of its history and from a series of interviews with Mr. Alvino and other newspaper union leaders, as well as rank-and-file members.
It is a complex picture, often unflattering, of a tough union in a strong union town, of power and struggle over who gets work and how it gets done. It is also a graphic picture of the drivers themselves: a hard-working, blue-collar brotherhood fiercely dedicated to tradition, strict seniority and long-established work rules.
The drivers' union was founded in 1901 by a group of drivers seeking better pay and working conditions in the rough-and-tumble era of yellow journalism in New York, when Joseph Pulitzer's World, William Randolph Hearst's Journal and a dozen other newspapers competed for readers with shrieking headlines and gaudy accounts of sin, sex and violence.
 
Involved in Circulation Wars
 Most of New York's newsapers were then situated on Park Row, and the streets around City Hall resounded with the cries of newshawkers and the clatter of horse-drawn carts hauling the plethora of journals to newsstands, many of which were soapboxes set up on busy corners.
After World War I, as the horse and buggy gave way gradually to motorized trucks, many drivers were quietly enlisted in a shadowy army of thugs assembled to fight the newspaper circulation wars that rocked the city in the 1920's.
On June 26, 1919, The Illustrated Daily News was founded by Joseph Medill Patterson, the co-publisher with Col. Robert R. McCormick of The Chicago Tribune. Max Annenberg, whose family would later become one of the nation's premier names in journalism and diplomacy, was hired as circulation manager for the new paper.
Soon news dealers were being subjected to threats and violence by rival gangs of goons, who demanded that copies of The Illustrated Daily News be put out front to the detriment or exclusion of other papers. By 1924, The Daily News had a circulation of 750,000, the nation's largest, and by 1929 the total was 1.3 million.
 
'Battles Galore'
 "The original Annenbergs were thugs, sent in by The Tribune," said Theodore W. Kheel, a labor lawyer who has long been an adviser to New York's newspaper unions. "They used the drivers' union to intimidate the news dealers.
"There were battles galore. If you didn't put The News up front, you'd have lots of trouble. This is how it was done by the Tribune Company. They are the ones who are now screaming about intimidation of newsstand dealers. They started it all."
During the Depression, when jobs were scarce, the union books were closed to new members to protect the drivers and their families, and the union's rationale of steady work for its own people gave rise to a rule that no one could join unless he was the son of a member. One result was the exclusion of all minorities for decades.
The rule, which allowed outsiders to get union cards only if there were unclaimed openings for sons and then only after a long period of seeking work by "shaping," or appearing at the workplace and taking any extra work that might be available, remained in force until 1947, when the Taft-Hartley Act outlawed many closed-union practices.
 
Forced to Desegregate
 But preference for sons remained common, and a Federal court fight in 1974 finally forced the union to sign a consent decree to desegregate. Though the decree's goal was a 25 percent minority membership, Mr. Alvino said that 31 percent of today's members are black or Hispanic. Nevertheless drivers say that a quarter of the members, including Mr. Alvino, are sons of former members.
Mr. Alvino, who is 54, began selling newspapers from a box on Park Row when he was 11. "My father, Dominick, drove for The World, The World-Telegram, and The Mirror," he recalled. "I got into the union in 1955 by shaping at Rockaway News Supply. I had three brothers. We all shaped to get in the business."
The union has led only two major strikes -- a 17-day walkout in 1942 and another that lasted 19 days in 1958. But it has mounted countless rule-book slowdowns and other job actions, many of them short and often precipitated by what the union saw as management attempts to change work rules illegally.
Among the 10 New York newspaper unions, drivers assumed a pivotal role after 1974 when the printers accepted no-strike, lifetime job guarantees and took a back seat in negotiations. Drivers, with their power to halt deliveries, became the key to publication, and strikes by other unions were made or broken by the drivers' decision to cross or respect picket lines. An 88-day pressmen's strike in 1978 would not have been possible without the support of the drivers.
 
Some Leaders Convicted
 The drivers' union, always fiercely independent, never joined the powerful International Brotherhood of Teamsters and until a few years ago refused even to join the Allied Printing Trades Council, the umbrella group of New York newspaper unions.
In recent decades a dozen leaders of the drivers' union, including Carl Levy, who was president from 1969 to 1976, and Douglas LaChance, the president from 1976 to 1980, were convicted of accepting illegal payoffs to assure labor peace from companies that deliver newspapers.
Opportunities for corruption in the union have always been abundant. A dozen newspapers, 10 independent wholesale distributors and thousands of news dealers are at the mercy of deliveries, and union leaders and drivers have often profited from threats of "losing" bundles or withholding services.
Only about 1,300 drivers, less than a third of the members, deliver major city newspapers -- 400 working at The New York Times, 700 at The News and 200 at The Post. (New York Newsday is delivered by members of the teamsters' union.) Others deliver smaller newspapers or work for a dozen wholesalers, who have contracts to deliver newspapers, magazines and other periodicals.
 
Average Weekly Pay: $875
 According to Mr. Alvino, the average driver today earns about $875 a week, including overtime pay. The scales call for about $800 a week at The Times and The Post and $730 at The News. But many drivers earn much more on long routes that require a great deal of overtime. A few drivers are said to earn up to $100,000 a year.
The ranks of the drivers include a few women, but the union is a virtual male preserve and the work, while well paid, is hard. About 80 percent of those who work for the newspapers drive delivery trucks. The rest work in mail rooms, minding machinery that bundles and labels the stacks of newspapers as they roll off the presses.
To meet night printing and morning delivery schedules, the drivers begin work between 9 P.M. and midnight and work all night. Tasks vary at each of the papers, but a driver usually loads hundreds of 50-pound bundles on his truck and makes several trips of 80 to 120 stops each at news dealers on routes reaching across the city and out to the suburbs.
 
Hard Working Conditions
 Heavy traffic, cold nights, bad weather are the regular companions of drivers, who often work two on a truck. Drivers for The Post collect money from news dealers at each stop daily, while News drivers collect weekly. The Times bills dealers, and the drivers make no collections.
Many say they see their wives and children only in the evening before going to work, or in the early morning before going to bed, or on days off, which are often in midweek and not consecutive.
"They're good men," said Mr. Alvino. "They believe in hot dogs, the American flag and motherhood. It's like this: You drive a truck at 3 A.M. and deliver a couple of hundred bundles to a hundred different dealers. It's raining and the traffic is terrible. You're not going to be soft. The world is not soft. But they're proud of what they do. They love the newspaper business, and they love this union."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the drivers' union at The Daily News referred
incorrectly in some copies to the drivers at Newsday. They are represented by the Graphic Communications International Union, not the Teamsters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Strikers on the picket line shouting at replacement truck drivers as they left The Daily News's printing plant in Kearny, N.J. (Bill Swersey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWSPAPER AND MAIL DELIVERERS UNION; NEW YORK NEWS NEWSPAPER & MAIL DELIVERERS UNION; 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); NEPOTISM; STRIKES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES ; ETHICS RACE & RACISM (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISTORY (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); FAMILY (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); ETHICS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); NEWSSTANDS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); 

PERSON: ALVINO, MICHAEL J; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



168 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
Taxes in Limelight on Eve Of Elections in New Jersey

BYLINE: By PETER KERR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EDISON, N.J., Nov. 4

 BODY:
Candidates for the United States Senate crisscrossed the state today as politicians here wondered how, if at all, the public would express its rage over taxes and uneasiness about the future.
Senator Bill Bradley performed the classic rituals of a statewide Democratic candidate today, visiting a Democratic Party breakfast, an apple farm, a flea market and a Hungarian-American dinner on a day when a new poll showed him holding onto a substantial though somewhat narrowed lead. 
 "We won't vote to raise taxes of middle-income taxpayers to cover the loopholes of the oil and gas industries," Mr. Bradley said this morning at a gathering of Middlesex County Democrats, where he blamed President Bush for the delayed budget resolution in Washington this fall.
 
'The Florio Taxes'
 His opponent, Christine Todd Whitman, dashed though some predominantly Republican areas in the northern and middle sections of the state in the hope of bringing Republicans behind her uphill candidacy. Again she challenged Mr. Bradley to give his position on the $2.8 billion in new and increased taxes proposed this year by the state's Democratic Governor, Jim Florio, and passed by the Legislature.
"How can he fail to recognize that what they want to know about is the Florio taxes," Ms. Whitman said in an interview after a Republican dinner in Union, N.J.
Besides the United States Senate race, there will be elections in the state's 14 Congressional districts, four special legislative races, a host of local contests and a bond issue to provide $135 million for housing for middle- and low-income families and the homeless.
Throughout the fall, Republicans have tried to saddle Democrats with the unpopularity of the Governor's tax package, which has sent his approval ratings to near historic lows in the state. The Republicans are looking in particular for victories in a State Senate race along the Jersey Shore and a Congressional contest in Mr. Florio's district across the river from Philadelphia.
 
A Citizens' Group
 In addition, a citizens' group, Hands Across New Jersey, which was formed in reaction to the Florio tax package, has assailed the bond issue, aimed at providing affordable housing.
But attempts by opponents of the tax package to turn the elections Tuesday into a referendum on state taxes are likely to be muddled somewhat by the fact that Mr. Florio is not on the ballot this year and that most other Democrats have distanced themselves from the Governor. Also, Repubicans say, President Bush's agreement to endorse tax rises in Washington has diminished Republicans' abilities to portray themselves as anti-tax candidates.
Ms. Whitman, a 44-year-old former Somerset County Freeholder and former president of the State Board of Public Utilities, has campaigned in favor of open-space preservation, restrictions on the sale of automatic weapons, a cut in the capital gains tax, and campaign finance reform. But most of all she has pressed Mr. Bradley to take a position on state taxes, something he has rejected as irrelevant to a race for Federal office.
Mr. Bradley, 47, who is running for a third term in the Senate, has stressed his support of environmental and education programs, a program to help care for the elderly in their homes and his hopes of cutting the Pentagon budget over the next five years to increase fundis for domestic spending.
 
Bush Vetoes Criticized
 On the stump today, he placed the blame for the budget deadlock on Republican control of the White House. "You always have a Democratic Congress negotiating with a Republican President," Mr. Bradley said after criticizing Mr. Bush's vetoes of parental-leave and civil rights legislation. "The only answer I can see is in 1992; that we have a Democratic President negotiating with a Democratic Congress."
A poll by the Eagleton Institute at Rutgers University, published in The Newark Star-Ledger today, found Mr. Bradley leading Ms. Whitman by 50 percent to 33 percent, with 17 percent undecided. The poll of 1,000 likely voters, conducted between Oct. 27 and 31, showed a gain by Ms. Whitman, who had trailed Mr. Bradley by 36 percent in an Eagleton poll released one week earlier. The earlier poll had also found the public's greatest concerns centered on the economy and taxes. The most recent poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.2 percentage points.
"This poll shows what I have thought all along," Ms. Whitman said during a brief interview, "that I have the momentum."
The one politician who is running in support of the Florio tax increases is Assemblyman Edward H. Salmon, who is running in a special election for the State Senate in the First Legislative District along the southern Jersey Shore. His campaign has received hundreds of thousands of dollars in support from the Democratic State Committee and has advertised on Philadelphia television stations.
Mr. Salmon has tried to explain the increases in state taxes in 8,000 videocassettes distributed by hand to homes in the district. Mr. Salmon is opposed by James Cafiero, a Republican who was appointed to the Senate seat earlier this year.
Incumbents are expected to win re-election 12 Congressional districts, but the races have turned bitter and hard fought for the state's two open Congressional seats.
 
Unexpected Help
 In the First Congressional District, Robert Andrews, a Democrat and former director of the Camden County Board of Freeholders, is running against Daniel Mangini, who has received unexpected help from the Republican National Committee in the hope of gaining a seat in the district where, until last year, Mr. Florio was the Congressman and the area's most popular political figure.
In the 12th Congressional District, the Democrat, Marguerite Chandler, a Somerville businesswoman, and the Republican, State Senator Richard Zimmer of Flemington, are waging a harsh, negative campaign to succeed Representative Jim Courter, who is retiring after a decade in Congress.
A coalition of religious, business and citizen groups has urged public support for the bond issue that would provide grants and loans to middle-, moderate- and low-income families for downpayment and closing costs for their first homes. It would also provide housing aid to the homeless. The measure has been opposed by Hands Across New Jersey, which argues that government would administer the funds poorly.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Bill Bradley campaigning for re-election yesterday at a Democratic breakfast in Edison, N.J. Christine Todd Whitman, his Republican opponent, visited the Paramount Dance Center in Roselle Park. (Photographs by John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF PUBLIC UTILITIES OF KANSAS CITY (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); FAMILY (70%); TRENDS (69%); BONDS (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POLLS & SURVEYS (57%); 

PERSON: BRADLEY, BILL (SEN); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); KERR, PETER GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



169 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
In Fiery, Debate, Low-Key Cuomo Let His 3 Opponents Slug It Out

BYLINE: By FRANK LYNN

 BODY:
In one of the most raucous debates in many years, three opponents of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo -- all Republicans -- spent as much or more time attacking each other as they did the Democratic incumbent and heavy favorite in tomorrow's election.
At times, the three became so vitriolic toward each another that Mr. Cuomo sat back, kept unusually silent and enjoyed the acerbic repartee among his opponents. At one point, he recoiled in mock horror as Herbert I. London, the Conservative Party candidate for governor, pointed a finger across Mr. Cuomo at Pierre A. Rinfret, the Republican candidate. 
 "I was trying very much not to laugh," the Governor said later in a hallway outside a studio at WNBC. The studio audience of journalists and politicians was not as successful in stifling laughter. The host, Gabe Pressman, was forced at times to be more like a lion tamer than a moderator.
The hourlong debate capsulized what many politicians say the campaign has been -- considerable heat and not too much light. The well-financed incumbent is considered an unassailable favorite. Two of his opponents, Mr. London and Mr. Rinfret, are competing hard for second place and the third, Louis P. Wein, the Right to Life candidate, is looking for third place.
 
'I'm Not Your Dear Friend'

 The tone was illustrated when Mr. Wein, as is the custom of candidates even when they are attacking each other, called Mr. Rinfret "my dear friend." Mr. Rinfret exploded: "I'm not your dear friend. I think this is the third time I've met you. I don't even remember your first name."
Mr. London, using Mr. Rinfret's Board of Elections registration card as a prop, declared that Mr. Rinfret had not voted for the last four years and re-registered as a Republican only after his nomination.
Mr. Wein said that Mr. Rinfret "is not fit for public life." Mr. Rinfret in turn called his Republican-Conservative running mate, State Comptroller Edward V. Regan, "a disgrace" and "incompetent" in certifying the current state budget as balanced.
Mr. Rinfret has endorsed the Democratic-Liberal candidate for Comptroller, Carol Bellamy, even though he referred to her as "that idiot woman" a few weeks ago.Mr. London said the Rinfret endorsement proved that he was a liberal like Mr. Cuomo.
 
Lumping Them Together
 A stunned Ms. Bellamy was silent on the endorsement. Her media consultant, Hank Morris, said that "it has to be deciphered by someone with a psychology degree." Maureen R. Connelly, Mr. Regan's media consultant, referred to the endorsement as being "inflicted" on Ms. Bellamy.
During the debate, the three Republican candidates for governor, whom Mr. Cuomo kept lumping together as conservatives, were most in tandem in attacking Mr. Cuomo's handling of state finances.
Mr. London said he state was on the verge of bankruptcy. Mr. Rinfret declared that New York had "the highest per capita taxes" in the country and that the state faced a deficit of up to $2 billion in the fiscal year ending on March 31 and $5 billion in the next year.
Mr. Cuomo, adopting the stance of a professor dealing with unruly and uninformed students, buried them in statistics that they could not disprove. He said that 33 other states were in fiscal trouble, that the state's deficit was less than 2 percent of its budget compared with 18 percent for the United States and that he had no regrets for spending more on education, prisons, mental health and other programs.
 
'The Limit on Taxes'
 He blamed the national recession and the conflict in the Persian Gulf for the state's fiscal problems, but did not mention that the troubles date back at least three years.
Mr. Cuomo promised no more taxes this year but stopped short of a promise for next year. "We think we have come to the limit on taxes in this state," he said.
Mr. London took most of the heat on an abortion question because he had earlier called for criminal sanctions against women who had abortions. He recently acknowledged that his wife, Vicki, had an abortion 13 years ago.
In the debate, he retreated to civil penalties for a woman having an abortion and criminal charges against the person who performed it. Mr. Wein said flatly that "abortion is murder" while Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Rinfret favored women's rights to abortion.
 
A Clear Correlation
 Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Rinfret questioned the legality of any bill that would require parental consent for an abortion. "I hate to say this but I agree with Mario on this," Mr. Rinfret said.
Mr. Cuomo, reacting to a question on a computerized New York Times study that showed a clear correlation between state contractors and Cuomo campaign donors, declined to return any such funds. He questioned whether any other New York politician would follow his lead on limiting campaign contributions. And he noted that they had not done so in releasing income tax returns for several years, or pledging to return to the state part of their salaries, as he has done.
Mr. Rinfret had promised to match Mr. Cuomo's release of eight years of tax returns but has disclosed only the last year's returns.
The candidates, with the exception of Mr. Cuomo, spent so much time attacking one another that the debate covered only three broad topics, the budget, abortion and campaign finances.
The Governor, who has often criticized debates, said at one point: "They're a joke. I've said that over and over and if ever the population needed proof of how stupid they are, listen to this one."
Mr. Rinfret interrupted him to say "Mario set the rules." Later, Mr. Rinfret who objected to the Sunday afternoon timing of the event said that it was "the ultimate insult to the intelligent people of New York."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Candidates for governor of New York during their debate yesterday. From left: Herbert I. London, Conservative; Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, Democrat; Pierre A. Rinfret, Republican, and Louis P. Wein, Right to Life. "I was trying very hard not to laugh," said Mr. Cuomo. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); DEBATING; TELEVISION POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); 

PERSON: RINFRET, PIERRE A; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); WEIN, LOUIS P; LONDON, HERBERT; LYNN, FRANK MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



170 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Chemical Industry Faces Oversupply

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
CHEMICAL manufacturers illustrate a troublesome shortcoming of free markets. For three years, they have been expanding operations, even as they worried that their new plants would produce much more than anyone wanted to buy. And, as these plants come on line, their fears are coming true. Chemicals used in the manufacture of hundreds of household items are once again in oversupply.
That hurts. Consumers might soon get a price break on things like drugs, soap, paint and plastic zipper bags, but profits are down at companies like Dow Chemical, Union Carbide and Monsanto, and some new plants are not being opened on schedule. Dow, for example, had planned to open a huge ethylene plant in Freeport, Tex., in 1992 but will wait until 1993. By then, Dow hopes, the demand for ethylene might again exceed the supply. 
 The chemical industry is not alone in going through cycles of abundance and shortage. Similar cycles also afflict steel, paper and other bulk commodities -- and many are entering an oversupply phase today. But chemicals seem to get hit the hardest, perhaps because the industry is so huge and so basic to the rest of manufacturing.
Half a decade might pass before the demand for chemicals catches up again with the supply. This time around, the weakness in the American economy will almost certainly prolong the process. But the main problem is not the economy; it is that alternating periods of too little production capacity and then too much come in cycles that no one seems to be able to control.
Peter Spitz, chairman of Chem Systems, an industry consulting firm, explains why. "Imagine it is 1988," he said. "Demand is rising, chemicalplants are operating at full capacity and people are making lots of money. You are a chief executive of a chemical company and you say, 'My God, someone has to build another plant, and it is very profitable.'
"So you announce a new plant, and one new one is probably okay. But your competitor says, 'I'm not going to let him get ahead of me and steal market share.' So he announces a new plant. And then a third announces. And if you put all these guys in a room, they seem like a crazy industry. But each one has a rationale."
The emerging oversupply, as new plants come on line in the early 1990's, is greatest at the petrochemical end of the industry. Such basic materials as ethylene and propylene are made in huge quantities and then used to produce specialty chemicals like drugs, fertilizers or plastics. Petrochemicals get hit the hardest because the manufacturing process requires high-output plants to keep down production costs.
The new Dow plant in Texas, for example, will produce 1.5 billion pounds of ethylene a year, a quantity equal to nearly 4 percent of current ethylene consumption in the United States, which is 39 billion pounds a year. Put another way, the Dow plant, if it were operating today, would produce enough ethylene to cover, by itself, the 3 percent growth in ethylene sales nationwide that is expected this year. And Freeport is not the only new ethylene plant. Some nine billion pounds of production are being added over the next five years, said John Lillich, Dow's director of investor relations.
The chemical industry also indulged in rapid expansion in the 1970's, resulting in a huge oversupply through much of the 1980's. Operations were closed wholesale and some companies, like Monsanto, switched from commodity petrochemicals to production of specialty items, like fertilizers and synthetic fibers.
By all accounts, the 1980's crisis frightened the chemical industry, and in the current expansion cycle many efforts are being made to keep growth under control. While Dow and other companies have delayed plant openings, Amoco Petroleum, Oxy Petrochemicals and others have simply canceled plans to build plants. "There was an element of poker playing in the plant announcements," said Peter Coombes, editor of Chemical Week. "They frightened each other into not building."
But subduing the chemical industry's expansion cycle might not be easy. Sales are still sufficient to keep plants operating at 80 percent to 90 percent of capacity, well ahead of the nightmare levels of the early 1980's. Big chunks of this production are exported, however, thanks to the weak dollar. And new plants opening in East Asia, Latin America and Europe might soon shrink exports.
The Mideast crisis has also thrown a monkey wrench into the industry. Many petrochemicals are made from petroleum and rising oil prices are forcing the industry to seek price increases for their chemicals -- not an easy task in a weak economy and a period of oversupply.
Perhaps more frustrating, petrochemical exports from Kuwait, particularly naphtha going to Japan, have been cut off. So the Japanese are shopping in the United States, competing with Monsanto, for example, for the naphtha that Monsanto buys to make synthetic fibers.
The upshot is temporary shortages and rising naphtha prices, just when new supplies should be bringing down the price, said R. G. Potter, president of Monsanto Chemical. "Basically, the Mideast crisis is overwhelming the overcapacity issue," he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (90%); DOW (NYSE) (90%); DOW (LSE) (90%); 4850 (TSE) (90%); MON (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (90%); MONSANTO CO (57%); 

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS; PRODUCTION CHEMICALS (97%); CHEMICALS MFG (96%); ETHYLENE (90%); CHEMICALS TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ALIPHATICS (90%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (79%); PETROCHEMICALS (79%); PROPYLENE (79%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BASIC CHEMICALS MFG (78%); PLASTICS (76%); FERTILIZERS (74%); MARKET SHARE (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



171 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Few Buffers To a Slump Are Seen

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The nation's economic slump could be deeper and last longer than previous recessions, some bankers and economists are warning, because many of the conditions that normally soften a recession or lead to a recovery will be lacking this time.
For one thing, they say, the nation's banks are so weakened by rising losses on loans, particularly for commercial real estate, that they will be less able to make the new loans the economy needs to pull out of a recession. 
 The end of the real estate boom of the 1980's, which many blame for the onset of the slump, may also delay a recovery. A glut of unfilled buildings on the market in many areas is expected to put off for several years the kind of revival in the construction industry that usually helps turn the economy around.
 
A Recession 'Not Like Others'
 "Because of the excesses in the real estate market and the horrendously weakened financial system, this recession is not like others," said Lawrence Chimerine, senior adviser to Data Resources Inc., an economic advisory firm in Brookline, Mass. "It does not look like a mild or brief downturn."
What is more, the increase in Government spending that normally occurs in recessions will not come if Congress and the President adhere to plans to reduce the Federal budget deficit from the $220 billion for the fiscal year that just ended. The economy would thus be deprived of a stimulus that usually reduces the severity of downturns.
 
Pointing to the Signs
 Certainly, some economists do not see a recession ahead, but many others have concluded that one is inevitable, if it has not already begun. They point to the loss of more than 292,000 jobs in the last four months and steep declines in construction activity and consumer confidence. The increase in fuel prices since Iraq invaded Kuwait is the latest blow to an economy that was already suffering from cuts in bank lending, they say.
The nation's banks, having rapidly increased commercial real estate loans in the last half of the 1980's, are hurting from defaults by developers of the unfilled hotels, shopping centers and office buildings that dot skylines from Boston to Los Angeles.
With as much as 20 percent of the commercial real estate loans of some banks in or near default, bankers are cutting lending for construction and curtailing other kinds of loans to conserve the capital they have available to absorb future losses. Bank profits, which must grow if banks are to increase their lending, fell 34 percent in 1989 from 1988, and have fallen 21 percent in the first half of 1990 from a year earlier.
If the slowdown becomes a recession, as is widely predicted, history shows that loan losses at banks could double from pre-recession levels. Much of the increase could come from the $515 billion in bank loans to businesses, which now account for about a quarter of all bank lending but half of all delinquent loans.
 
Rise in Delinquent Loans
 Bank loans to highly indebted companies, often issued to help finance corporate takeovers, grew rapidly in the late 1980's and are beginning to show rising losses. According to Oppenheimer & Company, a New York securities firm, about 5.8 percent of such loans held by 13 large banks were delinquent or in serious trouble as of June 30, up from 3.2 percent at the end of 1989. Analysts warn that losses on such loans could rise substantially if falling sales make it harder for companies to repay their loans.
Pension funds, insurance companies and wealthy individuals are feeling the effects of falling real estate prices, and are also looking for ways to conserve cash and cut lending.
Mr. Chimerine of Data Resources said a sharp increase in construction activity, which normally spurs a recovery, may be absent for several years because of the glut of vacant buildings and the unwillingness of banks to make such loans.
 
Warning on Spending
 As the downturn in real estate prices spreads from commercial projects to a growing number of the country's 63 million owner-occupied homes, analysts warn of the risk that consumer spending could drop sharply, worsening the recession. "As home prices fall, I expect to see people spending less because of the loss of wealth they have suffered," said George Salem, a banking analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities.
He said the turnaround in consumer psychology could be especially abrupt in California, where the prices of many homes, which had doubled in four years, have fallen 10 to 20 percent in recent months.
A shock to consumers in California, which accounts for an eighth of the national economy, could make the next recession the most severe since the Depression, he said.
But Robert B. Avery, an assistant professor and specialist in consumer finances at Cornell University, said falling home prices might discourage some people from selling, "but are not likely to have much effect on spending patterns of people who do not sell their home." He noted that consumer spending could be reduced by other factors, like the rising unemployment that often occurs in regions where home prices have weakened.
While bankers have not suffered big losses on mortgages for single-family homes, they expect that losses on delinquent commercial real estate loans will continue to rise. In hard-hit states like Massachusetts and New Jersey, delinquent loans on commercial real estate have increased sevenfold or more since 1986.
"We do not expect the economy to grow rapidly enough to quickly absorb the real estate that is overhanging the market," said Ernest B. Smith, executive vice president at the Philadelphia National Bank.
 
Less Need for Buildings
 Mr. Smith said that unlike real estate problems in the mid-1970's, another time when banks were badly hurt by real estate loans, today's troubles will probably not be eliminated by a sustained rise of inflation. Rising inflation in the late 1970's made it easier for borrowers to pay off debts and encouraged purchases of real estate, which was seen as an investment whose value would keep pace with inflation.
The need for more buildings in the 1990's will be reduced by changing demographics, he said. He cited less growth in the work force now that the postwar baby boom generation has been fully absorbed and women are taking jobs in offices and factories at a slower rate.
"This is not a normal real estate cycle," said Thomas Labrecque, chairman of the Chase Manhattan Corporation, a big lender for real estate projects. He said it could take five to seven years to absorb the oversupply of new buildings in some parts of New Jersey and Connecticut.
Potential buyers are more willing to hold out for rock-bottom prices, he noted, because they know that many properties are still awaiting sale by the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal agency handling the growing number of failed savings and loan institutions.
All told, "with falling home prices, rising unemployment and increases in taxes, the worries of the average family have to be greater than anytime in the post-World War II period," said Mr. Chimerine of Data Resources.
 
Delayed Repercussions of Debt
 For many economists, the burden of debt as the economy weakens is an an opportunity to say "I told you so." Their dire predictions about the danger of excessive borrowing by the Government, businesses and consumers sounded hollow as the long-lived economic expansion defied several earlier forecasts of recession. But as signs of a slump mount, the delayed repercussions of earlier borrowing are becoming clearer.
When borrowing was rising, the economy benefited from the extra purchasing power of businesses and consumers who could spend immediately and take years or decades to repay. But when the pace of new borrowing falls, the economy suffers as less is spent. Even more alarming, when lenders demand repayment instead of renewing loans, money that would have been available for spending is diverted to repaying debts.
Henry Kaufman, who left Salomon Brothers, where he was chief economist, in a disagreement with the firm's decision to participate in the market for high-yield "junk bonds," has warned that the weakness of banks is a serious obstacle to a quick recovery from the recession that he thinks is beginning. "In previous recessions, financial institutions were more vibrant and had the capacity to be aggressive lenders and investors and help the economy recover," he said.
Currently, however, the number of bad loans held by banks "is making them more conservative lenders and investors," along with other institutions like pension funds and insurance companies. The greatest threat to junk bonds and loans made to finance corporate takeovers is still to come, Mr. Kaufman said.
Not all economists are convinced that the cuts in bank lending and problems in real estate markets will lead to a deeper recession than would otherwise be expected.
Anthony J. Vignola, chief economist at Kidder, Peabody & Company, the New York securities firm, said forecasts for a relatively mild recession "are still very viable, because the Federal Reserve has already started easing monetary policy and businesses are better prepared for this downturn because they could see it coming a long time ago."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); RETAILERS (62%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



172 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 The economic slump may be deeper and last longer than previous recessions, some economists and bankers warn. Banking and real estate troubles will work against a recovery. [Page D1.]
Bond market analysts say the Fed must be aggressive in cutting short-term interest rates to help prevent what looks like a mild recession from turning into a steeper, prolonged downturn. [D1.]
Accounting firms are hurting so much that they are offering bargains, thinning their ranks and searching for innovative ways to bring in revenue, like KPMG Peat Marwick's offer to rent out conference rooms in New York and Chicago. [D1.]
Airports are planning to use a windfall from a new boarding fee to pay for expansion and modernization projects. [A14.]
A new analysis from a research group financed by labor unions says the Federal deficit-cutting plan would cost the average family of four $321 a year in additional taxes. [A18.]
 
THE MEDIA BUSINESS
The television ratings race this year is the closest ever. The poor showings are strong evidence that the erosion of the networks' audience is continuing. At the same time, the industry has to contend with drastically weaker advertising. Television. [D1.]
Daily News executives said the strike against the newspaper was precipitated by an internal dispute in the drivers' union. [B4.] The Deliverers Union is a tough, independent union. [B1.]
Home-design magazines are betting that Americans will be staying home more and will be drawn to high-fashion decorating. But these publications may have to ride out a shakeout. [D9.]
Several prominent jobs in book publishing have recently gone to foreign-born executives, like Harold Evans, a native of Britain who is the new president and publisher of Random House. [D9.]
Some business publications are struggling. Last week, the owners of Business Month said the magazine would be closed, and Business Week announced that it would lay off 10 or its 250 staff members and close two news bureaus. [D9.]
A Boston-based ad agency seems to have scored a rare success in establishing an office on Madison Avenue. Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos's New York branch now has billings of about $60 million. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D10.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
A ban on American meat in Europe is complicating tense talks on farm trade. The European Community is being asked to dismantle its system for protecting local farmers. [D1.]
U.S. law firms are hampered in their Moscow operations by the cumbersome, murky legal system in the Soviet Union. Even the move toward decentralization has complicated matters by creating a jumble of new laws and jurisdictional problems. [D1.]
Australia is turning to its entrepreneurs for help in bailing out faltering state companies and banks. But the country's private enterprises are in a financial squeeze themselves. [D8.]
A group of Soviet free-market economists warned that Mikhail S. Gorbachev's compromise economic program was pointing the country toward hyperinflation and economic paralysis. [A8.]
 
 COMPANIES
Investors sued Laventhol & Horwath for $15 million, accusing the firm of failing to alert their partnership to potential problems in its purchase of the Arizona Biltmore hotel in 1984. [D2.]
 
 TODAY'S COLUMNS
Chemical makers are watching their fear of oversupply come true. For three years, they have expanded operations, even though they worried that the new plants would produce more than anyone would want to buy. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
Big oil's recent prosperity is likely to swell in the next few quarters unless there is war in the Middle East. Fighting would send crude prices above $60 a barrel but would hurt refining, marketing and petrochemical operations. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: KPMG LLP (71%); HILL HOLLIDAY (52%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY; GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEAT; AGRICULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US); CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RECESSION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BONDS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); LAWYERS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); PUBLISHING (72%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); AIRPORT OPERATION (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); BOOK PUBLISHING (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (64%); INTEREST RATES (57%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H HAROLD MATTHEW EVANS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



173 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: Racial Politics in South's Contests: Hot Wind of Hate or a Last Gasp?

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Like a virus that defies eradication, the politics of race is back in full view in Southern election campaigns.
First came the surprisingly strong Senate bid by the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke, who is now a State Representative in Louisiana. Since then race has become the focus of Senator Jesse Helms's furious counterattack against his Democratic opponent, Harvey Gantt, in North Carolina, and it has also played a role in the re-election campaign of Alabama's Governor, Guy Hunt, a Republican. 
 In the North Carolina race, Mr. Helms has brought up several issues tied to race, including his allegation that Mr. Gantt favors quotas that would benefit blacks. One Helms advertisement shows the hands of a white person crumbling a rejection letter. "You needed that job," the announcer says. "And you were the best qualified. But they had to give it to a minority because of a racial quota. Is that really fair?"
In Alabama, Mr. Hunt has run commercials showing his opponent with black political figures.
 
Appealing to White Resentment
 Some professors and political experts say that what is happening now is more the last gasp of Old South politics than a broader resurgence. They add that the growing influence of blacks in politics will limit the appeal of explicitly divisive racial politics that depend on a landslide of white votes.
But most experts agree that the slumping economy, white resentment over issues like affirmative action and a sour mood in the electorate are contributing to a revival of racial politics, whose future course remains unclear.
"Voters turn out when they're angry," said Bill Barnard, a historian at the University of Alabama who is an expert on Southern politics. "One of the ways to get them angry in the absence of overriding political and economic issues is to appeal to the underlying cultural and social tensions such as race."
Race cuts various ways, and can be used by black candidates as well. Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. of Washington, in his campaign for City Council, has lashed out at his prosecution on drug charges, saying it was being racially motivated.
 
National Implications
 And some experts say the issues playing out in the South, particularly those involving affirmative action and allegations of racial quotas, have national implications.
"I think Duke's issues will play in places like Michigan, Pennsylvania, Ohio, anywhere the economy is in a downturn and people are looking for some relief," said James J. Brady, chairman of the Louisiana Democratic Party. "It's like dangling the dadgum meat before the wolves."
But the most dramatic racial politics have come in the South.
Mr. Duke startled political analysts by getting 44 percent of the vote and almost 60 percent of the white vote in Louisiana in a primary campaign that appealed to white resentment. Mr. Duke's status as a fringe candidate, the unusual withdrawal of the designated Republican candidate from the race and the economic distress in Louisiana raised questions about how much the contest reflected broader issues.
But race has become a major issue in tight re-election campaigns by Mr. Helms, who is seeking a fourth Senate term in North Carolina, and Mr. Hunt, who is running for a second term as Governor in Alabama. Both are conservative Republicans.
Democrats say Mr. Hunt has sent a racial message to arouse his conservative followers in television advertisements. The ads show Mr. Hunt's opponent, Paul Hubbert, with the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Joe Reed, a prominent black education lobbyist and Democratic leader. Republicans say the message is about philosophy, not race.
Mr. Helms has transformed his neck-and-neck battle with Mr. Gantt, who is seeking to become the South's first black Senator since Reconstruction, with a barrage of racially explicit advertisements and campaign speeches. Much of the message differs little from Mr. Duke's campaign theme that blacks are getting preferential treatment at the expense of more qualified whites.
Besides the advertisement accusing Mr. Gantt of favoring racial quotas, Mr. Helms has run an ad attacking Mr. Gantt for capitalizing on his own status as a member of a minority group in the purchase of a television station near Charlotte.
In speeches, he has accented other racial messages, like an accusation that Mr. Gantt is waging his own racial campaign by advertising on black radio stations.
"Everything's a smear campaign" to Mr. Gantt, Mr. Helms told reporters last week. "He just can't take it. Mr. Gantt knows how to dish it out, but he can't take it."
 
Support From G.O.P. Official
 Charles Black, the chief spokesman for the Republican National Committee, denied that Mr. Helms was injecting race into the campaign. He said allegations that Mr. Gantt had improperly profited from the television sale had been a past campaign issue against Mr. Gantt, a former mayor of Charlotte. He said Mr. Helms's contention that Mr. Gantt supported racial quotas by backing the 1990 civil rights bill was a mainstream issue. He noted that President Bush had vetoed the bill, claiming that it would result in racial hiring quotas. Supporters of the bill deny that it would have resulted in quotas and say its purpose was to protect victims of discrimination.
"This was a major issue debated before Congress, with Ted Kennedy leading one side and George Bush leading the other," Mr. Black of the Republican National Committee said.
The tenor of the North Carolina campaign was a topic today on the morning discussion programs.
Ronald H. Brown, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, stepped up his attack on the Republicans over postcards mailed in to predominantly minority Democratic precincts. The cards read, in part, that it is a Federal crime "to knowingly give false information about your name, residence or period of residence to an election official." Democrats assert the mailings were intended to intimidate black voters. Republicans say the mailings were intended to insure that only eligible voters vote.
"What the Republican Party has done is absolutely disgusting," Mr. Brown said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation." "It's a repeat of what they've been doing for the last decade, and that is to try to intimidate the poorest and most vulnerable of voters."
On the NBC News program "Meet the Press," John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, was repeatedly asked whether the White House countenanced Mr. Helms's racial message.
"I think in any campaign a racial message of one kind or another is inappropriate and abhorrent, and I don't think you will find anybody in the Administration supporting any campaign aspect anywhere that has that kind of an overtone," Mr. Sununu said. But the chief of staff said he had not talked to the President about it.
Judge Dickinson Debevoise of Federal District Court in Newark scheduled a hearing for Monday to determine whether the Republican National Committee violated a 1982 court order that bars voter intimidation.
 
Intensity of Racial Tone
 Mr. Helms has often invoked racial issues, like his filibuster against the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. holiday that proved the turning point in his 1984 campaign against then Gov. Jim Hunt.
Still, even many people who have long studied or participated in North Carolina politics say they are stunned by the intensity of the racial tone in Mr. Helms's campaign this year.
"This is the ultimate," said Merle Black, a professor of politics and government at Emory University. "I've never seen it played to this extent by him, and he's been the master of it ever since George Wallace got out of the business."
Al From, director of the Democratic Leadership Council, an organization of elected Democrats trying to move the party more to the political center, said racial appeals had taken on greater appeal to Republicans because their main issues of the past decade, like taxes, crime and anti-Communism, were no longer as potent for the party as before.
"The Republicans have traditionally used social and cultural issues as wedge issues to get the otherwise Democratic working-class and middle-class voters," he said. "As Democrats move to the mainstream, and those issues no longer work for the Republicans, they have to be more blatant about the issue which they really like, which is race."
Mr. Black of the Republican National Committee dismissed Mr. From's comments as "utter nonsense."
"What happens about this time of the election cycle, every time the Democrats think they're going to have a bad year, they start screaming about these red herring type issues," he said.
Others see the appeals by Mr. Helms and Mr. Hunt, both locked in extremely close contests, as efforts to energize their supporters and win back those voters who they fear may stray.
 
'The Politics of Panic'
 "I think it's the politics of panic," said David Sink, a political science professor at the University of Alabama at Birmingham.
Mr. Black of Emory said Mr. Helms's brand of politics did not make enough electoral sense to gain wide currency.
"Politicians know how to count," he said, "and they don't want to start a campaign by throwing away 25 to 30 percent of the voters. You look at Thad Cochran of Mississippi, John Warner, Strom Thurmond -- even Southern Republicans don't play it the way Helms does. He's unique. When he's gone, there won't be anyone to replace him."
Before he was stricken with an inoperable brain tumor, Lee Atwater, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, was criticized for injecting race into the 1988 Presidential campaign, with the use of an advertisement that referred to Willie Horton, a black convicted murderer who raped a white woman while on a weekend furlough through a Massachusetts prison program. But he has also said since then that the party needed to reach out to black voters.
If the political avenues are unclear and the chances of electoral success are uncertain, some officials say, racial politics will probably continue its surge.
"There's a general disquiet about race," said Dave Eisenstadt, a spokesman for the Democratic Leadership Council. "It's the great hidden, unwritten theme about almost all American politics, and I think it's something we'll see for a period of time to come."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A campaign commercial for Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina shows white hands crumpling a rejection letter while an announcer speaks of Harvey Gantt's support for affirmative action. (pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: KU KLUX KLAN KU KLUX KLAN; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SOUTHERN STATES (US); LOUISIANA ; NORTH CAROLINA; ALABAMA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS (IN US) ; RACIAL RELATIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); HISTORY (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; DUKE, DAVID; HELMS, JESSE (SEN); GANTT, HARVEY; HUNT, GUY (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



174 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
Syria is becoming more belligerent toward Iraq, sending an armored division to Saudi Arabia and reaffirming its support for the United States-led alliance, the depth of which has been questioned. Page A1
American troops are getting itchy. They told Secretary of State Baker, who was visiting Saudi Arabia, that they were ready to fight Iraq but wanted to get it over with soon. A10
Combat units from the reserves will be activated in the next few months. The reservists are expected to be among the 100,000 additional troops being sent to the Gulf. A10
Yemen's neutrality toward Iraq is having ramifications on its economy. While there is widespread sympathy for President Hussein, grumbling has already begun. A11
Israel spurns a U.N. call for a Geneva Convention meeting A11
The Communist Party in Albania appears to be losing the grip it has held over the nation for 46 years. There have been reports of mass protests and clashes with the police. A8
Economists warned the Soviet Union in a letter published in a youth newspaper that President Gorbachev'seconomic plan would cause hyperinflation and political paralysis. A8
Youth killed and three hurt in soccer violence near Leipzig A8
Urgent steps to halt global warming are needed regardless of the questions that still exist, scientists at the Second World Climate Conference in Geneva said. A5
Europe's ban on U.S. meat threatens trade talks D1
The conflict in Rwanda will continue, the exiled ruler says. Even though the Government claimed victory over the rebels who invaded from Uganda, the fighting has advanced the cause of the Tutsi, a minority tribe. A7
Prime Minister V. P. Singh of India faces a critical vote of confidence over his handling of a campaign by militant Hindus to build a temple on the site of an Islamic mosque. A6
Haitians fear new election violence now that two sworn enemies representing opposite poles of Haiti's political spectrum have joined the crowd of presidential candidates. A3
Sao Paulo Journal: Alligators invade Brazil's coastal cities A4
 
 National A12-19, B9-10
The fiercest races are for governor this year. From New England to California, the stakes are high, since the winners will shape issues as diverse as taxes and the districts that House members will serve. A1
Silber's unorthodoxy may win him a prominent national role B9
Race is returning to Southern politics -- fueled by white resentment over the growing influence of blacks and over issues like affirmative action and allegations of racial quotas. A1
State ballot measures are increasing, as voters become more frustrated. At least 67 measures are on statewide ballots for Tuesday's elections, the most since 1932. B10
When it comes to elections, politics of money are decisive B10
With politics, local TV stations offer more of less B10
The new immigration legislation, the first major revision of immigration standards in 25 years, underscores the country's need for highly skilled foreign workers. A12 Airports will receive a huge windfall from a new law passed by Congress allowing them to charge airline passengers a boarding fee, and they are planning to use it for expansion and modernization projects. A14
 Washington Talk: A retired Justice reconsiders a case A14
Federal mismanagement of forests costs millions A13
The economic slump could be worse than previous slumps because many of the economic conditions that soften a recession or spark a recovery are lacking, economists warn. D1
The budget pact will cost average family of four $321 A18
Are the mob and the Medellin linked? The conviction of a pizzeria operator in Miami has enabled officials to gather evidence of a long-feared connection between the Sicilian Mafia and the Colombian cocaine ring. A12
Bainbridge Island Journal: An island (as a city) unto itself A12
 
Regional B1-8
Teen-agers are readily buying guns throughout New York City. As the number of weapons and their power increase, youths carry them not only for protection and revenge but for status and glamour. A1
Arrests were made in the rampage on Wards Island on Halloween. Five people from 13 to 23 years old were charged in connection with the murder of a homeless man. A1
Police officer shoots and kills a Bronx woman during dispute B3
Lowell Weicker has tapped the rage many voters have toward the poltical establishment. Win or lose, his third-party candidacy for governor of Connecticut will almost certainly change the state's politics. A1
Taxes remain focus as New Jersey's Senate race winds down B8
The drivers' union at The Daily News has a long history of strikes and violence against its employers. And while tainted with corruption, it has won decent wages, benefits and job security for its members. B1
Publisher says dispute within the unions sparked strike B4
The governor's race in New York, which Governor Cuomo is strongly favored to win, has produced little but apathy. Voter turnout is expected to
 be among the lowest in the history of statewide elections. B6
Adversaries attack Governor Cuomo in raucous debate B7
New York City will make some cuts in services and staff this year, but Dinkins administration officials are strugglng to squeeze the city's bureaucracy to avoid deeper cuts. B1
A memorial for the children who died when a tornado blew in a wall at an elementary school in East Coldenham, N.Y., has stirred a dispute between parents of who those who died and those who survived. B1
Harrison, N.Y., admits converting 5.5 private acres to a dump B2
The faithful are flocking to a church in Queens to see a painting of St. Irene, the patron saint of peace and of the sick, that is said to weep. Many say they have witnessed a miracle. Others are skeptical. B1
 
Business Digest D1
 
SportsMonday
Baseball: Market well stocked C2
Basketball: Ewing can't do it all C8
Even newer Spurs doing well C8
Column: Anderson on 49ers C4
Berkow on the idle C6
Features: On Your Own C7
Question Box C11
Football: Meggett a Giant at heart C1
Jets beat Cowboys C4
Chiefs edge Raiders C3
Bills shut out Browns C3
49ers overcome Packers C4
High-scoring weekend C8
Upsets diminish unbeaten ranks C8
Horse Show: Tulane freshman wins Maclay event C2
Marathon: Wakiihuri and Panfil win C1
Waitz satisfied with performance C5
Spectator support generous C5
Campbell runs like a youngster C6
Fear, food and fatigue C7
Dressing up, dressing cool C7
Treating the aches C7
 
Obituaries
Mary Martin, a favorite leading lady of musical comedy, has died. Known for her performance in "Peter Pan" and for her roles in "South Pacific," and "The Sound of Music," she was 76. A1
 
Arts/Entertainment
Auctioneers are sober before coming sales C13
Town Hall to look at a century C13
Theater: "Buddy: The Buddy Holly Story" C13
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials A20
A modest proposal
Don't isolate black students
Brent Staples: Rabbit
Letters A20
William Safire: Object: Survival A21
Anthony Lewis: Wages of fear A21
V. S. Naipaul: Our universal civilization A21
Bert Lance: Please, not another failed Presidency A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); BRAZIL (92%); HAITI (92%); SYRIA (92%); INDIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); YEMEN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UGANDA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (74%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); POLITICS (88%); RELIGION (85%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); CLIMATOLOGY (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); REFERENDUMS (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); RACE & RACISM (63%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (62%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



175 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
GOVERNORS' RACES, CLOSE AND COSTLY, ARE RICHEST PRIZE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
From New England to California, the fiercest battles of this 1990 election are being fought for governor, as voters pick the men, and perhaps women, who will shape policy on items as diverse as taxes and the political districts that House members will serve for the next decade.
At least a dozen races remain tight in this final weekend before Election Day. Candidates for governor made their final appeals from Liberty City, Miami's impoverished black neighborhood, to Fresno, the booming city amid America's richest agricultural land, the Central Valley of California. 
 The political stakes are so high that, when all the accounts are tallied, more than a quarter of a billion dollars will have been spent in the campaigns for the 36 governors who will be elected this year, said Michelle Davis, executive director of the Republican Governors Association.
 
Crucial Redrawing of Map
 Democrats currently hold 29 governorships to the Republicans' 21.
While the Democrats hope to pick up a few on Tuesday, the real issue is not how many governorships each party will hold but who will win the big states, where the drawing of new political maps could swing 40 seats or more from one party to the other in the House.
Voters will decide whether to turn leadership of two of the nation's three most populous states, California and Texas, over to women.
In California, politicians and poll takers report that Dianne Feinstein, the Democratic candidate, is losing ground to her Republican opponent, Senator Pete Wilson.
But in Texas, the Democrat, Ann Richards, was said to be closing in on Clayton Williams, a businessman who has spent $8 million of his own money in the campaign. Mr. Williams got tangled in yet another controversy on Friday night, this time over his admission that he had paid no Federal income tax in 1986 when the state's economy was in a slump.
 
Tight Races in New England
 In New England, the slumping economy and voter rebellion is dominating elections. The Democratic Governors of Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont chose not even to run again, triggering competitive contests in each state. The situation in Massachusetts is especially surprising since the state in overwhelmingly Democratic; both the Democratic candidate, John R. Silber, and the Republican, William F. Weld, are running against the current Governor, Michael S. Dukakis.
The Republican Governor of a fourth New England state, Edward D. DiPrete of Rhode Island, seems headed for defeat, and the Governor of Maine, John R. McKernan Jr., also a Republican, is in a tough fight against former Democratic Governor, Representative Joseph E. Brennan.
Across the country the issues of taxes, the environment, crime and drugs are shaping these elections, although each election has its own local flavor. Abortion is important in races in some places, like Florida and Oregon.
Both national parties and their political allies are pouring personnel, money and advice into the states. Governmentally, this intense interest reflects the general increase in influence of governors after a decade of authority -- and financial burdens -- shifting from Washington to the states.
"What's interesting is how much more relevant a governor is today versus 1980," said Mark Gearan, director of the Democratic Governors Association. "Right or wrong, Reagan won in terms of federalism. There's so much responsibity being dumped back on the states."
 
A Republican Redoubt
 But the fierceness of these fights is also driven by the fact that governors will play a central role in drawing the nation's political district map after reapportionment next year.
With most state legislatures controlled by Democrats, and likely to remain so after Tuesday, Republicans in particular see the governor's office in many states as their last redoubt in the battle to keep Democrats from drawing Congressional districts that will help maintain their control of the House of Representatives through the 1990's. Democrats have controlled the House since 1955.
That is why much of the attention and money is being focused on states that will be gaining Congressional seats -- California, Florida and Texas -- as well as some that will be losing them -- Illinois, Ohio and Massachusetts.
Beyond the big states, spirited contests are under way in smaller states, including Alabama, Kansas, Maine, Minnesota, Nebraska and Oregon
 
Worries About Turnout
 Republicans on this final weekend were particularly worried about turning out their supporters. While governors' races are in general less affected than Senate and House races by news from Washington, Republicans fear that anger at President Bush this year will discourage Republican voters, who usually include the youngest and least motivated, while firing up some elements of the Democratic Party's base, the elderly and minority members.
Turnout could be an important factor in several races, notably Florida, a state that has increasingly leaned Republican in recent years. Despite that trend, however, Gov. Bob Martinez, a Republican, is in an uphill fight against former Senator Lawton Chiles.
Mr. Martinez, who stressed his support of the death penalty in his final television spots, campaigned along Florida's West Coast this weekend. Mr. Chiles campaigned in Liberty City, the scene of racial disturbances in 1989, and promised voters to "give the governor's office a little color when we get there."
Anger against "business as usual" politics is also a powerful force in several races beyond Florida.
In four races, campaigns that broke away from the established parties may determine who sits in the governor's chair.
In two of these, Connecticut and Alaska, Republicans running as independents could win the governorship outright.
In Oregon, the independent campaign of an abortion opponent, Al Mobley, appears to be siphoning enough support from the Republican, David Frohnmayer, to provide the margin of victory for the Democrat, Barbara Roberts. Both Ms. Roberts and Mr. Frohnmayer support legal access to abortion.
And in Illinois, black politicians in Cook County have broken from the Democratic fold, organized the Harold Washington Party and fielded candidates for local offices. They do not have a candidate for governor, but many blacks are angry at the Democratic nominee, Neil F. Hartigan, for refusing to support the late Mr. Washington in his campaigns for Mayor of Chicago.
Losing even a small part of the black vote in Chicago, the Democratic Party's base in statewide elections, could cost Mr. Hartigan the election against Jim Edgar, the Republican.
The importance of redistricting in these governors' races was illustrated by the situation in California, whose Congressional delegation alone could swing by a dozen seats depending on whether Ms. Feinstein is elected and Democrats thus control the redistricting process again or Senator Wilson wins and gives Republicans a seat at the table.
California's current Congressional delegation, with 27 Democrats and 18 Republicans, is the byproduct of one of the most legendary political map-makings, in which a Democratic Governor and State Legislature in 1981 painstakingly drew lines across bridges, over rivers and down freeways to create as many districts as possible that would elect Democrats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); REAPPORTIONMENT ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); RACE & RACISM (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



176 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTISTS URGING GAS EMISSION CUTS

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GENEVA, Nov. 4

 BODY:
A group of scientists considered experts on world climate called Saturday on all nations to take immediate steps to control global warming, regardless of the many questions that still exist about man-made climate change.
The scientists, at the Second World Climate Conference here, completed their report late Saturday and made it public today. They said in a statement that the technology already exists to make substantial cuts in the emission of harmful gases without jeopardizing economic growth. The cuts and changes they are pressing for are far more drastic than any government is now considering. 
 But the unexpectedly strong statement, a consensus reached by more than 700 scientists and environmental specialists, appears to emphasize differences with the Bush Administration, which has problems with the view that governments should lose no time and set immediate targets for cutting back carbon dioxide.
 
The U.S. Position
 The statement is also expected to leave the United States further isolated diplomatically this week when more than 100 environmental ministers will conclude the conference.
In recent days, most wealthy nations, including the 12 countries of the European Community, have set targets for slowing carbon dioxide coming from cars, homes and factories, and some countries have even pledged to cut back on today's emissions.
The Bush Administration holds that it is still too early to decide how the United States, which is responsible for 24 percent of the world's carbon dioxide emissions, should reduce them, suggesting that to do so risks enormous costs and unduly curtailing its economic growth.
While the United States is not the only country that feels uneasy about assessing how man is tampering with the enormously complex system that makes up the world climate, it is almost the only industrialized nation that opposes committing itself to cutbacks in the present.
This week large oil producers, including the Soviet Union, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, have rallied to the American side. Experts said these nations believe they will lose if the world suddenly starts burning less oil, the main source of carbon dioxide.
 
'Between Science and Policy'
 Scientists involved in drafting the strong 13-page conference statement said the document would serve as the framework for future discussions and would be hard for policymakers to ignore. It carries the stamp of the World Meteorological Organization and the world's Oceanographic Commission and a number of United Nations bodies who sponsored the conference. It was unusual because it was the first official call for political action coming from such a large group of climate scientists, among them a number of Americans.
"We are at an interesting edge between science and policy now," said Maurice la Riviere, a professor of environmental biology and the head of the International Council of Scientific Unions. "We hope governments and policymakers will understand what scientists mean. Where we go from here is up to them, but given what we know, there is absolutely no excuse for governments not to save on energy."
The digression from science to politics in the six-day technical conference also made some scientists and specialists uneasy.
"There is a leap here from science to policy that is not comfortable for some people," said Michael Glantz, a social scientists at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo.
 
Change at an Unseen Pace
 Harmuth Grassl, a German professor of meteorology, said that while "as scientists we are basically here as ruminants, it is very important to get out the main message: That change on earth is now so fast there is no analogy during the last 10,000 years."
For its scientific substance, the conference statement drew heavily on the report released last May by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which is now considered the most important assessment so far of knowledge available on climate change.
The new report issued here today included these points:
*Notwithstanding scientific and economic uncertainties, all countries should take immediate steps to reduce greenhouse gases and find more ways to absorb excess gases already in the atmosphere.
*Without such actions, global warming will increase between 2 and 5 degrees centigrade over the next century, a rate of change unprecedented in the last 10,000 years.
*This warming could lead to a sea level rise between 35 and 65 centimeters in the next century. Although the range is large, it is prudent to take precautions.
*It is now technically feasible and cost-effective to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in all countries. There are enough opportunities for many industrialized countries to cut carbon dioxide by at least 20 percent by the year 2005 if they use energy more efficiently, employ alternative fuels and plant more forests to absorb carbon.
Scientists also said to understand climate it was vital to expand global observation systems and above all establish a network to study the world's oceans. Scientists say the workings of the ocean, the main regulator of the world climate, are poorly understood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE; WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT EMISSIONS (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); METEOROLOGY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SIMONS, MARLISE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



177 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: The 1990 CAMPAIGN;
Whoever Wins, Weicker Race Means Change in Connecticut

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Lowell P. Weicker Jr.'s bid to become Connecticut's first independent governor since the Civil War has fused the anti-incumbent rage that appears in many states with the purely local appeal of a curmudgeon-like politician who seems to have been enraged for years.
Mr. Weicker's critics call it egoistic bluster. But few deny that his third-party candidacy, whether it succeeds or not on Tuesday, will almost certainly change politics in a state where a strong two-party system has been the rule for decades. 
 Even before this race, Mr. Weicker, a three-term Republican United States Senator who was defeated for re-election in 1988 by a Democrat, Joseph I. Lieberman, had forged a larger-than-life reputation as a Senate maverick who would battle any and all who opposed him, including his own party.
But in this year's contest, which has been set against a backdrop of badly decaying cities, a huge state budget deficit and an economy jolted by worse news almost every week about jobs and layoffs, Mr. Weicker has gone head to head for the first time against the party machines that ran Connecticut during his 18 years in the Senate.
The Democratic nominee, Representative Bruce A. Morrison, and the Republican, Representative John G. Rowland, have argued that Mr. Weicker could not rule effectively without a political party organization to help him build a coalition of support in Connecticut's General Assembly.
 
A Health-Care Plan
 Mr. Morrison, in trying to attract traditional working- and middle-class Democrats, has promised to begin a universal health-care system to cover every state resident, and to stimulate business lending by having the state act as a sort of banking partner.
Mr. Rowland has pledged to slash state spending and avoid tax increases next year at all costs. He has also threatened state employees with layoffs unless their unions agree to renegotiate contracts and to have workers pay for part of their health insurance.
Mr. Weicker, the only candidate with a theme song, has said he would infuse state government with nonpoliticians, including academics and business people, and has dismissed the attacks about his lack of a party. It is the two-party system, he argues, that has made the state's problems worse.
Voters are plainly confused.
"Morrison is much too liberal, Rowland is much too conservative and Weicker is basically a windbag," said John Gesmonde, a lawyer in North Branford. But Mr. Gesmonde, a registered Republican, said he believed that Mr. Weicker was also the closest thing to a moderate in the race. On that belief, he intends to vote for Mr. Weicker's independent Connecticut Party.
 
Undecided Voters
 Although Mr. Weicker has led in every independent opinion poll since he entered the race in March, as many as 30 percent or more of the residents questioned last week by various polling organizations are still undecided. In a three-way race in which the winner is not expected to get more than 40 percent of the vote, analysts in all three campaigns said that huge block of undecided voters would probably determine the election.
Poll takers say -- and most Democratic and Republican party officials concede the point -- that even if Mr. Weicker loses, he will probably not finish with any less than 20 percent of the vote. Under state law, that would give Connecticut a third "major party" with all attendant rights and privileges, including a guaranteed ballot position for Connecticut Party candidates in every local and state election until at least the next gubernatorial race in 1994.
The next question is who could lose badly as a result of the rise of what is known as A Connecticut Party. Many Democrats are expressing fears that their party, which has dominated state government for most of the last half century but has trailed badly in almost every poll in this campaign, could be crushed.
In a poll released today by The Hartford Courant, Mr. Morrison was favored by only 10 percent of the 729 respondents who said they were registered and certain to vote, compared with 34 percent for Mr. Weicker, 23 percent for Mr. Rowland, and 34 percent undecided. The poll, made from Oct. 31 through Nov. 2, had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.
Under the state's party regulation laws, a finish of under 20 percent for Mr. Morrison would make Connecticut's largest political party a "minor party." Such a loss would humble the powerful machine built by Gov. William A. O'Neill and his predecessors to the point where new Democratic candidates would have to submit petitions to get their names on the ballot until at least 1994.
"From an image standpoint, it would be catastrophic," said Jonathan Pelto, the political director for the state's Democratic Party. "It would mean that Connecticut is still a two-party state, but that Democrats just aren't one of them."
 
Compounding the Threat
 What has compounded the threat to the Democrats is what Mr. Morrison calls "strategic voting" driven by poll results and the oddities of the three-way contest. The idea behind strategic voting is that unlike an ordinary two-way race, a vote for Candidate A could inadvertently elect Candidate C by taking votes away from Candidate B, who might win.
Mr. Weicker's campaign has that logic. His supporters began calling registered Democrats last week, for instance, telling them that since Mr. Morrison cannot win, voting for him anyway increases the odds of electing Mr. Rowland, a conservative two-term Congressman from Waterbury.
Mr. Weicker, a liberal Republican who depended on Democratic votes in his Senate races, has also gone head to head against Mr. Rowland in a series of recent television commercials that ignore Mr. Morrison, thus furthering the public perception that it is a two-man race.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Weicker, Avice A. Meehan, said today that the telephone calls to Democrats urging them to abandon Mr. Morrison were not being made at the direction of the campaign, although she said she agreed with the message.
In an appeal on Friday for the undecided vote, Mr. Morrison said he believed the "cynical appeal that is involved in telling people not to vote for the person they believe would be the best governor" would offend voters, who would return to the Democratic fold on Election Day and fuel a "come from behind" victory.
Both Mr. Rowland and Mr. Morrison are counting on voters like John and Joan Dobbins of Southington. "He's too much of a maverick; he can't be trusted," Mr. Dobbins said of Mr. Weicker.
"He was never true to the Republican Party," Mrs. Dobbins said. "Now he's calling himself an independent, and I can't believe anything he says."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative John G. Rowland, Republican candidate for governor of Connecticut, signing autographs.; If Lowell P. Weicker Jr., independent candidate for governor, garners 20 percent of the vote, even though he loses, the state would have a third major political party with all attendant rights and privileges. Representative Bruce A. Morrison, the Democratic candidate for governor, campaigning on Saturday in New Haven. (Photographs by John Coleman for The New York Times) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US); ELECTION ISSUES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); TRENDS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); HEALTH CARE (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; WEICKER, LOWELL P JR; MORRISON, BRUCE A (REPR); ROWLAND, JOHN G (REPR) JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



178 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Town Hall To Survey A Century In a Decade

BYLINE: By C. GERALD FRASER

 BODY:
Town Hall, a venerable institution devoted to music and the spoken word, is about to begin a 10-year, decade-by-decade look at the arts and social history of 20th-century New York.
The survey, a series titled Century of Change, is to consist of five programs each year, from now through 1999, devoted to the music, art, literature, politics and technology of each decade. If Town Hall has come to be thought of as a place for musical and literary performances, the series' strong component of social issues harks back to the hall's founding. 
 The programs are scheduled for Monday and Tuesday nights, starting tonight with "The First Decade (1900-09): Immigration, Assimilation, Industrialization, Urbanization," a round-table discussion that is to run from 5 to 8 P.M. Tomorrow night at 8, a concert titled "From Ragtime to Broadway," a sampling of early musicals, is scheduled. "Projecting an Era," featuring screenings of rare early films, is to be presented next Monday at 8 P.M.; "Chamber Music at the Crossroads," a program of music by American composers, is scheduled for Nov. 13 at 8 P.M. The final event planned for this year's series is "Literary Images of an Age," an evening of dramatic readings, on Nov. 19 at 8 P.M.
 
Comparing Turning Points
 The series was conceived by Laura Kaminsky, Town Hall's artistic director. Ms. Kaminsky says she finds striking parallels between New York's past and present. "When you look at the turn-of-the-century New York life, one of the first images that comes to mind is the boats coming in at Ellis Island," she said the other day. "Clearly, that's a critical turning point in American history."
Now, she continued, "in the last decade of the 20th century we are again faced with this huge influx of immigration.
"Different populations from different parts of the world, but there are many comparable issues. A changing work force, issues of language and education -- issues that were so critical 90 years ago are critical again. At that point America was moving into the machine age; this time it's moving into the computer age. What impact does that have on the economy and the shape of life?"
These and other questions will be grist for members of tonight's panel: Ruth Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President; Jack Salzman, of the Center for American Studies at Columbia University; Kenneth Jackson and James Shenton, historians, and John Kuo Wei Tchen, an associate director of the Queens College Asian/ American Center and a co-founder of the Chinatown History Project.
 
Musings Before an Election
 Ms. Kaminsky, a native New Yorker and a composer who joined Town Hall in February 1989, said she viewed the opening program as "really relevant to today's life."
"It is the night before Election Day," she said, "so I think people are very much thinking about the quality of life, the diversity of New York's population and how to make this city work."
Tuesday night's ragtime program, she said, "looks back at history with a new perspective and with a much more open eye."
"I wouldn't say that we're rewriting history," she said, "but we're writing some chapters that are not as well known." Ms. Kaminsky said Richard M. Kassel of the Town Hall staff and Earl McIntyre, a composer and arranger, began work on the program at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture.
"They started researching the lost black theater at the turn of the century," she said. "Everybody always says Broadway owes a debt to ragtime and the black vernacular music. But in fact, that old music is not that well known except for Scott Joplin. So they spent a good deal of time trying to find lost or unknown works by Bob Cole, J. Rosamond Johnson and his brother James Weldon Johnson, and others."
The program also features compositions by George M. Cohan, Victor Herbert, Tom Turpin, Bert Williams, Jelly Roll Morton and Joplin. Performing will be Obba Babatunde, Renee Manning, Howard Pinshasik and Jane Seaman, vocalists; Bernie Leighton, piano; Vinnie Johnson, drums; Billy Butler, banjo and guitar, and Mr. McIntyre, tuba and musical direction.
 
The Film Panel
 The film program, next Monday, is to be moderated by Sybil Del Gaudio, a teacher of film studies and production. Panel members are William Everson, a professor of cinema and the author of "American Silent Film"; Charles Musser, a teacher of film studies and a film historian, and the director Joan Micklin Silver. The program includes excerpts from Ms. Silver's "Hester Street," and early films by D. W. Griffith and Edwin S. Porter.
The chamber music evening features D'Anna Fortunato, mezzo-soprano; Alan Feinberg, pianist, and the Orion String Quartet in works by Amy Beach, Edward MacDowell and Charles Ives, among others.
In her prospectus for Century of Change, Ms. Kaminsky recalls Town Hall's history "as the leading public platform for debate and discussion in the City of New York" and as a leading recital hall with superior acoustic qualities. Town Hall has a history that includes talks by Winston Churchill, William Butler Yeats, Eleanor Roosevelt, Richard Nixon and Margaret Sanger, who was arrested on stage for talking about birth control, and has been the scene of performances by Rachmaninoff, Andres Segovia, Pablo Casals, Jan Peerce, Marian Anderson, Richard Tucker, Duke Ellington and Miles Davis.
 
In the Beginning, Suffragists
 Although the doors opened for the first time in 1921, plans for the hall began taking shape in 1894, when the League for Political Education began raising money for a headquarters for lectures and meetings. The league itself was founded by suffragists working to overturn New York State laws barring women from voting.
The literary program that concludes the first series on Nov. 19 is, Ms. Kaminsky said, a fitting finale to the first chapter in Century of Change. The years 1900-09, she said, were the first decade in which "a very powerful American voice in literature" was heard.
"There was an urban population that was being described through novels and there was the expansion of the country out West," she said. "There were authors such as Willa Cather, who was writing about the immigrants, and Theodore Dreiser, who was writing about the vicissitudes of urban life."
This program, directed by Isaiah Sheffer, will include readings from work by L. Frank Baum, Dreiser, Paul Laurence Dunbar, Jack London, Edith Wharton and Owen Wister. The selections will be read by the actors Paul Hecht, Estelle Parsons, John Rubinstein and Hattie Winston.
Ms. Kaminsky said she is already looking ahead to next season and the next decade in Century of Change, the years 1910-19. "We're thinking for the next decade we might mount a production of Scott Joplin's 'Treemonisha,' " she said. "That is clearly much more costly than a solo singer on stage with a piano. The more money I have, the bigger the production I can give. The budget is a floating budget."
The city-owned radio station, WNYC-FM, will record the music and discussion programs for future broadcast.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Kaminsky, artistic director, conceived the Town Hall series on New York in the 20th century. (Carol Rosegg/Martha Swope Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOWN HALL (NYC)

SUBJECT: CULTURE LITERATURE (90%); HISTORY (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); POLITICS (76%); URBANIZATION (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); 

PERSON: FRASER, C GERALD; KAMINSKY, LAURA ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



179 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: With Ebullience Gone, Auctioneers Are Sober About the Coming Sales

BYLINE: By RITA REIF

 BODY:
The ebullient mood that characterized art sales throughout the 1980's and as recently as last spring has vanished from the auction rooms at Sotheby's and Christie's in New York. Now auctioneers, art dealers and collectors are taking a sober view of the two-week round of sales of postwar, modern and Impressionist art that begins tomorrow night at Sotheby's. 
 The forecast of how well these sales will do is decidedly mixed, although the expectation is that major works by van Gogh, Renoir, Modigliani, Matisse, Willem de Kooning and Robert Rauschenberg will probably sell for the prices estimated by the auction houses, and the more moderately priced artworks may fare less well. Art specialists at Sotheby's and Christie's say that they have scaled back estimates to May 1989 levels, after which prices soared, particularly in the contemporary market. However, a number of art dealers are saying some of the estimates are still too high.
"There is a total lack of electricity in the air," said Allan Stone, a contemporary art dealer in Manhattan. "I haven't gotten a single phone call about the artworks in these postwar art sales. I think it may be tough sledding. The market was flat last spring and it's pretty flat now. The outstanding works in the auctions should do pretty well. But I don't know if the market will absorb all these paintings at $180,000, $200,000 and $250,000. The downturn may be the healthiest thing that could happen to the art market. It will let the air out of the bag and we'll come down to earth again."
David J. Nash, who heads fine art sales at Sotheby's, said the slowdown in the economy in the United States had affected sales of postwar art more than those of Impressionist and modern art. "Contemporary art, by and large, is predominantly an American market," he said. "The demand for Impressionist and modern paintings is more international."
Mr. Nash said he was urging sellers "to be as realistic as possible."
"There have been several warning signals that the market had become less euphoric than it was 12 months ago," he continued. "We have taken these signals into account in giving estimates and tried not to increase the price levels at which works are estimated to be sold. In some cases, these levels represent no increase from 1988."
In spite of the downturn seen in sales over the last six months, the chairman of Christie's International, Lord Carrington, found reason for some optimism about the coming auctions. In an interview last week in New York, he said Christie's sales in New York in September and October were well ahead of a year ago, up more than 35 percent, due in part to sales of items other than art. Quality artworks that are fresh on the market will probably do well, he said.
 
Not as Much Jam
 "The bread and butter are there," Lord Carrington said. "It's the jam we don't know about yet. The jam for Sotheby's and ourselves comes with the Impressionist and contemporary sales. We are not going to starve, but the jam may not be laid on so thick."
At Sotheby's, the larger of the two auction houses, the total for sales in September and October is "significantly down" compared with a year ago, said Diana Phillips, a spokeswoman. She said that "we have had no equivalent this season" of two sales in October 1989 that totaled $184 million.
 At both houses contemporary art sales have been sharply off, with the totals between half and two-thirds of the low estimate. At auctions of modern and Impressionist art, the totals have been close to or within the auction houses' estimates.
 
From Garbo and Ford
 The most important sales in the next two weeks are of Impressionist and modern art and include the collections of Greta Garbo and Henry Ford 2d, both of which are to be auctioned next week at Sotheby's. Miss Garbo's paintings, part of a collection valued at more than $20 million, include three Renoirs -- a portrait of the artist's nephew Edmund, "Gabrielle and Coco Reading" and an intimate study of a woman whispering to a man, "Secret." The Garbo art is to be auctioned on Nov. 13; her French antiques go under the hammer on Nov. 15.
The Henry Ford property -- 35 artworks from his estate and one painting from the Ford family collection -- is to be auctioned next Monday in a sale that is expected to bring $66 million to $85 million. The most important work is Renoir's "Cup of Chocolate" from 1878, a painting Renoir refused to sell for 20 years. Mr. Ford's father, Edsel, bought the work in 1937. Henry Ford's children -- Edsel, Charlotte Ford Downe and Anne Ford Scarborough -- are the sellers of the painting, which Sotheby's estimates will bring $15 million to $18 million.
Among the Ford paintings being sold by his estate is an 1880's Cezanne landscape, "Le Jas de Bouffan," showing property owned by the artist's father. Bought at auction in New York in 1966 for $350,000, it is now estimated to bring $7 million to $9 million. The Ford Modigliani, a 1918 portrait of the American artist Morgan Russell, was auctioned in 1965 in London for $88,000. Sotheby's presale estimate is $8 million to $10 million.
 
2 by van Gogh
 On Nov. 14, Christie's is selling two works by Vincent van Gogh: a drawing of a garden, valued at $5 million to $7 million, and a major still life, "Vase With Daisies and Poppies" from 1890, estimated to bring $12 million to $16 million. Since 1962, the painting has been exhibited at the Albright-Knox Museum in Buffalo, which will receive 65 percent of the proceeds.
Christie's will also auction three works from the collection of Leonard Yaseen, a New York real-estate executive who died a year ago. The Yaseen art, estimated to bring $9.8 million to $13 million, includes a 1949 "drip" painting by Jackson Pollock, which is to be auctioned on Wednesday night. The two other paintings -- Monet's "Waterlilies" from 1920 and Ernst Ludwig Kirchner's 1912 study of lovers -- are to be auctioned on Nov. 14.
None of the works in these sales are expected to bring prices equal to those realized in May when van Gogh's "Portrait of Dr. Gachet" was sold for $82.5 million at Christie's, and Renoir's "At the Moulin de la Galette" brought $78.1 million at Sotheby's. The total estimate for the art to be auctioned at the two houses in the next two weeks is $508 million to $665 million, with Sotheby's sales expected to bring $274 million to $365 million and Christie's $234 million to $300 million. The May series of sales realized $924.7 million.
 
Criticism of Estimates
 Some art dealers were critical of the auction house estimates in the coming sales, especially those for postwar art.
Leo Castelli, the SoHo art dealer, said: "My feeling is the good paintings will bring high prices. However, I was surprised to see that the estimates in the auctions on many other works are pretty high in view of the fact that everyone has been saying the market for reselling postwar art is rather soft."
Larry Gagosian, a Madison Avenue dealer in postwar art, said, "I think some of the auction estimates are still too high -- particularly in the middle range of the market. The problem may be in the artworks estimated to sell for $100,000 to $1 million. What I am afraid of is, if the sales are poor -- and they may be -- that the press will exaggerate the results."
 
A Last-Minute Review
 Auction house estimates, printed in the catalogues, are based on the reserves -- the minimum prices the auction houses and sellers have agreed they will accept. These are not disclosed. Both houses say most of the reserves are below the low estimate; by law in New York they must be below the high estimate. "On major artworks, the reserves are discussed when we write the contract, but they are never set until just before the sale," said Christopher Burge, president of Christie's in New York. "We always ask for a last-minute meeting to actually fine tune the reserve."
Both Sotheby's and Christie's continue to use guarantees to attract desirable property to their sales, guaranteeing the seller an agreed-upon price whether or not the work sells at the auction. The amount of the guarantee is not disclosed. Sotheby's has guaranteed 81 works, valued in all at $80.8 million to $108.3 million and including all the paintings from the Ford estate. Christie's has guaranteed the three paintings from the Yaseen collection.
Both houses report that requests for reserved seats at the sale are as strong as ever. "It's going to be absolutely packed if they all come," Mr. Burge said. "That could be people coming for the blood bath. Who knows?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Renoir's "Secret," from the collection of Greta Garbo, is to be auctioned next week at Sotheby's. (Gray Reisfield)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL SINGAPORE PTE LTD (51%); CHRISTIE'S (INTERNATIONAL) SA (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S

SUBJECT: ART; AUCTIONS ART DEALERS (91%); AUCTIONS (91%); ART COLLECTING (90%); PAINTING (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); INTERVIEWS (62%); 

PERSON: REIF, RITA ROBERT RAUSCHENBERG (57%); WILLEM DE KOONING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



180 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Review/Dance;
On Rising Above Adversity And Then Tasting Its Fruits

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
The Salon Project got off to a rather dryly cerebral start on Thursday at the Dia Center for the Arts (155 Mercer Street), where the three-program series runs through Nov. 16. Devoted to providing rehearsal space and informal but professional performances to choreographers selected by Susan Osberg and Joan Duddy, curators for the event, the series also got off to a difficult start, though professionalism triumphed, when a dancer in one piece and the choreographer-performer of another were unable to appear at the last moment because of illness.
Neta Pulvermacher's "Cintura," a duet to be danced by Ani Udovicki and Keely Garfield, suddenly became a solo for Ms. Udovicki. Set to haunted music by George Crumb, the solo was a nicely meditative showcase for Ms. Udovicki's fluid, lyrical way of moving. Ms. Osberg's "Soliloquy," substituted for a dance by Sarah Skaggs, had an oddly distanced quality but eventually reached the level of intensity and commitment one might expect from the text, a poem by the choreographer that explored woman's nature. The mysterious score, a sort of cantata for small jungle animals, was composed by Joan La Barbara. 
 Gina Gibney's "Calibrations" was a spare and shadowed ritual for two men that made inventive use of vertical and horizontal stage patterns, clipped semaphoric arm gestures and brusque walks and slow half-falls. It was danced with just the right dry economy by J. Hammons and Doug Johnson.
Brenda Daniels has the longest, most stretched arms and legs in New York dance, as well as a memorably amusing punkish pout. But it would be nice to see her do something more with both features than she did in "Three Dumb Love Songs," a suite of brief solos set to the songs "Only You," "They Can't
Take That Away From Me" and "Our Love Is Here to Stay."
The series, presented on Thursdays and Fridays through Nov. 16, will also feature dance by Santa Aloi, Martha Bowers, Sarah Perron, Theresa Reeves, Pat Cremins, Ms. Garfield, Shelley Lee and Amos Pinhasi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; REVIEWS ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); DANCERS (77%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER GEORGE HENRY CRUMB (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



181 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Object: Survival

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In August of 1989, a terrifying explosion ripped apart the Al Qaqaa munitions plant in Iraq. Sound waves carried the fact of the non-nuclear disaster for hundreds of miles, but news of what had happened remained Saddam Hussein's most closely guarded secret.
 Farzad Bazoft, a journalist for a British publication, disguised himself as a medical technician and went to take a look. He was caught, and despite pleas from civilized capitals (Mr. Bush's White House, in its appeasement mode, remained mute) the too-inquisitive reporter was hanged. 
 That sent a message to obsequious U.S. senators and diplomats that Saddam Hussein sure knew how to deal with the press, but his defiance of civilized norms sent a more significant message to the world's intelligence agencies: the Iraqi dictator would go to any length to protect the secret of Al Qaqaa.
There is reason to believe the secret is this: At Al Qaqaa (pronounced with two choking sounds), a material was being produced called HMX, which stands for "high melting point explosive." This was what was accidentally set off.
Dozens of Iraqi and foreign scientists and munitions technicians paid with their lives to determine this fact: Control of detonation required electronic switches and low-inductance, high-voltage capacitors that Iraq did not yet have.
 After frantic repairs to the damaged munitions plant, Iraq was able to recommence production of HMX, along with another exotic explosive called RDX, which stands for "rapid detonation explosive." But it still lacked the sophisticated triggers calibrated to millionths of a second.
In March of this year, American and British agents seized some of these triggers being smuggled to Iraq via London's Heathrow Airport. It is not known for certain if other shipments of capacitors evaded detection, but that possibility cannot be dismissed.
What the seizure at Customs did confirm was that the technology being sought at Al Qaqaa was closely related to the detonation of HMX and RDX. Why is that information so important? Because it tells the world the purpose of the explosive material and the state of the art in Iraq.
The purpose of high-melting-point and rapid-detonation explosives is to implode on uranium-235. If timed correctly, that then sets off a nuclear explosion.
It is safe to assume (more accurately, it is unsafe not to assume) that the Iraqis already have both the explosive and the triggers to set off U-235. Your next question: Do they have the "yellowcake" to make gaseous uranium hexafluoride that can be fed into centrifuges to separate out the U-235?
Beats me. But ever since writing in this space a couple of months ago that 26 centrifuges were to be the first targets of an air strike on Iraq, I have been asked by a variety of scientists, spooks and snoops how I knew that Iraqi nuclear scientists decided on the difficult implosion-device route to admission to the atomic club. Those queries led to the additional information above.
With a quarter-million U.S. and allied troops massed within striking distance of Saddam Hussein, it seems urgent to task our intelligence resources with this mission: How soon will Iraq be able to detonate a "dirty" nuclear device to decimate our forces?
With his Tammuz 1 missile coming along nicely, with its range of 1,200 miles, how soon will Mr. Hussein have unstoppable nuclear delivery potential throughout the Middle East and (through Mauritania, whose leaders he owns) to Paris and London?
That is the clear and present danger the world faces, and that is the information to determine the timing of the strike to prevent nuclear equalization. Our old-book generals who want to wait until next year until we outnumber Iraqis on the ground are allowing Mr. Hussein the time to develop weaponry to inflict horrendous casualties.
How comfortably our editorialists say "let the sanctions work" for a year or two, as if the scientists at Al Qaqaa were not feverishly racing to complete their work. How complacent some diplomats are that Mr. Hussein could be induced to give up the weapon that would give him effective control of the world.
We are not confronting this aggressor to save the oil flow, or to protect allies, or to reassert our leadership, or even primarily to establish the noble principle of collective security that would have averted World War II.
We are dealing here with our own survival. As soon as Iraq gets the bomb and the missile, millions of American lives are in peril. Those are the stakes. And for all we know, it may be two minutes to midnight.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ATOMIC WEAPONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); EXPLOSIVES (89%); CENTRIFUGES (84%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); WRITERS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



182 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: How to Make U.N. Ready for the 21st Century;
Add to Security Council

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In "Bonn and Tokyo as Global Police" (editorial, Oct. 22), you say of Japan and Germany that "it's hard to imagine future collective security and peacekeeping operations without them," and "when will Bonn and Tokyo start carrying their fair share?"
For Germany and Japan to carry their fair share and be fairly and justly represented in security and peacekeeping matters, shouldn't the size of the Security Council of the United Nations be increased from five to seven permanent members so as to include Japan and Germany?
In this respect then, the economic and political power of Germany and Japan would be recognized as more akin to that of the United States, Britain, France, the Soviet Union and China.
 
JACK PERFECT
New York, Oct. 22, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (52%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; GERMANY

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



183 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Golf Ball Specialist

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Up to two years ago, while playing golf, I observed that brand-new golf balls could often be found in the rough just off the fairway" (Steven B. Siepser, letter, Oct. 19). "While playing last spring I noticed that no golf balls were to be found. Why would these same golfers, who once left quantities of balls in the rough, suddenly go into the rough and retrieve those balls? How does this relate to an early recession?" 
 Next to my school is a golf course where I spend as much time as I can during lunch and recess looking for lost golf balls. Usually I find two or three a day. I think Mr. Siepser should think about hiring a sharp-eyed kid like me to help him look for golf balls. Either that or come to Massachusetts, where there still seem to be plenty of lost golf balls around for those who know where to look for them.
 
DAVID HAENDLER
Quincy, Mass,, Oct. 22, 1990
 
The writer, 9 years old, is in the fourth grade at the Charles A. Bernazzani School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF; CHILDREN AND YOUTH GOLF (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



184 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Kenan Erim, Leading Excavator Of Marble Roman City, Dies at 61

BYLINE: By PETER B. FLINT

 BODY:
Dr. Kenan T. Erim, a noted archeologist and professor of classics at New York University, who for 30 years led excavations of the ancient Roman city of Aphrodisias in southwestern Turkey, died on Friday while visiting the British Embassy in Ankara. He was 61 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J.
He died of a heart attack, a family spokesman said. 
 Since 1961, Dr. Erim (pronounced eh-REEM), a native of Turkey, supervised the digging in the all-marble city, which contains a bounty of late Greco-Roman art 100 miles from the Aegean. Aphrodisia had a wealth of marble that was used to build even workers' huts and a two-mile-long city wall, which still stands.
Among the discoveries, Professor Erim wrote in 1972, have been "300 fragments of inscribed stone panels" in the marketplace. The panels list fixed prices, a devalued currency to deter "runaway inflation" and penalties that include death for speculators, who were denounced by Rome as "insatiably greedy men."
 
Hundred of Statues Found
 Highlights of the treasure-trove are a cultural complex with a virtually intact stadium for 40,000 people, a theater seating 10,000, a concert hall, luxurious baths, more than 200 exquisite statues and a great temple that lured pilgrims for the worship of Aphrodite.
Dr. Erim summarized the creative and versatile work by the city's sculptors and other artists, particularly in the first two centuries A.D., in "Aphrodisias: City of Venus Aphrodite," published with many color photographs in 1987 by Facts on File.
R. J. A. Wilson, a lecturer at the University of Dublin, wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Dr. Erim had written not only with passion and devotion, but also "with ease and polish, and with all the thrill of a detective story."
Kenan Tevfik Erim was born in Istanbul on Feb. 13, 1929, and received his early education in Geneva, where his father was a Turkish representative to agencies of the League of Nations.
 
Arrived in U.S. in 1947
 The son came to the United States in 1947, earned a Bachelor of Arts degree and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa at New York University. He earned Master of Arts and Ph.D. degrees at Princeton.
He had been a faculty member at N.Y.U. since 1958 and a professor of classics there since 1971. He was fluent in many languages besides Turkish and English, including French, Italian and German, as well as Latin and Greek, which were among the courses he taught.
His awards included honors from the National Geographic Society, New York City and several countries. In later years Dr. Erim concentrated increasingly on the digging at Aphrodisias and on raising funds for the project, which he termed his "love affair with Aphrodite."
He is survived by a sister, Canan Camogly of London.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Kenan T. Erim (National Geographic Society, 1973)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: TURKEY (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (50%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (59%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (59%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); CLASSICS (90%); DEATHS (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); DEVALUATION (53%); BOOK REVIEWS (50%); 

PERSON: ERIM, KENAN T (DR); FLINT, PETER B

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



185 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
How Ronald Reagan Overcame Doubts and Became President

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:

An American Life
The Autobiography
By Ronald Reagan
Illustrated. 748 pages. Simon & Schuster. $24.95.
In the touching early part of his autobiography, former President Ronald Reagan confesses to a lack of self-esteem when he was a boy. "I suppose it isn't unusual for schoolchildren to suffer feelings of inferiority and lack of self-confidence -- I'd be surprised if it wasn't one of the most common afflictions of childhood -- but when it's happening to you, it can seem the biggest thing in the world, and for a while it caused me a lot of heartache." 
 Part of his problem, he writes, was that his family moved so often that it was hard for him to make friends; ever since he has found it difficult "to get close to people." Part of it was that his father, whom from adolescence he called Jack, was an alcoholic, though the young Reagan never stopped loving and respecting him, if only because his mother always stressed that drinking was a disease. And part of it was that he wasn't any good at sports. He was smaller than other boys his age, and he simply couldn't keep his eye on the ball.
Some relief came when his mother urged him to memorize and recite a speech for a dramatic group she was active in. "For a kid suffering childhood pangs of insecurity, the applause was music," he recalls. "I didn't know it then, but, in a way, when I walked off the stage that night, my life had changed." And then one Sunday during a family drive, he idly tried on his mother's eyeglasses: "The next instant, I let out a yelp that almost caused Jack to run off the road. Nobody knew what I was yelling about, but I'd discovered a world I didn't know existed before."
To judge from "An American Life," that was the end of Mr. Reagan's doubt about himself. To hear him defend what many would call the vulnerable points of his Presidency, one might even go so far as to say the glasses (or contact lenses) he wore from that point on were rose-colored ones. He writes, for example, that for him not to have gone to the military cemetery at Bitburg, where 48 SS storm troopers are buried, during his state visit to West Germany in the spring of 1985, would have been the same as West German leaders refusing to go to Arlington National Cemetery while on a visit to the United States.
 He writes that he never traded arms for hostages during the imbroglio that developed into the Iran-contra affair: "None of the arms we'd shipped to Iran had gone to the terrorists who had kidnapped our citizens." As for the economic program contemptuously called Reaganomics (at least, as he writes, until it started working): everything about it was a success except that "the vested interests that hold sway over Congress prevented us from cutting spending nearly as much as I had hoped to, or as the country required."
Of course, this is what Presidential autobiographies are for: to explain away, to justify and to rationalize. Beyond the vulnerable portrait Mr. Reagan offers of his youth, there is nothing very surprising about "An American Life." What one gets is the commonsensical man from Middle America who started out as a Roosevelt Democrat and grew up to hate high taxes, big government and Communism, and whose greatest pride as President was to have started down the road toward nuclear disarmament.
What one also gets is the sort of public-private prose that can sometimes be stultifying. "As the pages of the calendar were turning in 1987, so were the pages of history," a typical passage reads. Even Mr. Reagan's greatest achievement -- his breakthrough to one-on-one diplomacy with the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev -- is ultimately tedious to read about at such length. It may simply be that nuclear-arms diplomacy is too momentous for the scale of a memoir.
 Still, as Presidential memoirs go, this one is not bad, especially when compared with those of other recent Presidents. Mr. Reagan has a distinct and personal voice (thanks in part to the writer Robert Lindsey, who, the author acknowledges, "was with me every step of the way"). His public voice is tempered by well-timed jokes and anecdotes.
He is movingly devoted when he writes about his wife and "best friend," Nancy. ("I just dropped my head and cried," he reports, when he learned that she had breast cancer.) He is touchingly tongue-tied when it comes to explaining his failed marriage to Jane Wyman and his alienation from his daughter Patti Davis. Despite the subtitle of his book, "The Autobiography," he comes across as an unpretentious and likable man.
What is most striking of all is the sense of authenticity that "An American Life" conveys. Somehow, the impression has grown up that the public Ronald Reagan was an amalgam of images, a manufactured presence, a product of the "fellows" who worked for him. But the portrait that emerges here is of a gifted youngster who taught himself to read at the age of 5 and showed an ability to lead people as early as high school.
He learned the art of negotiation when as president of the Screen Actors Guild he went head-to-head with Hollywood's studio heads, who were not exactly shrinking violets, and he learned to fight Communism when he challenged those he believed were trying to subvert well-meaning liberals in the film business (although he slips somewhat by never offering precise evidence of how he "knew from the experience of hand-to-hand combat that America faced no more insidious or evil threat than that of Communism.")
In the end, the reader is denied both the empty figurehead and the two-dimensional opponent of the "evil empire" that Mr. Reagan is sometimes too facilely portrayed as being. The bountiful evidence of the personal command he exerted in the negotiations with Mr. Gorbachev contradicts the former image. The results of those dealings belie the latter.
Like many other Americans, Mr. Reagan worried when he first heard the call of politics that he was "only an actor," as one of his early opponents called him. Later he came to wonder "how you could be President and not be an actor." Despite its longueurs and other deficiencies, what "An American Life" conveys is that Ronald Reagan was both a consummate actor and a man of considerable substance. It was not with mirrors that despite the the Iran-contra scandal, he recovered his prestige and left office the most popular President of modern times.
If this book is any evidence, the American people were not entirely mistaken in admiring him so avidly.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald Reagan (Paul Conklin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AMERICAN LIFE, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (87%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (87%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); CHILDREN (72%); TERRORISM (60%); CEMETERIES (60%); HOSTAGE TAKING (60%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990



186 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Business and Health;
Big Costs Imposed On Drug Makers

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim

 BODY:
CHANGES that Congress has voted in the Federal-state Medicaid programs for
 the indigent are expected to cost pharmaceutical manufacturers at least $3.4 billion over five years in rebates on prescription drug prices.
The 1991 budget calls for $1.9 billion in Federal savings on Medicaid drugs and would lead to reductions of $1.5 billion in spending by the states for drugs. 
 Until recently Medicaid programs had to reimburse pharmacies on full list price for most prescription drugs under patent protection -- an estimated $4.7 billion this year. Last spring, however, Merck & Company, the largest pharmaceutical company, began offering price-cutting deals, and some companies followed. The companies hoped to head off restrictions proposed by Senator David Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, who heads the Committee on Aging, and which were later taken up by White House budget cutters.
But most drug companies did not accept the idea, and the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, a trade group, protested again last week that legislating rebates is "inconsistent with free market principles." Nevertheless, in all-night negotiations of the Senate Finance Committee, the Aging Committee, the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the Office of Management and Budget, the drug makers were hit even harder than the Bush Administration had intended. Congress stiffened the bill, partly to get money for new Medicaid programs for poor children and for elderly and disabled people.
The rebates would start slowly, costing only about $91 million in the first year, but surging to more than $1 billion a year in 1994 and 1995, theCongressional Budget Office estimates.
For makers of brand-name drugs who rebuffed all Medicaid demands for concessions, the law requires rebates of at least 12.5 percent of the average manufacturer's price in the first two years. Those companies that had granted deep discounts to veterans' hospitals and other high-volume customers would have to do the same for Medicaid, with a 25 percent limit at first. In October 1992, the minimum would become 15 percent, and the drug makers would have to give Medicaid the best price that they give to any customer, which in some cases would mean cuts of 40 percent or more.
Charles A. Sanders, chief executive of the American unit of Glaxo Holdings P.L.C., one of the largest drug makers, said some companies might be unfairly penalized. "Companies that have traditionally given discounts to charitable hospitals and the Veterans Administration will now have to pay greater discounts than companies that historically didn't give discounts," he said. He would not discuss Glaxo discounts.
The makers of lower-priced generic drugs, which do not have patent protection and have longmade discount deals with Medicaid, would have to give rebates of at least 10 percent for three years and 11 percent thereafter.
The drug makers would not be allowed to raise prices to Medicaid faster than the rise in the Consumer Price Index. "In the last 10 years, the price of prescription drugs has increased three times as fast as general inflation," Senator Pryor said. "I think this measure was long overdue."
The drug makers did get one concession: the restrictions that kept Medicaid patients in some states from getting the most expensive drugs were eased on the ground that the poor and the elderly should not be limited to "second-class medicine."
In the recent company deals, Medicaid programs had to make room for the excluded drugs. Merck, for example, offered 10 percent cuts if most Merck products were approved. John L. Zabriskie Jr., president of Merck Sharp & Dohme, a Merck unit, said that his company's program, which 38 states have accepted, was intended "to insure that Medicaid patients have the same access to important medicines as the general public."
The budget bill would prevent states from excluding a product outright. But states can still require advance approval for certain drugs.
Congressional aides said existing programs like Merck's would remain in effect until they are due for renewal. Then the companies would have to meet the minimum rebates in the bill, which securities analysts said could slow earnings growth.
Hemant K. Shah, an independent analyst in Warren, N.J., said companies like American Home Products, Eli Lilly, SmithKline Beecham and Upjohn have "above-average business with Medicaid and give above-average discounts to V.A. hospitals." He said that because the manufacturers' costs would not change, the rebates would come out of profits. "The most negative result is that the Federal Government is now directly involved in paying for pharmaceuticals," Mr. Shah said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS AND HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (91%); MRK (NYSE) (91%); GSK (NYSE) (85%); GSK (LSE) (85%); BIOC (EGX) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (91%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (85%); PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICAID (TITLE XIX OF FED MEDICARE LEGISLATION) PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (94%); MEDICAID (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (77%); AGING (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); PHARMACIES (72%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); PATENTS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (67%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (63%); VETERANS (62%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



187 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Has Sharp Decline On Fears About Economy

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell sharply yesterday, reaching record lows against the German mark and the Swiss franc, as traders continued to take a pessimistic view of the United States economy.
Gold prices rose in response to the dollar's decline.
Analysts said no new developments affected the dollar yesterday, but it slid on continuing expectations that the Federal Reserve would be forced to lower interest rates to shore up the economy.
 
 Fall Likely to Continue
<
 Market participants said they expect the dollar's decline to continue. "There's no reason why the trend should not continue," said Robert Ryan, corporate foreign exchange manager with the Bank of New York. 
 As long as the economy weakens, traders are expected to shun the dollar. Like all currencies, it is supported by higher interest rates, and the prospect of lower rates weakens the dollar's ability to compete against currencies of nations with higher rates.
The dollar fell to its lowest close against the German mark since the mark was created in 1948, ending at 1.4850 German marks, down from 1.4945 on Friday, its previous low.
The dollar also reached a new closing low against the Swiss franc, ending at 1.2505 francs in New York, down from late Friday's 1.2605. The previous low was 1.2558 francs on Aug. 23.
Against the French currency, the dollar fell below 5 francs, closing in New York at 4.9810 francs, down from 5.0180 on Friday.
The dollar also fell against the Japanese currency and the British pound.
Against the yen, the dollar dropped in New York to 126.55 yen, from 127.78 on Friday. Earlier, in Tokyo trading, the dollar fell to a closing 127.35 Japanese yen, from 129.10 yen at Friday's close. In London, it was quoted at 127.05 yen.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.9675, from $1.9515 late Friday. The pound also rose in New York, where it closed at $1.9740, up from Friday's $1.9590.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's prices, included 1,116.00 Italian lire, down from 1,123.75, and 1.15875 Canadian dollars, down from 1.16475.
Gold rose $3.10 on the Commodity Exchange in New York, closing at $379.50 an ounce. Republic National Bank later quoted a bid of $378.65, up $2.40.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $377.25 an ounce, from $376.25 late Friday. In Zurich, gold rose to a closing bid of $376.30, up from $375.50 late Friday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $3.13, closing at $376.93.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (51%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD; PRICES GERMAN MARK (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BRITISH POUND (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); JAPANESE YEN (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



188 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
At Coast Savings, Is the Worst Over?

BYLINE: By Richard W. Stevenson

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
COAST SAVINGS FINANCIAL INC., the parent of the nation's 10th-largest savings and loan association, is at a crossroads.
Coast, which has assets of $10.2 billion and 120 branches in California, has been running up big losses for two years. Its capital is badly depleted and barely meets the minimum Federal requirements. Last month it suspended its quarterly dividend of 10 cents a share on common stock. 
 Reflecting the company's troubles, Coast's stock has been in free fall -- from $20 last year to as low as $2 in recent weeks. It closed yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange at $2.75, down 25 cents.
Some analysts say Coast will do no better than limp along, suffering further losses, until Government regulators take it over or arrange a merger with a healthier financial institution. Coast's management argues -- and some analysts agree -- that the worst is behind, and that the institution can survive, if not prosper. In either case, the next few quarters will be crucial for Coast and its operating subsidiary, Coast Federal Bank.
"They're walking a tightrope," said Michael Abrahams, an analyst at Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards in Los Angeles.
If Coast is to make a comeback, the first step will be its planned sale of 27 branches in Southern and central California. The 27 have a total of $1.2 billion in deposits, and based on recent prices paid for other institutions' branches, Coast should realize a gain of some $60 million from the transaction, analysts said. Final bids are to be submitted this week. The $60 million would help buttress Coast's capital position just in time to help it meet stricter new Federal regulatory requirements for financial health that go into effect for the savings and loan industry at the beginning of next year.
As it sold branches and deposits, the company would also sell assets, like loans and mortgage-backed securities. The shrinking process would help the company's capital position because the Government's capital standards, in general terms, are calculated as a ratio of capital to size.
But the gain from the branch sale would mean little if the company had further substantial losses. In the third quarter, Coast lost $24.4 million after adding $61 million to its general loan loss reserves -- funds set aside to cover any unexpected losses. In the second quarter, Coast had added $31.5 million to its loss reserves for troubled loans and $16.5 million to its reserves for losses on foreclosed real estate. Through the first three quarters of the year, Coast lost $47.2 million.
The additional reserves were taken as a result of a joint examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of Thrift Supervision, the primary Federal regulators. It was one of the first major examinations of a savings institution undertaken by the F.D.I.C. since it assumed regulatory responsibility for the savings and loan industry, and it clearly showed that the agency is pushing savings institutions to bring loss reservesup to the higher levels maintained by commercial banks.
Many of Coast's troubled or potentially troubled loans were made in themid-1980's, when it moved aggressively to lend to commercial real estate developers outside California. Now Coast is also facing the incipient downturn in the California economy and troubles in the state's formerly robust real estate markets. During the third quarter, Coast foreclosed on its largest single loan, a $29 million credit on a Long Beach office building.
Some analysts think Coast faces a strong possibility of significant further losses inside and outside California, potentially wiping out its capital or leaving it below Government requirements. "They have no defenses against any further major hits, and they stand a good chance of taking some," said Peter Treadway, an analyst at Smith Barney.
Ray Martin, Coast's chairman and chief executive, said the company believed that its reserves were adequate to protect it from further deterioration of the economy and the real estate market. Coast does not expect to have to make further large additions to its loss reserves, he said, adding that the company expected to be profitable in the fourth quarter.
The company stopped making out-of-state commercial loans several years ago, Mr. Martin said, and now makes only residential loans within California. Like most California savings and loan executives, Mr. Martin said he thought the softening of the real estate market here would never reach the proportions of the downturns in Texas and Arizona.
"We don't think there's going to be any serious real estate problem in California as far as residential loans" are concerned, he said.
Coast will probably shrink to $9 billion to $9.5 billion in assets after the branch sale, Mr. Martin said, then will begin growing again. "We're feeling pretty good about the future," he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CSA (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COAST SAVINGS FINANCIAL INC

SUBJECT: SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); DIVIDENDS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (61%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



189 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Families of American Troops in Gulf Find Solace in Talking to Each Other

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Nov. 4

 BODY:
As the Bush Administration talked tough about Saddam Hussein last week, families of American troops in the Persian Gulf region wondered if the renewed bellicosity signaled danger for their loved ones, who so far have battled only sand, scorpions and restlessness.
"This feels like 'It,' " said Gaye Jacobson of South San Francisco, whose son Derek is a medic with a Marine mortar unit in Saudi Arabia, near the Kuwaiti border. "Within a month, I think we'll be in a fighting war. The only question in my mind is whether it will it be long-term or short-term, 20,000 lives or 100,000 lives." 
 "I think the President is trying to prepare the American people for an offensive move," said Ms. Jacobson, the founder of a counseling group here for relatives of American troops and hostages in the Middle East. "It's a way for him to recover his popularity. And historically, when the economy suffers, one of the healers is war."
 
'Keep the Pressure On'
 Lee Mulligan of Danville heard something different in the renewed tough talk from Washington: an inducement to the Iraqi leader to negotiate a peaceful end to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and a sign that Mr. Mulligan's son Patrick, a Marine lieutenant, might be rotated home as new troops take his place.
"President Bush should keep the pressure on more strenuously," Mr. Mulligan said. "He let it lie too long because of the budget. But my wife and I have different opinions. Maybe it goes with the personality of the individual. I'm an optimist and I think they're going to talk their way out of this crisis."
Ms. Jacobson and Mr. Mulligan are among several dozen mothers, fathers, spouses and siblings in the San Francisco area who have gathered in this Silicon Valley suburb each Sunday since late summer to share their feelings, exchange letters from the front and offer each other the commiseration that they say does not come from neighbors, colleagues or friends.
Ernie Reyes of San Bruno, whose son Vincent is a Marine lieutenant aboard the Durham, an amphibious cargo ship, said the group is valuable because "we don't know anyone else with a son over there." Mr. Reyes added, "It's hard to have a heavy burden and no one to share it with."
 
A Heavy Agenda
 At meetings of the group, called Operation Yellow Ribbon, the family members digest the latest news, and this week they had a heavy agenda. Since they last met, 11 more Americans had accidentally died. The Pentagon had announced the deployment of up to 100,000 new troops, including reservists, and President Bush had said he would spend Thanksgiving in the Saudi desert. The President had also declared that he has "had it" with the cruel treatment of American hostages in Iraq and Kuwait.
But current events paled before more mundane concerns.
Carmen Reyes, Ernie's wife, was dismayed to realize that the 14 pounds of chocolate chip cookies she sent her son had probably melted in the Saudi heat. Windy Underwood of Fremont was near tears when she said she would reschedule her Dec. 8 wedding to Jesse Spencer, an Army paratrooper, because she doubted he would be back in time.
And Barbara Seith of San Jose asked lots of questions about the supplies carried by the medics in the desert. Would they have the right ointment or pill if her son James, a Marine lance corporal, was stung by the scorpions and spiders that all the boys were writing home about?
Much of the talk was of packages planned or sent.
Cynthia Lewis's son had just returned home because he needed ear surgery, but the Oakland woman was going to send a shipment of dehydrated Japanese noodle soup to the friends he had left behind. Ms. Jacobson's son included additional requests in each letter: Kool-Aid powder and beef jerky, a Walkman and a Frisbee, back issues of Surfer magazine and a six-pack of Coors light beer.
Molly Webb's son had been in the desert with the Army First Cavalry for "three weeks and one day" and had yet to receive the care packages she had sent him. "Wait a month before you get concerned," said Bo Oldham of South San Francisco, whose son Casey is a medic.
 
Complaints About the News
 Many family members complained about the dearth of news from the Middle East in their local newspapers in recent weeks as the Bush Administration and Congress wrestled with the Federal budget. "I was real angry when that Washington stuff was being figured out and there was nothing on the front pages about our boys," said Mary Economy of San Jose, whose son Brian is a Navy gunner's mate.
Ms. Jacobson said she almost fell apart the day she was spinning the television dial looking for news from the gulf and found instead a report that Clark Kent was about to marry Lois Lane. "I became volatile," she said.
The families are also angry by what they describe as indifference from neighbors, friends and co-workers, who remind them that their loved ones enlisted and thus have no ground for dismay that they may be casualties of war.
"People in society seem so callous," said Audrey Tyler, whose brother is an Air Force sergeant in Saudi Arabia. "Even my own boyfriend said, 'Well, he signed up for it.' "
"They don't know how to react to us and so they react coldly," said Teresa Murphy of Fremont, whose father, a teacher, is a hostage in the American Embassy in Kuwait City. "It's not so much that they're hard-hearted, but they don't know what to say."
Ms. Murphy is the only relative of a hostage who attends meetings of Operation Yellow Ribbon, but the military families have welcomed her despite their sometimes conflicting interests. Her presence here makes the group unusual since support groups elsewhere tend to be segregated, like the counselling centers on military bases, reserved for dependents, who are overwhelmingly wives.
Here the group members are mostly mothers and they tell similar stories of children who fared poorly in school and enlisted seeking direction, discipline and career opportunities. Ms. Jacobson's 23-year-old son Derek seems typical, a young man disabled by dyslexia, who struggled to finish the 12th grade and now, inspired by his training as a medic, talks of becoming a doctor.
 
'This Sandbox'
 Derek's letters, five in all, are riddled by misspellings but eloquent nevertheless. He writes of "this sandbox" that is now his home and the flies that are "eating us up like crazy." He hypothesizes that "we or President Bush is waiting for the embargo to work" and says he plans to use his accumulated military pay for a "new car or a computer downpayment."
Before dawn on Saturday, Derek called home for the first time, during a trip to base camp with an injured marine. In an earlier letter, Derek had said he expected to be reassigned to the camp for two months, a comforting prospect to his mother, who thought he would be safer there.
On the phone, Derek said he had turned down the reassignment. "There's heavy rumors we'll be in combat soon," he told his mother. "And mom, if that happens, I want to be with my unit."
Recounting the story at the meeting, Ms. Jacobson brushed back tears and smiled gamely.
"This son of mine went over there not understanding what responsibility was," she said. "All he cared about was surfing. Now I'm hearing a young man who has grown up. Even in view of today's circumstances, I'm glad Derek did what he did."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Within a month, I think we'll be in a fighting war," said Gaye Jacobson, right, whose son is a Marine medic in Saudi Arabia. She hugged Audrey Tyler, anew member of a support group for relatives of military personnel in the Persian Gulf. Watching were Roxann Medrano and Ernie Reyes. (Fred Mertz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); KUWAIT (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; CALIFORNIA; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: MILITARY PERSONNEL; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BUDGETS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%); 

PERSON: JACOBSON, GAYE; GROSS, JANE SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



190 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Vehicle Sales Up 8.6% in Late October

BYLINE: By PAUL C. JUDGE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Sales of domestically built cars and light trucks rose 8.6 percent in late October, compared with soft sales in the period last year. But weak consumer confidence and recent moves by the Big Three to cut production suggest problems ahead, analysts said.
Discounts of more than $1,000 on many models helped lift car sales to 229,616 for Oct. 21-31, up 12.1 percent from 204,793 in the period last year. Sales of light trucks remained slow, as manufacturers sold 123,191 pick-ups, mini-vans and four-wheel-drive vehicles, a gain of 2.6 percent from last year. Analysts speculate that the slowdown in light trucks may be related to concern over fuel economy. 
 On a seasonally adjusted basis, cars sold at an annual rate of 7 million in late October, in line with the rate for the year so far, and ahead of the 6.4 million rate set in late October 1989.
For the month, car sales increased 2.7 percent, while sales of light trucks were down 3.1 percent, compared with sluggish demand last year.
Analysts were divided in their interpretations.
 
 Sales 'Perhaps Too Good'
 Contrary to predictions, "sales have not headed south," said Ann Knight of Paine Webber. "That's good for the industry, perhaps too good for the economic climate we're facing."
Some analysts suggested that sales to rental car companies and other large fleets may have inflated the sales of the Big Three. Joel Pitcoff, a market analyst with the Ford Motor Company, said sales of Ford cars to fleets rose several percentage points in October, compared with a year earlier. Ms. Knight said she believed fleet sales at General Motors were unusually high.
"Retail business is softer than fleet business," said Mr. Pitcoff.
Ronald A. Glantz of Dean Witter Securities Inc. in San Francisco, suggested the sales figures looked better than they actually were because of statistical anomalies in the Commerce Department formula used to derive the seasonally adjusted annual rate of car sales.
Deep production cuts announced last week by G.M., Ford and Chrysler provided ample evidence that the domestic auto makers are bracing for a drop in sales. In the past week, G.M. has cut 204,000 cars and light trucks from its fourth-quarter assembly schedule, while Ford has trimmed 44,000 and Chrysler 40,000, according to Ward's Automotive Reports, an industry newsletter. The cuts add up to 7.8 percent of the 3.3 million vehicles the Big Three had planned to build in the fourth quarter.
 
 Orders Slow Down
 Dealer orders for new cars and trucks have already slowed down, said James B. Fitzpatrick, a General Motors Corporation vice president. "Looking toward the final two months of 1990, we expect increased competitive pressure," he said.
Prospective car buyers in October reported the lowest level of confidence in the economy since 1981, according to the University of Michigan's long-running Survey of Consumer Sentiment.
"Conventional wisdom seems to be that sooner or later the barrage of bad news since early August is bound to take its toll on the automotive market," said Robert L. Rewey, vice president of sales for Ford's North American automotive operations.
But sales since the Persian Gulf crisis began have exceeded Ford's expectations, Mr. Rewey said.
For the month, the Big Three showed surprising strength in car sales, recording a collective gain of 6.1 percent. The share of the car market claimed by the Big Three rose in October to 63.8 percent, from 61.8 percent last year, with G.M. accounting for most of the increase.
 
 Imports From Japan Fall
 In contrast, imports of cars made in Japan fell 11 percent in October, translating into a decline in market share, to 17 percent of the United States car market, from 19.6 percent last year. But Japanese auto factories in the United States lifted their sales by 36.5 percent during the month, and increased their collective market share to 10.9 percent, from 8.2 percent last year, an even larger gain than that posted by the Big Three.
General Moors sold 96,453 cars in late October, up 5 percent from the period last year.
G.M.'s light truck sales were up 1 percent, to 47,226 units.
 
 Ford Sales Are Up
 Ford reported car sales of 61,799, a 13.4 percent gain. Ford's Escort and Tracer subcompacts continued to gain momentum while, at the luxury end, the Lincoln Town car also attracted buyers.
Ford sold 42,386 light trucks, up 6.5 percent, on strong sales of the four-wheel-drive Explorer.
Chrysler sold 31,435 cars, a gain of 10.1 percent. Chrysler's light trucks fell 8.2 percent, to 26,818.
Honda Motor Company sold 14,882 cars made at its plant in Marysville, Ohio, a decline of 4.6 percent.
Toyota Motor Corporation nearly doubled sales of cars made at its factory in Georgetown, Ky., to 14,970, reflecting added production capacity.
Nissan Motor Company sold 5,472 cars, up 45 percent, and 4,815 light trucks, a gain of 12.4 percent, assembled in Smyrna, Tenn.
 
 Chrysler Adds to Production
 DETROIT, Nov. 5 (Reuters) -- The Chrysler Corporation will introduce a new shift at its St. Louis II plant in Fenton, Mo., to increase production of its mini-vans, the United Auto Workers union said today.
According to a UAW document detailing the union's tentative contract agreement with Chrysler, reached Oct. 30, the additional shift is being added to meet strong demand for the Plymouth Voyager and Dodge Caravan mini-vans.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Seasonally adjusted annual selling rates for American-made cars.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; SALES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (94%); MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SALES FIGURES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RETAILERS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LAYOFFS (64%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: JUDGE, PAUL C MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



191 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Voters to Decide on Bond Act For Environmental Projects

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 5

 BODY:
With New York State virtually out of money to buy land, protect watersheds, promote recycling and initiate other environmental projects, voters must decide on Tuesday whether to authorize large-scale borrowing for such purposes.
Proposal One, the $1.975 billion Environmental Quality Bond Act, would allow the state to issue bonds over the next 10 years to pay for measures that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and top lawmakers say are needed to protect the environment. 
 Despite a flurry of campaigning by Mr. Cuomo and several leaders of environmental groups, proponents of the measure say they are concerned that many people do not understand the bond act and might vote against it. Opponents say the act should be defeated because the state cannot afford to add to its long-term debt; some say that even if money were available, the state should not be buying land with it.
The last environmental bond act, for $1.45 billion, in 1986, passed by a 2-to-1 ratio. Practically all of the $250 million in that measure for land acquisition has been spent, and much of the rest of it was set aside for cleanup of toxic-waste sites.
 
Bond Cost Minimized
 Bond-act votes are never easy to predict. A poll released last week by the nonpartisan Marist Institute of 1,032 registered voters found that 59.7 percent of respondents said they knew nothing about the bond act. Of those who said they were likely to vote on it, 40.2 percent said they would favor it, 14.4 percent said they would oppose it and the rest described themselves as undecided. The poll reported a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Perhaps not surprisingly, proponents of the bond act have minimized its cost, pointing out that it would be about $7 a year for each state resident, while opponents have sought to magnify it, saying that with inflation the true price could be close to $4 billion statewide over the 30 years it would take to pay off the bonds.
Many local government leaders have said they desperately need money to help close landfills or start recycling, and many have said they could be forced to raise local property taxes without money from the state. State officials say that because of the state's severe budget problems, if the bond act fails, they will be left with practically no way to finance state purchases of environmentally sensitive land in the Adirondacks, the Catskills and on the Long Island aquifer.
The $1.975 billion would be broken down in this manner:
*Land acquisition, $800 million.
*Water-quality improvements, $174 million..
*Projects like closing landfills and recycling, $525 million.
*Park renovations and historic preservation, $175 million.
*Other rehabilitation projects, $201 million.
*Continuing to develop an esplanade along the Hudson River on Manhattan's West Side, $100 million.
Rejection of the bond act would add from $60 million to $70 million to the state's current budget gap, Cuomo administration officials say, to finance park renovations and other state projects now under way that New York is hoping to pay for with bond act money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (66%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); LANDFILLS (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); WATER QUALITY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); BOND ISSUES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%); PROPERTY TAX (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



192 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
Voters Complain Negative Campaigns Are Driving Them Away

BYLINE: By RANDALL ROTHENBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WAUKEGAN, Ill., Nov. 2

 BODY:
At Aunt Millie's Restaurant, a diner in this industrial city 40 miles north of Chicago, Leonard Davis said political advertising had just about persuaded him to stay home on Election Day.
"There's a lot of mudslinging and they're pulling a lot of skeletons out of the closet to get elected, and it makes me think everybody in office is just out for their own gain," said Mr. Davis, a 42-year-old hospital orderly. 
 He said television commercials had reinforced his decision not to vote for the Republican candidate for the United States Senate, Representative Lynn Martin, because "she voted to give herself a $35,000 raise." But he said he probably would not vote for the incumbent, Senator Paul Simon, either, having learned from advertisements that "he's a crook, too."
 
 A National Pattern
 Mr. Davis's advertising-induced disaffection from politics appears to be part of a pattern that is being detected around the country. According to a new New York Times/CBS News Poll, voters are overwhelmingly aware of televised political advertising, and substantial numbers are saying that campaigns have become more negative than a decade ago.
The findings correspond with a growing distrust in the Federal Government's ability to act on behalf of the public; the trend coincides with the growth of negative campaigning in the 1980's.
The Times/CBS News telephone survey of 1,445 adults nationwide, conducted Oct. 28 to Oct. 31, included 1,137 registered voters and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Sixty-seven percent of the registered voters participating said they remembered political commercials they had seen on television this year; that figure was up from the 58 percent who said they could recall advertisements in a similar poll conducted four years ago. More than 4 registered voters in 10 said they perceived campaigns as more negative than a decade ago, and more than half said most of the advertisements they had seen attacked a candidate.
The negative commercials seem to be working, at least to some degree. Twenty-three percent of registered voters said their votes would be influenced by commercials they had seen -- an "astonishingly high number," said Daniel Yankelovich, a public opinion researcher, who has written widely on Americans' political and social attitudes.
 
 'Tip of the Iceberg'
 "People don't like to admit that commercials help them decide anything," explained Mr. Yankelovich. "They're not conscious of it, and it's not quite socially acceptable. You can be pretty sure that this is just the tip of the iceberg."
Asked in a survey after the 1984 election whether commercials had helped them choose a Presidential candidate, only 11 percent of registered voters said yes. A direct comparison cannot be drawn between a midterm election and a Presidential campaign, in which voters generally pay more attention and see the same commercials nationwide, but Mr. Yankelovich said the increase from 1984 to 1990 "could be a continuation of the trend."
When asked, "How much of the time do you think you can trust the Government in Washington to do what is right?" 73 percent of all respondents said some of the time or never, in the highest proportion indicating such distrust since March 1980, when the Carter Administration was drawing to a close amid economic sluggishness and the Iranian hostage crisis.
At Aunt Millie's, which calls itself "The Home of Real People," half a dozen real people were unanimous in their expressions of distaste for political advertising and candidates.
"Politics is supposed to be dirty, but not this much," said Jose Ospina, who emigrated from Colombia 23 years ago and worked on the assembly line at the Chrysler automobile plant in nearby Kenosha, Wis., before it closed two years ago.
 
 One Was Persuaded
 He said the advertisements by candidates for governor of Illinois -- State Attorney General Neil Hartigan, the Democrat, and Secretary of State Jim Edgar, the Republican -- had persuaded him that most politicians were part of the same corrupt fraternity.
"You have two candidates who worked together for many years, but they never attacked each other before," said Mr. Ospina, 53, of Waukegan. "If they knew three or five years ago about each other, why did they wait until now to say it?"
Most of the people surveyed for The New York Times/CBS News Poll and who were reached for interviews afterward said they trusted the information in such advertisements.
"I still believe in libel laws," said Allan Clarke, a 39-year-old postal clerk in Rochester. "How can they come out and say these things? There has to be some truth to it."
Other respondents who said their votes were influenced by political commercials said the advertisements had helped turn them against the system.
Debbie Meier, a veterinary nurse in Sacramento, Calif., said she had planned to vote for Pete Wilson, the Republican candidate for governor, but changed her mind after seeing advertisements against him by his opponent, Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat.
"I was in favor of Wilson, but her ads made me doubt him," said Ms. Meier, who is 29. "The ads have made me confused. Now, I don't want to vote for either of them."
Mr. Yankelovich, the public opinion researcher, speculated that public trust in the Government could grow once the campaign ends. "If your mood is fearful, and you can't get away from these attacks, then you'll be low and lacking in confidence," he said. "When the attacks stop, there will be certain relief, just through the absence of stimuli."

GRAPHIC: Chart: Percentage of people saying that they never can or only some of the time can trust the Government in Washington to do what is right.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; VOTER BEHAVIOR; ADVERTISING; TELEVISION POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TRENDS (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: ROTHENBERG, RANDALL MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



193 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Oil Drops More than $2, To $31.96

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Crude oil dropped more than $2 yesterday as traders' fear of normal supplies began to overpower their fear of war.
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude for delivery next month closed at $31.96, off $2.04 a barrel, and down more than 9 percent since Thursday. Some traders said oil would fall back into the $20's later this week. Oil has not closed below $30 since mid-September, except for a one-day drop on Oct. 23. 
 Product prices also fell. Unleaded gasoline for December delivery closed at 87.54 cents a gallon, down 1.67 cents, or 70 cents a barrel. And heating oil closed at 84.46 cents a gallon, down 2.96 cents, or $1.24 a barrel.
"The fact that Mr. Baker is in Saudi Arabia and Mr. Bush is scheduled to go later on in the month implies that war is not imminent," said Shahrokh Nikkhah, of Prudential-Bache. This week's visit by Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, and the scheduled visit by President Bush do not preclude military action, Mr. Nikkhah said, but the perception was that there would be no war before Thanksgiving.
 
 Attention to Fundamentals
 At Pegasus Econometric Group, Thomas P. Blakeslee, an oil market analyst, said, "The politicians aren't stirring the Middle East cauldron because they're campaigning."
With the threat of war receding from traders' minds, oil experts said the market was paying more attention to the fundamentals, the balance of supply and demand. The Saudi oil minister said over the weekend that his country was producing 8.2 million barrels a day and would reach 8.5 million barrels a day next year.
"People hadn't thought it had gotten that high yet," said Mr. Blakeslee. "The fundamentals are extremely strong, from the consumer's point of view."
World oil production, never something measured with precision, now seems roughly equal to what it was before Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2 and the United Nations imposed a boycott on oil from those countries, which had previously produced more than 4.5 million barrels a day.
Equal production may not mean equal price, however, because of fear of war or other disruption. James A. Gibbs, the president of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, said yesterday that production was within 2 percent of capacity: "If there is a major fire in the North Sea, a problem in shipping or a problem anywhere, 2 percent is not a very wide margin."
On the other side of the equation -- demand -- the International Energy Agency said yesterday that it expected demand in the fourth quarter to be 54.1 million barrels a day, down from 54.4 million barrels last year. The reason is a combination of resistance to higher prices and an economic slowdown.
 
 'Bunch of Scared Rabbits'
 The agency measures demand outside Communist and formerly Communist countries.
The degree to which oil demand responds in the short term to price changes is the subject of some debate. And Melvin A. Conant, a Washington-based oil consultant, said the demand figures should be regarded with some skepticism because they were based on just 30 days and because counting was still incomplete in some countries.
He added that while prices were up sharply, no third-world countries appeared unable to buy the oil they needed, at least thus far.
The market remains mercurial. Mr. Bentz said it was prone to sudden moves because everyone thinks the same way. Referring to market participants who had bought contracts that promise future delivery at a fixed price, he said, "You're long, you're happy, you're making money, and all of a sudden something comes out in the news or there's a turn in the marekt, and everybody jumps on the bandwagon to get out. Everybody wants to get through the door at the same time and there are these very very violent turns."
"A lot of traders seem like a bunch of scared rabbits," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: The price for a barrel of crude oil for December delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter) (pg. D15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (79%); FUTURES (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BOYCOTTS (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MINING OUTPUT (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (55%); THANKSGIVING (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



194 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Dismisses Envoy Suspected as Spy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d today dismissed Felix S. Bloch, the American diplomat who has been under investigation for almost two years on suspicion of being a Soviet agent but has not been charged because of lack of evidence.
Mr. Bloch was dismissed because of "deliberate false statements or misrepresentations" to the Federal Bureau of Investigation during that inquiry, and because of "his behavior, activities and associations," the department said in a prepared statement. 
 The statement said Mr. Baker had found Mr. Bloch's removal "necessary and advisable in the interest of national security." Mr. Bloch was notified of his dismissal in writing today, the statement said.
Neither Mr. Bloch nor his lawyer, John M. Bray, returned telephone calls seeking their comment.
Mr. Bloch, 55 years old, was a top diplomat at the American Embassy in Vienna from 1981 to 1987, and then moved to the Bureau of European and Canadian Affairs. He worked there until 1989, when nvestigators said they had photographed him in Paris as he gave a briefcase to a man who was later identified as a K.G.B. agent.
 
First Such Case Since '61
 He is the first American diplomat to be disciplined on espionage-related charges since a low-level embassy officer was convicted of passing documents in Warsaw in 1961.
Mr. Bloch has declined to declare his innocence publicly, saying instead that the Government lacks the evidence to charge him with criminal wrongdoing. He has not contested any of the Government actions against him, but has never explained why he did not do so.
Mr. Baker's action has little immediate effect on Mr. Bloch, who had been suspended without pay from his $81,400-a-year job at State Department headquarters since February.
The dismissal does lay the groundwork for an effort to revoke Mr. Bloch's pension. That effort is being reviewed by the department's legal adviser, said a department official who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 
Record No Longer Spotless
 The dismissal also insures that Mr. Bloch will not leave the Government with an officially spotless record, an issue about which senior officials are said to feel strongly.
Mr. Bloch and the Government have been sparring at least since early 1989, shortly after he came under investigation. Then a senior economic official in the State Department's bureau of European and Canadian affairs, he was secretly photographed during a trip to Paris in the company of a K.G.B. agent.
In one such meeting, Mr. Bloch passed a valise to the man. He has since stated that he and the man are stamp collectors and that the valise contained several sheets of stamps.
The K.G.B. apparently learned of the inquiry and warned Mr. Bloch about it that spring, officials have said. But by that time, they said, investigators suspected that Mr. Bloch had been associated with the K.G.B. since the mid-1970's, when he was a commercial officer in what was then a new American Embassy in East Berlin.
Among the evidence is a surreptitious tape recording in which Mr. Bloch told his wife that he had been accepting money from Moscow for years, officials say. The inquiry also is said to have turned up evidence that Mr. Bloch spent large sums of money for the services of a prostitute during a tour of duty in Vienna in the 1980's.
He was assigned to the embassy in Vienna in 1981 as an economic officer and advanced to deputy chief of mission, in which he was second-in-command to the Ambassador and privy to virtually all the mission's secrets. He remained there until 1987.
He was suspended from his job with pay in June 1989. The disclosure of the espionage inquiry created a sensation, and for months he was trailed wherever he went by a throng of reporters, cameramen and F.B.I. agents.
The State Department revoked Mr. Bloch's pay in February and said it intended to dismiss him. After he protested, the department scheduled a private hearing in which he was to defend himself, but the hearing never took place.
The F.B.I. investigation into his activities remains open.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (52%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE INVESTIGATIONS (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (79%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); LAWYERS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (60%); 

PERSON: BLOCH, FELIX S; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); WINES, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



195 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
CAMPAIGN ENDING WITH VOTERS SEEN IN A RESTIVE MOOD

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
An election year that began with the nation at peace and feeling prosperous wound up today with restless voters looking for ways to lash out at politicians and worried about war in the Persian Gulf and recession here at home.
Candidates around the country made their final appeals, and attacks, as their managers put the finishing touches on get-out-the-vote efforts. Everyone agreed it had been one of the wierdest midterm election seasons of modern times. 
 A restiveness was apparent on several fronts as election workers prepared to open the polls. More independent candidates were running well than at any time in recent memory. There were more ballot initiatives, the citizens' way of making an end run around politicians, than at any time since the Depression. And analysts said turnout could be as low as it was four years ago, or even lower; the rate in 1986 was the lowest in almost 50 years.
 
Possible Last-Minute Swings
 As campaigns shut down their polling operations, many reported that there were still unusually large numbers of voters who said they were undecided whom to vote for -- both a further index of dissatisfaction and a warning that last-minute swings could still produce upsets.
A lot depended on whether Americans expressed their frustration by going to the polls or by staying home. "If there is an intense angry last-minute minute vote, then a number of incumbents on both sides may get surprised," said Edward J. Rollins Jr., co-chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee.
President Bush began the year as a Republican Party asset and ended it perceived as a liability by many Republicans after embracing tax increases, something he long disavowed. He spent the day before the election campaigning with one of the few candidates still eager to appear with him, Clayton Williams, the Republican candidate for governor of Texas.
Officials in the campaign of Jim Edgar, the Republican candidate for governor of Illinois, declined Mr. Bush's offer of a late campaign stop because, the campaign spokesman, Mike Lawrence, said, "It might detract from the focus being on the two candidates."
The turn in Mr. Bush's fortunes reflected the roller coaster that all politicans have ridden this year. A few months ago Republicans thought that with the President receiving record approval ratings they might actually gain seats this year in Congress, even though the President's party historically loses seats in midterm elections. By about two weeks ago, they were fearing an electoral blowout, driven by anger over how Mr. Bush and the Republicans handled the deficit reduction deal. In the final days, these fears have calmed a bit, as the White House has tried to coax the nation's attention away from taxes and the economy and toward the Persian Gulf.
 
Senate Forecast: Little Change
 Both sides were predicting modest gains for the Democrats in the House of Representatives, perhaps 6 to 12 seats, and little if any change in the current balance in the Senate, where there are now 55 Democrats and 45 Republicans.
"After all the folderal it's going to be a regular midterm election," said Mary Matalin, chief of staff at the Republican National Committee.
Several crucial governor's races, including contests in Texas, Florida and Illinois, remained too close to call. But Republicans were bouyant about their chances to win this year's single biggest prize, the governorship of California. They were also optimistic about winning back the governorship in Ohio, a crucial swing state in Presidential races. Republicans even thought they had a shot at winning in Massachusetts, even though Democrats outnumber Republicans 4 to 1.
In New York, Governor Mario M. Cuomo was coasting toward a third term, one of the many incumbent governors, senators and House members whose opposition was underfinanced or nonexistent.
In Connecticut, Lowell P. Weicker Jr., a former Republican Senator, was having success with his independent candidacy for governor with a campaign built around attacks on both political parties.
This illustrated the power of a national mood of disgust with politicians and political parties. Since the Depression only one independent candidate has been elected governor. James B. Longley was elected governor of Maine in 1974, an election year dominated by Watergate, on a promise to restore faith in government. But as this Election Day approached, two independent candidates for governor were front-runners, Mr. Weicker in Connecticut and Walter J. Hickel, the former Interior Secretary, in Alaska.
In Vermont, an independent who is a socialist, Bernard Sanders, was given a good chance of unseating Representative Peter Smith, a Republican. The Democratic candidate was not even a factor in that race.
 
Two National Tides
 While most midterm elections are fought out on local issues and local personalities, two national tides seemed to be running, and not always in the same direction.
"On the one hand people want to vote against politicians, not just incumbents," said Mark Mellman, a poll taker for Democratic candidates in Oregon, Minnesota and other states. "They're angry and they want to send a message. At the same time, they want to vote for a Democrat because they are concerned about the economy. In some places, these trends reinforce. In some places, they contradict."
Voters were also torn between their desire for change and their increasing edginess about a world that grew more risky, both domestically and internationally, as the year went on. This seemed to shift the advantage in the campaign from candidates who offered dramatic change, like Dianne Feinstein, the Democratic candidate for governor of California, to those who also said they wanted to move, but more slowly, like her opponent, Senator Pete Wilson.
Right to the end Ms. Feinstein continued presenting herself as an agent for change. "Their blue suits mean business as usual," she declared. "I say elect this dress."
White House spokesmen stressed that the results of Tuesday's voting should not be viewed as a referendum on the President, a position they presumably would not be taking if they expected major gains.
The White House was spurned in recent days when it tried to arrange campaign appearances for Mr. Bush with a number of major candidates, including Mr. Edgar in Illinois, where taxes have become a central election issue. Mr. Bush ended up spending more time in Texas than he had orignally planned.
"It's the only place people want him," said a Republican strategist.
 
The Budget Issue
 The Republicans stressed that their projected loses would probably still be smaller than the historic average of 28 House seats for the President's party. But Democrats countered that the Republicans, with their 176 House seats, were already close to their historic lows in the number of seats they hold, and thus had few left to lose.
It was the President's mishandling of budget talks, Democrats said, that handed Democrats their closing advantage on domestic issues. The confrontation in the gulf and the weakness of the economy had the effect of pushing to the back issues that had been viewed as crucial earlier in the year, particularly abortion and the environment.
They remain relevant in a number of races. But six months ago it was universally thought that an environmental referendum known as Big Green was headed for passage in California. Today its chances appear to be bleak.
Of the 34 Senate seats to be filled on Tuesday, the closest races appeared to be in Hawaii, Minnesota and North Carolina. In North Carolina, Harvey Gantt, the Democrat, was seeking to unseat the three-term Senator, Jesse Helms. In Hawaii, the Democratic establishment was trying to protect Senator Daniel K. Akaka, appointed to the seat a few months ago, from a powerful challenge from the Republican Representative, Patricia Saiki. And in Minnesota, Senator Rudy Boschwitz, a Republican, was trying to turn back the challenge of Paul Wellstone, a college professor, by painting Mr. Wellstone as someone who would socialize health care and "double taxes of everyone making over $20,000."
Also on the ballot were 6,247 state legislative seats, and more than usual interest was focused on some of them because of the role legislators will have in drawing new political maps next year.
Among the 67 proposals on statewide ballots on Tuesday, the most since the Depression, were measures in Colorado and California to limit the terms of elected officials. Those measures have tapped a vein of voter frustration.
An estimated 186 million Americans are old enough to vote, but Curtis Gans, director of the Study of the American Electorate, said he expected that turnout would be close to, or even below, the 36 percent rate in 1986. That rate was the lowest for a midterm election since 1942, when the country was disrupted by the mobilization for World War II.
One reason for the expected low turnout, he suggested, was the unrelenting negative tone of many campaigns this year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush spent election eve campaigning in Texas for Republican candidates. With him in Tyler were Clayton Williams, right, candidate for governor, and Phil Gramm, who is seeking re-election to the Senate. (Associated Press) (pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; VOTER BEHAVIOR; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); GOVERNORS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BALLOTS (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ORESKES, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (89%); PHIL GRAMM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



196 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Advance Broadly; Dow Gains 11.39

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday for the third straight session but trading activity lagged as many investors marked time until after today's elections.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which climbed 12.62 points on Thursday and 35.89 on Friday, tacked on 11.39 yesterday, to 2,502.23. 
 Volume slumped to 147.5 million shares, from 168.7 million on Friday. But 1,029 stocks advanced yesterday, more than half the total traded, while only 547 fell, showing that gains extended well beyond the blue-chip stocks.
The Standard & Poor's average of 500 stocks rose twice as much as the 30-stock Dow average in percentage terms, while the Nasdaq composite index of smaller stocks was up three times as much.
 
 Gains at the Amex
 Even the American Stock Exchange's market-value index gained a little more than the Dow in percentage terms, showing that the smaller Amex stocks were picking up a bit.
Moreover, while new lows continued to pepper the Big Board list, the list of new highs rose to 14, while new lows were at 70.
Birinyi Associates said that despite some program buying, three selling waves clipped 6.43 points off the Dow by the end of the day.
Oil prices fell $2.04 a barrel, to $31.96, with $1 of the decline coming in the final hour and 45 minutes. In the same time span, the Dow made all of its gains of the day.
Still, analysts hardly mentioned oil, attributing yesterday's rise in stocks to expectations that the Federal Reserve might lower interest rates soon. They said that before moving into the market, other investors were watching the elections and the results of the Treasury's big auctions today, tomorrow and Thursday.
 
 Economic 'Free Fall'
 In support of lower rates, H. Erich Heinemann, chief economist for Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company, said: "The economy is on the edge or actually in a free fall. Employment is down 700,000 since June, unemployment claims are skyrocketing, real income is down and personal savings are sharply lower."
He forecast that the Federal funds rate, which banks charge one another for overnight loans, would drop from 7 3/4 now to 5 to 6 percent by the first half of next year.
Michael Metz, chief market analyst for Oppenheimer & Company, called the market "very resilient."
"There's been no change in the fundamental background," he said. "It's dominated by fears of recession/depression and the possibility of a financial catastrophe, but it looks like the market has largely discounted it. So many investors have so much cash that it's making both the stock and bond market go up. The trillion-dollar question is whether it's a short-term rally or a sustained rebound."
 
 Weak Credit Demand
 Discussing interest rates, Mr. Heinemann of Ladenburg, Thalmann, argued that "credit demand is so weak now that the Fed has to drain money out of the banks to keep rates from going down even more than has been the case."
"This 'tightening' is inadvertent," he said, "but is setting the stage for a much stronger drop in Fed funds later on."
In what appeared to be strong investor recognition that interest rates were on the way down, six of the Big Board's 10 most-active stocks were financially oriented: C&S/Sovran, which yields 9.83 percent, rose 1/8, to 16, on 7.3 million shares; Fannie Mae rose 7/8, to 30 1/8; BankAmerica 1 1/2, to 21 7/8; Kemper, the insurer, 5/8, to 19 1/2, and General Electric, with huge real estate loans, 7/8, to 53 7/8. Citicorp fell 1/4, to 12 3/8.
Among other financial stocks, A.I.G., the insurer, rose 2 1/2, to 69 3/8; Loews, which owns most of CNA, another big insurer, rose 2 1/2, to 81 3/4; Geico, another big insurer, rose 2 1/4, to 131 1/4, and Wells Fargo, the West Coast banking company, rose 2 1/8, to 47 1/2.
 
 Active Takeover Issue
 Takeover stocks were also active yesterday. Neiman Marcus, the store chain, fell 1 7/8, to 12 3/4, after General Cinema withdrew a bid for the company. Neiman Marcus had been recommending the offer but then rejected it. Wall Street traders guessed that the company now believed the business was worth more than originally believed. Mario Gabelli, head of an investor group, said it had raised its stake to 13.04 percent, from 12 percent.
Square D, the electrical equipment producer that rose 7 3/8 last week on vague rumors that foreign buyers might be interested, rose 2 7/8, to 47 7/8, although traders discounted the rumors.
News Corporation, headed by Rupert Murdoch, the publisher, rose 2 1/8, to 9 1/4. Mr. Murdoch agreed on Friday to merge his Sky Television satellite service with that of the rival British Satellite Broadcasting.
 
 Tokyo Rally Fades
 TOKYO, Tuesday, Nov. 6 (Reuters) -- Stocks closed lower in Tokyo today on thin volume as traders expressed caution over the outcome of elections in the United States. The 225-share Nikkei index lost 419.58 points, or 1.72 percent, to end the day at 2,3965.75.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LTS (NYSE MKT) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (64%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LADENBURG THALMANN FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (64%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (62%); NYSE MKT LLC (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (69%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J RUPERT MURDOCH (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



197 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Saudis to Give Free Hand to U.S. If Attack on the Iraqis Is Approved

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JIDDA, Saudi Arabia, Nov. 5

 BODY:
The United States and Saudi Arabia tightened their pressure on Iraq today by agreeing on new command arrangements they would follow if they mounted an offensive strike, senior American and Saudi officials said.
In a step clearly intended to demonstrate the credibility of American military options, the two sides agreed that any offensive against Iraqi troops in Kuwait, or against Iraq, begun from Saudi territory would be undertaken only after President Bush and King Fahd both gave their approval. 
 But it was agreed that once an attack was authorized by the two political leaders, American forces would be free to plan and execute the attack entirely under their own commanders, without interference from the Saudi military leadership, officials said.
 
Joint Defensive Command
 If Iraq should attack Saudi Arabia and a defensive military operation is required, the two sides agreed that the joint command structure set up since American troops began arriving on Saudi soil in the week after the Iraqi invasion on Aug. 2 would remain in force.
The Saudi-American understanding on command and control was reached in talks tonight between Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and the Saudi Foreign Minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, and King Fahd. The accord is significant for several reasons.
First, it clears away an important obstacle to any military operation against Iraq by reassuring the Saudi leadership that American troops on their soil will not undertake any unilateral offensive, while assuring the American military commander in Saudi Arabia, Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, that if his forces have to take the field against Iraq he will be free to carry out the operation as he deems fit.
Second, the fact that the Saudis would agree to such an arrangement marks a clear development in their internal deliberations. Two months ago, the Saudi Defense Minister, Prince Sultan, declared flatly that Saudi territory could not be used for "offensive" operations against Iraqi forces. And for the first three months of the crisis, the two countries had no firm understanding on how to coordinate any offensive strike.
Third, the decision should enhance the credibility of the mounting threats of force that President Bush has been making to persuade President Saddam Hussein of Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait unconditionally. The understanding is intended to make clear to Iraq that Washington now has a degree of flexibility in using Saudi territory for such an operation.
 
Baker Sees 'a New Phase'
 "This crisis is entering a new phase," Mr. Baker told reporters before today's talks, "and while we are still seeking a peaceful, political and diplomatic solution, we have to, I think, put ourselves in a position where we would be able to exercise any options that might be available. I don't think that we can, nor should we, rule out resort to force, if that should be necessary."
Nevertheless, senior American and Saudi officials insisted that the command-and-control understanding did not foreshadow any imminent offensive military operation.
Both nations said they still wanted to try to work through the United Nations. They apparently agreed in principle to work together in the near future to try to persuade the Security Council to adopt a resolution authorizing the use of force if it is deemed to be the only way to evict Iraq from Kuwait.
Saudi officials said the fact that American troops based in Saudi Arabia would be allowed to operate independently in an offensive should not be read as a signal that no Saudi forces would take part in such an operation.
"We are trying to enhance the United Nations measures that will give us a peaceful solution," a senior Saudi official said. "If that doesn't happen, we will cross that bridge when we come to it. You would be very wrong to leave this place thinking that we have closed the door on diplomacy."
 
Coordination With Americans
 If Saudi Arabia or other nations decide that they want their forces to take part in an offensive against Iraqi troops, they will have to coordinate the operation with the American military.
Officials said Mr. Baker, who goes on Tuesday to Egypt and Turkey, and then on to Moscow, London and Paris, would confer with other key members of the international force confronting Iraq about how they would like to coordinate any offensive. At the moment, each military contingent in Saudi Arabia has its own arrangement with the Saudi Army command.
Explaining today's understanding, a senior American official said of the procedures: "They are different when talking about matters of the defense of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as opposed to elsewhere. If it goes beyond Saudi borders, American commanders will command American troops."
If the operation is offensive, and aimed outside Saudi Arabia, the senior official added, "the authority for planning and approving those types of operations with respect to United States forces will rest with The United States command. There will be an agreement at the highest political level between the two Governments if those kinds of activities are undertaken."
 
Meeting With Kuwaiti Emir
 Before his meeting this evening with Saudi officials, Mr. Baker flew to the Saudi mountain resort of Taif, where he met with the exiled Emir of Kuwait, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah. Speaking to reporters before his talks with Mr. Baker, the Emir said his Government would like to see the Iraqis evicted in any way necessary and as soon as possible.
"As far as I am concerned," Sheik Jaber said, "I would like my country to be liberated today and before tomorrow. I would like to see the liberation of Kuwait as soon as possible, whether through the Security Council or not."
Mr. Baker spent Sunday visiting with American troops of the First Cavalry Division, which is stationed in eastern Saudi Arabia near the border with Iraq.
On the financial front, Mr. Baker told the Emir that the funds that the Kuwaiti leader had committed two months ago to support the military operation in the gulf would be used up by the end of the year. Sheik Jaber promised Mr. Baker that he would make an unspecified commitment of fresh funds for 1991, a senior Administration official said.
The Secretary also asked Sheik Jaber if he would consider providing financial assistance to the fledgling new democracies of Eastern Europe, where fragile economies have been badly hurt by the steep rise in oil prices. Sheik Jaber said he had dispatched a mission to Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary to assess their needs.
Yahya al-Sumait, Kuwait's exiled Minister of Housing, told reporters in Taif that the Kuwaitis were eager to bring the Iraqi invasion to a close before the Iraqis managed to forcibly expel all of Kuwait's citizens.
"We believe that with every day that passes in Kuwait, our people are being humiliated, tortured and killed by the hour," Mr. Sumait said. "This kind of atrocity cannot be tolerated anymore. To us, to our people, inside and outside Kuwait, we need a resolution, a solution, an immediate one."
Already, the Kuwaiti Minister said, 60 to 70 percent of the one million Kuwaitis are outside the country. Most are in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Bahrain or Western Europe.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d meeting with King Fahd in Jidda. Between them was an interpreter. (Reuters) (pg. A1); Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d said the Persian Gulf crisis was entering a "new phase" in which military force would have to be considered.He looked at photographs of Kuwait City yesterday in Taif, Saudi Arabia, where he met with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia and the exiled Emir of Kuwait. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (99%); IRAQ (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (91%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (74%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT ; SAUDI ARABIA; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ; MILITARY STRATEGY AND TACTICS; MILITARY ACTION; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY OPERATIONS (93%); ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; FAHD, KING OF SAUDI ARABIA; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ; SABAH, JABER AL-AHMED AL- (SHEIK) (EMIR); SCHWARZKOPF, H NORMAN (GEN) ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



198 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 The world's airlines agreed to seek fare increases of up to 8 percent on international flights. The carriers said the higher fares, the second round of increases since the Persian Gulf crisis began, are needed to cope with higher fuel costs. [Page D1.]
Sales of U.S.-built cars and trucks rose 8.6 percent in late October, compared with soft sales in the period last year. [D6.] Car dealers that bet on the Japanese push into the luxury-car market are winning big. [D1.]
 
Companies
General Cinema said its deal to acquire the Neiman Marcus shares it does not already own collapsed after part of the Neiman Marcus board withdrew its support. [D1.]
Equitable Real Estate Investment Management is grappling with rising withdrawals of pension money from its managed funds and, like others in the industry, faces growing delinquency rates in its mortgage portfolio. [D1.]
A recent Volvo ad was a phony, the company admits in ads running in several newspapers today. The admission is part of a settlement of a lawsuit bought by the Attorney General of Texas. [D1.]
The performance of NEC's newest SX-3 supercomputer far outstrips its nearest American and Japanese competitors for speeds attained by a single processor system, one expert says. [D4.]
Sun Microsystems introduced a new family of powerful computer work stations with an improved ability to draw and move images around on the screen. [D4.]
Businessland reported that it lost $19.9 million for the quarter, on $308.9 million in sales. [D4.]
Prudential-Bache will settle charges stemming from a series of cases under investigation by the New York Stock Exchange, according to an internal memorandum from the firm. [D14.]
The S.E.C. charged a former Smith Barney broker with insider trading based on information in Business Week. [D17.]
The editor of The Daily News, struggling to fill vital newsroom jobs, began telephoning minority journalists' groups to ask their help in recruiting permanent replacements. [B4.]
MCI and British Telecom said they would build a high-capacity telephone cable under the Atlantic. [D4.]
 
 International
Unless the European Community immediately presents proposals for cutting farm subsidies, the entire four-year round of world trade talks may be in jeopardy, a group of leading farm trading nations said. [D2.]
 
 Markets
Oil prices dropped $2.04, to $31.96, as traders' fear of normal supplies began to overpower the fear of war. [D1.]
Stocks rose for the third straight session but trading activity lagged. The Dow tacked on 11.39, to 2,502.23. [D8.]
A Citicorp downgrade helped keep the credit market rally alive, as prices of Treasury securities rose and interest rates fell. [D15.]
The dollar fell sharply, reaching record lows against the mark and the Swiss franc. [D16.]
Soybean futures prices sagged to three-month lows amid disappointment over export sales. [D16.]
 
 Today's Columns
Medicaid changes voted by Congress are expected to cost drug makers at least $3.4 billion over five years in rebates. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
For Coast Savings of California, the next few quarters will be crucial. Market Place. [D8.]
Goldstar has begun a campaign, estimated to cost $15 million, telling people it understands the frustration of not being able to program a VCR. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIR FARES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); WRITERS (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); INSIDER TRADING (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); LAWYERS (68%); CURRENCIES (68%); FUTURES (68%); LITIGATION (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (60%); NEW CAR DEALERS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



199 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Equitable Real Estate Unit Is Vulnerable but Confident

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
Cracks are starting to appear in the portfolio of the nation's largest investor of real estate assets for pension funds. Equitable Real Estate Investment Management Inc., a unit of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, is grappling with rising withdrawals of pension money from its managed funds and, like others in the industry, faces growing delinquency rates in its mortgage portfolio.
At a time when mortgage delinquencies are expected to begin rising sharply, Equitable Life has about $12.1 billion invested in commercial real estate mortgages for its own account, a major portion of its $44.9 billion in assets. 
 On top of that, Equitable Life is already struggling with the debacle of the high-interest investment securities it sold throughout the 1980's. The fall in interest rates has hurt the insurance giant's ability to make enough money to cover those commitments and it will probably lose more than $1 billion as it continues to make those payments. In addition, potential losses on the company's $3.9 billion portfolio of "junk bonds" could add to its troubles.
Even so, none of Equitable Life's problems are likely to affect its ability to meet insurance policy claims. Equitable Life is one of the nation's remaining mutual insurance companies. It is owned by its policyholders rather than public shareholders.
Two weeks ago, Equitable Real Estate raised eyebrows when it put a partnership in which it was the general partner into bankruptcy. That prompted speculation in the industry that the move signified the beginning of an aggressive housecleaning.
According to the real estate unit's top management, the bankruptcy of this partnership was an isolated incident. "That is the only tax-oriented, high-leverage partnership transaction of its kind in our portfolio," said George R. Puskar, chairman of Equitable Real Estate, referring to changes in the tax law in 1986 that made real estate partnerships less attractive. "After that investment was made, many of the senior people made a conscious decision that we would not pursue that kind of business and so it was a stand-alone situation."
The company says neither the recent sales or planned sales of some of its properties nor the bankruptcy filing should be construed as a sign that it is tightening oversight, but that its portfolio review process is functioning as usual.
"The current market conditions are no surprise to us," Mr. Puskar said. "We started sending the caution signals in 1986, and we have been culling out problems in our equity portfolio for some time now."
Many industry experts say that in all likelihood Equitable Real Estate will weather the industry turbulence.
With more than $35 billion in assets under management, Equitable Real Estate, which is based in Atlanta, is the leading manager of pension fund money invested in real estate and is one of the biggest sources of financing for the nation's developers.
 
 $24 Billion in Investments
 The company's nearly 550 professionals manage a portfolio of $24 billion in equity real estate investments and more than $11 billion in mortgages. It has equity interests in about 800 properties, including about 51 million square feet of industrial space, 76 million square feet of office space, 63 million square feet of retail space and nearly 20,000 hotel rooms.
Although its insurance parent has been struggling to cut costs and improve its profit, the real estate unit, which generated a modest 8 percent increase in pretax profits in 1989, has been spared along with the other investment subsidiaries.
"Our business is growing," Mr. Puskar said. "We have not had to cut on the people side of the equation, but we have made cuts on the overhead and expense side."
Still, like every other major investor in the country's faltering real estate market, the Equitable unit is vulnerable. Only weeks ago, John Portman, a large developer, was forced to give up control of Peachtree Center, a huge office and retail complex in Atlanta, after he failed to make payments on a $333 million Equitable mortgage.
The company's main investment fund, the $3.8 billion Prime Property Fund, has already refunded $140 million to investors this year and 33 investors recently asked to redeem an additional $330 million.
Prime, which invests in regional shopping malls, industrial projects and office space, does not have enough cash on hand to meet those requests, and company executives estimate that it will take about 12 months before it can meet them.
Equitable Real Estate executives say the company's delinquency rate on commercial mortgages has remained stable at about 1 percent for the last few years and they do not expect it to rise sharply.
 
 A Growing Problem
 But delinquencies among commercial mortgages, the underwriting standards on many of which deteriorated during the building boom of the mid-1980's, are expected to pose a growing problem for insurance companies over the next three or four years. Falling real estate values and rental incomes can make it impossible for developers to make their debt payments. And if the market value of these properties falls below the value of the underlying mortgage, developers may be tempted to simply hand over the deeds to the mortgage holders instead of making payments, as is allowed under their contracts.
The problem could be exacerbated if interest rates rise. Billions of dollars of such mortgages will mature over the next several years, and if they are rolled over at a higher rate buildings will face an even tougher time meeting mortgage payments.
Equitable Real Estate says it is cutting its ties with troublesome projects. "We are actively going over these loans and asking ourselves whether we want to roll them over," Mr. Puskar said.

GRAPHIC: Chart showing the percentages of retail, office, industrial, hotel and other, for Equitable Real Estate Investment Management. (source: Company Reports) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EQM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY (94%); EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUITABLE REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC

SUBJECT: PENSIONS; MORTGAGES; REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); TAX LAW (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (52%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990



200 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2266 words

HEADLINE: Ventures Test Rival Ways to Recreate the World in a Spacecraft

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
AS space enthusiasts in Arizona prepare to seal themselves inside an eight-story, $100 million greenhouse for two years, an event tourists can commemorate with T-shirts and other memorabilia purchased at the nearby gift shop, the scientific field that parallels ther endeavor has been making quiet progress beyond the limelight.
Both ventures are bids at futuristic recycling, studying how green plants can take human wastes (urine, feces and carbon dioxide) and turn them into oxygen, water and food for humans living in closed spaces. The result would be a closed, independent, self-contained system in which plants would provide all material sustenance for the humans, including food. 
 The ultimate aim of both groups is to help astronauts cut supply lines to Earth and roam the universe at will. That is no mere fantasy: the White House's bold plans to return to the Moon and venture onward to Mars may require just such recycling.
But while ends of the two groups are similar, the means to achieve them are very different, illustrating the divergent paths science can take. The contrasting methods are partly a result of different types of financing, one private, the other public. But while the Government has traditionally pursued far out ideas, with industry lagging behind, space-age entrepreneurs in this case are boldly going where no one has gone before.
In Oracle, Ariz., the four men and four women of Biosphere 2 (they refer to the Earth as Biosphere 1) are entering a realm more akin to Noah's ark than a laboratory. Their exotic, 3.15-acre, glass-enclosed habitat, containing some 3,800 species of plants (as well as fish, chickens, goats and pigs), is to produce all their physical needs for two years, starting early next year. It is to be a little Eden or Shangri-La. All are single and free to form whatever relationships they wish. Their dream is to erect such a structure on Mars.
Biosphere 2 is a privately financed, all-or-nothing experiment. The glass habitat, which is to last a century, is so expensive and bold that no government or scientific center would be likely to pioneer one.
In contrast, scientists at universities and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration are taking a more traditional, step-by-step approach that centers on first mastering the basics of plant-human relationships, usually by focusing on a single plant, and then applying those insights to the design of small systems that could enter space far sooner than the mammoth structures of the Arizona group. Their life-support systems could be used in space stations, ships or planetary outposts. The NASA scientists have been at it for more than a decade, and their work has been picking up speed of late.
Genetic engineers at Purdue University are now working to improve the productivity of candidate plant species. Researchers at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida are growing wheat under artificial light in a closed chamber, achieving up to 80 percent of the growth in sunlight. And soil scientists at the Johnson Space Center in Houston are raising lettuce in mock lunar soil, seeing what might prosper at a Moon outpost.
The two groups keep close tabs on one another, partly out of friendly rivalry. "It comes down to what is science, and what are the right questions to ask," said Dr. Robert D. MacElroy, chief scientist of the advanced life support division at the space agency's Ames Research Center in California.
The Biosphere 2 project, run by Space Biosphere Ventures, a private ecological research firm, says its vision to create a complex ecosystem from scratch is just as scientific but more holistic. Its aim, according to a company brochure, is to "greatly enhance our understanding of our present biosphere" and pioneer the "means of establishing permanent stations in space or on other planets as research bases and eventually settlements."
Kathleen A. Dyhr, a Space Biosphere spokeswoman, said the distinction between the two groups was "systematists versus reductionists," or experts who look at whole systems versus ones who break them into component parts, adding that "war between these schools of thought has been going on for a long time." The Biosphere approach, she said, mimicked the complexity of the planet and sought to better understand that intricacy.
"With the Earth, we have a lot of detailed information on the parts but don't know how it all fits together," Ms. Dyhr said. The group says even a life-support failure (they joke about everything turning into green slime) would be a qualified success, since much would be learned in the process.
Dr. Arthur W. Galston, a Yale University botanist who advises the NASA program, said the Arizona group was "flaky" but provocative. "They're looking at areas that haven't been looked at before," he said.
Both efforts were ultimately important, Dr. Galston said, "because they're a paradigm of what man here on Earth has to face" in years ahead. "We have a burgeoning population," he said, "a decline of arable land, and waste heaps that are growing continuously. We have to find ways of producing more food in less space to feed more mouths, with less nonrecyclable refuse. This work is going to have a lot of civilian spinoffs."
 
Keeping Astronauts Alive
 Today, the usual way of keeping astronauts alive in space is with a continuous supply of food, water and air. On the space shuttle, oxygen and nitrogen are mixed into artificial air. After breathing, this mixture is passed through canisters that remove exhaled carbon dioxide.
Also aboard the shuttle are fuel cells that mix oxygen and hydrogen to produce electrical power and drinking water. Excess water vapor in cabin air is condensed and placed in waste tanks. Liquid wastes like urine, perspiration and lung vapor are periodically shot into space. Solid wastes, including feces and vomit, are exposed to the vacuum of space for drying and stored aboard the spacecraft.
The economic penalties for what NASA calls its "physico-chemical" life support system add up fairly quickly. The average astronaut needs about 10 pounds of consumables every day, including 1.3 pounds of food, 6.27 pounds of water and 1.76 pounds of oxygen. Because of these and other demands that tax storage space, shuttle missions are usually limited to about 10 days. Moreover, the cost of shipping these supplies into space is high, running about $5,000 a pound.
NASA's planned space station, which would be manned year round, will need huge amounts of fresh supplies on a continuous basis. Studies show that if life-support equipment weighs 5 tons at first deployment, the total weight will reach nearly 10 tons after the first year, nearly 15 tons after the second, nearly 20 tons after the third, and so on.
In theory, "bioregenerative" life support could cut that climb. The initial investment would be greater, owing to the greater bulk of plants and a larger array of equipment. For instance, bioregenerative life-support equipment might weigh 12 tons at deployment rather than 5 tons, according to contractor studies. But, in theory, hardly anything else would be needed -- certainly no food, water or oxygen -- once the apparatus was installed and running.
Many billions of dollars would be saved for long missions like that of the space station, which is to operate for more than three decades. Indeed, bioregenerative life support, with technology now on the horizon, is seen as being cheaper than the physico-chemical alternative for any space mission whose duration is slightly longer than a year.
Such considerations prompted NASA to start an effort to master bioregenerative life support in the late 1970's. But there was little enthusiasm within the agency's upper ranks. The program went against the can-do, hard-edged, mechanistic philosophy of many NASA officials, who quietly dismissed it as mushy and ecological.
"Fundamentally," recalled Dr. MacElroy of NASA's Ames center, "there was a philosophical resistance, a feeling that hard machines had done it in the past" and would do it in the future.
 
Aims of Program
 But the bioregenerative program, which received some $30 million in the last decade, nonetheless made headway. The goals have mainly been to develop plant-growth equipment and to evaluate different species and improve their productivity by such means as raising carbon dioxide levels and growing temperatures. This work, done mainly at NASA-financed universities, has found wheat to be an especially good candidate.
At the space center in Florida, work got under way in 1985 to apply these lessons to a closed test. Completed in 1987, the growth chamber, 24 feet high and 11 feet wide, has now grown five crops of wheat, two of soybeans, and is scheduled to try lettuce, rice, peanuts as well as sweet potatoes. Researchers are also working to make meals out of candidate plants and to find efficient ways to process wastes back into fertilizer and other usable products.
At Kennedy, a feeding method known as thin-film hydroponics uses water about an eighth of an inch deep rather than soil to carry nutrients. So far, scientists have used regular plant food rather than human wastes.
Starting this year, they plan to slowly introduce human liquid wastes for nutrients, and later human-type waste gases to the air. By 1993, their chamber should be able to chemically mimic the consumption and excretion of one person. If financing materializes, the scientists hope to build a new experimental apparatus in 1995 that would house three to four human volunteers for full-fledged tests.
Dr. William M. Knott 3d, who directs the work at Kennedy, said aspects of it might be tested in space as soon as 1991 on flights of the space shuttle, with attention focusing on a zero-gravity nutrient membrane that is seen as solving the vexing problems of weightlessness by feeding plant roots directly. But perfecting the whole recycling idea might take decades, he cautioned.
"Bioregenerative life support is in such a stage of infancy right now that we don't have the technology base or science base to predict how or when it's going to be done," Dr. Knott said. "You can make guesses. But you're almost trying to predict when you're going to cure cancer."
At the Johnson center in Houston, researchers are gambling that the work will eventually be needed on the Moon. Dr. Donald L. Henninger, a soil scientist there, has grown several crops of wheat and lettuce on mock lunar soil. Getting nutrients to plants would be easier on the Moon than in free space, he said, because its mild gravity would help localize liquid nutrients and the lunar soil would make for good, low-cost root support.
 
Much to Learn
 But he too warned that the effort was tentative. "We know very little," Dr. Henninger said. "We've got lots of work ahead of us."
NASA recently expanded its effort, awarding a five-year, $5 million grant to a nine-member scientific team from Purdue University. Dr. Cary A. Mitchell, its leader, said that one aim was for genetic engineers to alter the balance of amino acids, or protein building blocks, in candidate plants to increase their food value.
In contrast to the plodding NASA effort, the Biospherians in Arizona want recycling achieved in one fell swoop. They are being bankrolled by Edward Bass, a wealthy Texan.
Their hope is that the sheer diversity of their project will protect them from ecological disaster on Earth, from chemical distortions in the air, water or soil that could destroy their Eden. Beneath the glass domes are five climatic zones -- rain forest, desert, savanna, ocean and intensive agriculture -- meant to mimic the Earth's diversity and be a protective buffer for the eight Biospherians., as they call themselves.
Uncertainties are legion, its architects agree. No one, for instance, knows exactly how many of the 3,800 species of plants, selected to provide a rich, miniature version of the climatic zones, will survive for the two years. Many plants are likely to die off as the domes are closed off from the Earth's atmosphere and the internal environment strikes its own unique balance.
To curb some uncertainties, the recycling effort is to receive a huge massive influx of technological aid. Beneath tropical plants and flowers lie mechanical parts that look like a battleship's engine room, the masses of pipes and pumps and fans meant to cool and filter the air, store water, recycle human and animal waste and move the structure's air as it expands and contracts with changing temperatures during the day and night.
The Arizona site has a 3.7-megawatt power plant to provide the recycling effort with much-needed electricity.
 
Questions Are Raised
 Some scientists question the method's rigor, saying too many variables have been left untested and too much confidence has been placed in its ability to regulate its own processes.
Dr. Charles F. Hutchinson, associate director of the Office of Arid Lands Studies at the University of Arizona, described the project as "a scientific crapshoot." The main criticism, he said, is "their top-down approach to the science, in which you take a bunch of components, throw them all together, shake them up and hope everything will work in the end."
"It's more fun than science," he said. "It's virtually impossible to do that kind of research with government funding."
The Biospherians say their effort is just as legitimate and perhaps more important than the NASA work, since it promises to unlock some of the Earth's ecological secrets.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Biosphere 2 in Oracle, Ariz., where eight people plan to spend two years. The eight-story complex covers 3.15 acres and will contain 3,800 species of plants, as well as a variet of animals. The glass-enclosed environment costs about $100 million. (Gil Kenny for The New York Times) (pg. C1); Diagrams (pg. C11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0069 (HKSE) (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (93%); EARTH (92%); MARS (90%); 

COMPANY: SHANGRI-LA ASIA LTD (53%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SPACECRAFT (84%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); SPACE STATIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1990

 
