

1001 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2012

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Nine Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of The New Yorker

BYLINE: ILENA SILVERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The nine things I learned from reading this week's New Yorker, cover to cover. 

 BODY:
Let's first dispense with the question of whether I really read one of the 55,000 words in this week's New Yorker. All I can say is I tried. One of my favorite discoveries was a quote from Walt Frazier. As a girl growing up in New York City, I was obsessed with the Knicks guard. Back then you could write him a worshipful letter, care of the Garden, and get back a signed black-and-white photo. Once before a home game, my friend Paul and I saw him on the street after he got out of his Rolls. We asked him for his autograph - two adoring 12-year-olds offering up a couple of pieces of lined paper - and he told us he was only signing copies of a book about him that recently had been published, and then he turned away. I still loved him. But it was hard not to harbor a grudge. And then came all those years of his jangling play-by-play commentary. But I couldn't help but feel a new sense of tenderness when he explained himself in Talk of the Town: "When I was a player, I rarely read anything, unless it was about me. Now I get The Times Arts & Leisure section, where they critique the plays: Riveting! Mesmerizing! Provocative! Profound! Dazzling! All these different words. I like the way they sound, so I write them down and use them."
O.K., enough '70s New York nostalgia - on to current things:
The Recession Can Kill - America
"Many studies have shown that the lifetime earnings of workers who become unemployed during a recession are permanently reduced . . . mortality rates among laid-off workers were much higher than average even 20 years afterward."
So Can Unequal Income Distribution - China
"The gap between rich and poor has become so inflammatory and unsustainable that the Chinese government has simply stopped releasing an official measure of the distribution of wealth. (Unofficial studies now put China's inequality beyond the point that a former prime minister once estimated would trigger social unrest.)"
Raw Milk Outlaws
"Raw milk is the new pot, only harder to get."
"Drinking raw milk, [advocates] say, confers numerous health benefits - vitality, digestive vigor, strong teeth, clear skin - and even has the power to treat serious ailments such as diabetes, cancer and autism. . . . There has been little science to support these claims. The closest thing to an objective body of data appeared last August, with the publication of a large-sample study linking children's consumption of unheated 'farm milk' to reduced rates of asthma and allergies."
"Lately, raw milk has found political support in the somewhat unexpected quarter: among Tea Partiers and libertarians."
South African Violence
Initially, the main mission of the A.N.C.'s guerrilla force (MK) "was sabotage, blowing up government infrastructure, and an effort was made not to kill anyone in the process. But two decades later MK was killing without compunction - grenades would be bowled into a Wimpy Bar burger joint, or a trip-wired limpet mine planted in an amusement arcade - and Mandela did not object."
The Stanford Innovation-Industrial Complex
"Stanford's Office of Technology Licensing has licensed 8,000 campus-inspired inventions and has generated $1.3 billion in royalties for the university."
"34,000 high-school seniors applied for Stanford's current freshman class, and only 2,400 - 7 percent - were accepted."

        
A Bunch of Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of Sports Illustrated
        
Four Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of Real Simple
        
Six Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of New York Magazine
        
Six Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of Vice
        
Eight Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of The Economist

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RECESSION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); CHILDREN (75%); LAYOFFS (68%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (68%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); ASTHMA (60%); AUTISM (50%); DIABETES (50%) every last word; New Yorker; new yorker walk frazier

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1002 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: How One Hospital Bent the Cost Curve

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: Many economists and specialists think that changes made by insurers, hospitals and doctors to emphasize the quality of care rather than the quantity of care is a factor in slowing health care costs, and Children's Hospital Boston offers a good test case. 

 BODY:
In an article in The Times on Sunday, I look at whether there is more than meets the eye in the slowdown in health care costs. 
Economists anticipated that the recession and sluggish recovery would depress the rate of growth. But the slowdown was more than they expected, prompting a debate about whether doctors and patients are doing the seemingly impossible: bending the cost curve years before the most aggressive cost-saving provisions of the Affordable Care Act, the Obama health care law, come into effect. 
Many economists and health policy specialists think that changes made by insurers, hospitals and doctors to emphasize the quality of care rather than the quantity of care is a major factor, and Children's Hospital Boston offers a good test case.

Children's is a Harvard-affiliated research institution that treats many of the region's sickest children and spends a lot of money doing so. But about four years ago, the hospital recognized the growth in costs as unsustainable - as many institutions in Massachusetts did after the state passed an individual mandate law.
"We knew that by design the coverage law was not intended to focus on the cost or affordability issue," said Andrew Dreyfus, the president of the nonprofit Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts, the state's largest private provider of health insurance. "Massachusetts was both an expensive state and a state where health care costs were growing rapidly - we had a high base and a high trend. We knew that if we were going to be able to sustain the reforms, we needed to deal with the cost issue." 
Children's went on a campaign to scrub unnecessary costs from the system while maintaining its renowned quality of care. It first tackled internal costs, said Sandra Fenwick, the chief operating officer of Children's. It looked at things like space utilization and spending on energy, and made the operation more efficient. 
Then, it tackled patient care, trimming unnecessary procedures and focusing on efficiency and preventative care. If you are a child with asthma, a nurse might come inspect your house and advise your parents to look into new mattresses, that could reduce the chance that you will end up in the emergency room with an attack. If you are a teenager with cancer, doctors might recommend that you receive intravenous hydration at home, rather than in a care facility. Children's also opened satellite offices to keep patients out of the higher-cost downtown hospital.
All in all, the hospital made more than 100 changes and cut tens of millions of dollars in costs, Ms. Fenwick said. It not only reoriented itself to focus on quality, rather than quantity. It has started renegotiating its contracts with insurers to move away from fee-for-service medicine. 
In January, it signed a contract with Blue Cross Blue Shield that pays it for how well it cares for patients, rather than the number of procedures performed. This year, the deal includes a zero percent rate increase - and the hospital is meeting its benchmarks thus far, Ms. Fenwick said. 
Children's is not the only hospital making such dramatic changes in how it approaches costs and care. Indeed, doctors providing care to about 77 percent of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts members have signed on to such "alternative quality contract" agreements, giving them an incentive to prevent readmissions, cut out unnecessary procedures and otherwise reduce spending.
"We've had to convince skeptical institutions that we're not taking away their margin," Mr. Dreyfus said. "We're just saying, 'Don't make your money on volume. Make it on quality.'" 

        
The Options for Payment Reform in U.S. Health Care
        
Health Care Payers Push Back Against Costs
        
To Control Health Care Costs, Trace the Spending
        
How Much Fraud and Abuse Is There in U.S. Health Care?
        
Reader Response: Would Hospital Price Controls Cause Care Shortages?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CANCER (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ASTHMA (50%) health care; Hospitals; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Children's Hospital Boston

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012



1003 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Power Struggle

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and summary of the president's weekly address, plus stories from around the Web and a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
Many Senate seats are up for grabs in November, but no other race appears to be as evenly matched as the Virginia race between George Allen, a Republican, and Tim Kaine, a Democrat, Jonathan Weisman writes. Both Mr. Allen and Mr. Kaine are former governors with near-universal name recognition, rich campaign war chests and national patrons, and the outcome of the contest will be critical to the balance of power in Washington.

        
The Obama administration has made a concerted, if to some indecorous, effort to trumpet the killing of Osama bin Laden as perhaps the central accomplishment of President Obama's presidency, Peter Baker and Michael D. Shear report. Few presidents have talked about the killing of an individual enemy in such an expansive way, with the raid on the house in Abbottabad, Pakistan, a more favorable story for the president politically than the latest economic report showing slow growth in the first quarter.

        
The House ignored a veto threat from President Obama on Friday and voted to prevent a doubling of student loan rates, Jennifer Steinhauer reports. The bill would cut into the health care law to pay to keep rates on subsidized undergraduate loans at 3.4 percent, putting the new law again at the center of a debate in Congress.

        
Mitt Romney is trying to overcome his problem with Hispanic voters, and after having taken a hawkish stance on immigration during the primary season, he and his campaign are trying to shift the debate to what they feel will be friendlier terrain - jobs, Trip Gabriel reports.
Weekly Address

        
President Obama used his weekly address to announce a new executive order requiring college officials to offer counseling and help for veterans and service members looking to finish their degree, even if they have to move or deploy. "We're making sure veterans and service members get a simple fact sheet called 'Know Before You Owe' that lays out all the information they need about financial aid and paying for college," Mr. Obama said. "And we're stepping up our efforts to fight dishonest recruiters by strengthening rules about who can come on base and making it easier to file complaints." Helping members of the military afford college is part of a long American tradition, he said, but more could be done to provide them with the tools needed to make an informed decision. The measure announced by the president also aims to curb predatory recruiting, citing incidents of students being steered toward high-interest loans and misled about job placement programs. "One of the worst examples was a college recruiter who visited a Marine barracks and enrolled Marines with brain injuries so severe that some of them couldn't recall what courses the recruiter had signed them up for," he said. "That's appalling. It's disgraceful. And even though the vast majority of schools do the right thing, we need to guard against the bad actors who don't."
Around the Web

        
State Department employees who brought their children along for "Take Your Child to Work Day" have some explaining to do, as reporters asked mature questions regarding the Secret Service sex scandal during the day's media briefing, Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
The comedian Jimmy Fallon will headline the White House Correspondents' dinner on Saturday.

        
Families with young children will be able to board a spaceship and learn about bug cooking at the second annual U.S.A. Science & Engineering Festival and Book Fair.

        
The Early Word: No Rush
        
The Early Word: Milestone
        
The Early Word: Tryouts
        
The Early Word: Waste
        
The Weekend Word: Cash

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (87%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); BRAIN (67%); HEALTH CARE LAW (66%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%); MILITARY BASES (65%); BRAIN INJURIES (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: TIM KAINE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012



1004 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: The Calming Effect Of Central Banks

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
EUROPE is hitting another rough patch. But this time, the troubles have barely rattled world financial markets. That's a huge change.
Even though events in the United States precipitated some of the most acute stages of the 2007-8 financial crisis -- the Lehman Brothers collapse is a prime example -- the crisis in Europe has been the fulcrum on which world markets have pivoted over the last couple of years.
''We've seen world markets trade in unison to an astonishing degree,'' said Stacy Williams, an HSBC strategist in London, in a telephone conversation last week. ''Worries about the risk of a meltdown in Europe have been the main factor in the risk-on, risk-off phenomenon.'' Global markets are tightly synchronized, he said, and they are still moving up and down primarily in reaction to short-term risk assessments. 
For the moment, however, they haven't responded dramatically to events in Europe, one way or another. It's as if traders can't decide whether to add to their bets or head for the exits. For now, at least, markets are moving sideways.
It's not as if the European economy is suddenly flourishing. To the contrary. Government statistics released in London last week, for example, suggested that Britain's fiscal austerity program has helped to plunge that country back into recession. While there are pockets of prosperity, the economy of the European Union as a whole contracted in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to Eurostat. Many forecasters believe that a recession in the region is under way.
Economic pain and fiscal austerity led to the fall of the Dutch government last week, and are threatening the chances of Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, in next weekend's runoff against Francois Hollande, the Socialist candidate. Sovereign bond yields in Spain, which finds itself at the heart of the euro zone crisis, are testing the 6 percent level, a sure sign of serious trouble. Bailouts are already under way in Greece, Ireland and Portugal, while Italy remains in a precarious state.
But how have world markets reacted to all this? With a sigh and a collective shrug. Stocks rose last week in London, Paris and Frankfurt, and with the help of reassuring comments from the Federal Reserve, they did in New York as well.
Larry Kantor, head of research for Barclays, said the European Central Bank is largely responsible for the benign market response to Europe's latest troubles. Through March, he said, the central bank has injected 1.153 trillion euros, approximately $1.52 trillion, into the European banking system, and much of that money has been used to buy sovereign debt, driving down yields and reducing some pressure on embattled governments and on the region's broader economy.
''In November there was the risk of a real credit freeze,'' Mr. Kantor said. Lack of bank lending actually ''tipped the euro area into recession,'' he said. ''The injection by the E.C.B. was very important, and it really takes a lot of that disaster scenario off the table.''
He said that Europe would be struggling to resolve its financial problems for years, but that the ''pragmatic'' approach of the European Central Bank under its new president, Mario Draghi, has given the markets much comfort.
''For the short term, at least,'' he said, ''much of the tail risk has been removed.''
NONE of which is to minimize the fundamental challenges ahead for Europe, where frictions are mounting over the wisdom of the prevailing orthodoxy of fiscal austerity aimed at bringing down government debt loads.
In France, Mr. Hollande favors including a more Keynesian solution, involving government stimulus aimed at promoting growth and government revenue. Mr. Draghi, who has been firmly in the austerity camp, last week shifted his rhetoric modestly, calling for a ''growth compact'' in parallel with the European Union's fiscal treaty, which limits budget deficits and national debt.
''We need to actively step up our reflections about the longer-term vision for Europe as we have done in the past at other defining moments in the history of our union,'' Mr. Draghi told members of the European Parliament in Brussels. But he made it clear that he envisioned ''structural reforms'' intended to make European economies more competitive, rather than greater government spending. That is an approach that Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, also favors.
The United States faces similar issues, of course, but its economy, while hardly robust, is now growing more rapidly than most of Europe's. Gross domestic product rose at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the first quarter, according to Commerce Department figures released on Friday. That's less than Wall Street had expected.
The economy is weak enough that Fed policy makers on Wednesday reiterated their commitment to hold short-term interest rates, now near zero, at ''exceptionally low levels'' for an extended period. They didn't embark on any new unorthodox programs to stimulate the economy, but according to Barclays calculations, the Fed's various quantitative easing efforts expanded its balance sheet by $2.35 trillion.
These balance-sheet operations, on top of the rock-bottom interest rates, have had an extremely stimulative effect, amounting to the theoretical equivalent of a Fed benchmark interest rate of approximately negative 4 percent, according to Thomas Lam, an economist at the OSK-DMG Group in Singapore.
Clearly, Fed policy makers remain on high alert, although their assessment of the domestic economy was slightly more upbeat than their previous forecast, in January. On average, they predicted last week that G.D.P. would grow 2.65 percent in 2012, an increase of 0.2 percentage point from their January estimate. The inflation rate will remain under the Fed's target of 2 percent for the year, they estimated, and the unemployment rate will drop slightly, to 7.9 percent from its current 8.2 percent, according to Fed figures compiled by UBS Investment Research.
In a news conference on Wednesday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said the central bank ''will not hesitate'' to take further action as needed to support the economy. Mr. Kantor said the markets might view that promise as ''a kind of extension of the Bernanke put'' -- a guarantee of intervention should data deteriorate sharply -- which should give traders some solace.
With election campaigns under way in the United States as well as in Europe, major new economic initiatives are unlikely for now, whether they amount to fiscal austerity or fiscal stimulus. If the markets remain calm in the interim, it may be mainly thanks to the influence of the central banks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: British government data suggested last week that a fiscal austerity program has helped send the nation back into recession. Above, a closing-down sale is declared at a London store. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY RAIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); EURO (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); EURO CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BONDS (75%); BOND MARKETS (73%); EURO ZONE (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%); STATISTICS (65%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1005 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: A Different Intersection Of Church and Politics

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
On Tuesday afternoon, on the steps of Federal Hall, in Lower Manhattan, where Occupy Wall Street protesters have been contained in recent weeks, Loren Hart, a conservatively dressed man of 33, sat reading a newspaper as he held a sign that gave quiet expression to pervasive grievances: ''The economy is failing us. Our climate is worsening every day. Perhaps we should make some serious changes.'' Mr. Hart arrived in New York from North Carolina in October to join the Occupy movement with the expectation that he would stay a few days, but he has felt unmotivated to leave.
Issue-specific protests are now so ubiquitous on the menu of New York experience that Mr. Hart has had plenty to do since the police cleared Zuccotti Park of demonstrators in November. Last week had him rallying in Union Square to denounce the rise of student debt. Several days earlier he was arrested at the Brooklyn Supreme Court for participating in an action organized in part by Karen Gargamelli, a Queens housing lawyer who sought to disrupt foreclosure auctions by gathering demonstrators to sing during them. Two weeks ago, 63 arrests were made in a series of these disturbances around the city (which take place under the banner Organizing for Occupation), and many of those hauled off were, like Mr. Hart and Ms. Gargamelli, members of the Catholic Worker Movement. 
May 1 marks the 79th anniversary of Dorothy Day's great achievement: a movement whose vision of activist faith couldn't be farther from the moralizing of the religious right that has seemed to define Christianity's incursion on politics since the 1980s. The Catholic Worker, which Day founded with Peter Maurin, a French immigrant, was -- and remains -- a philosophy, a social initiative, a way of life. Its understanding of personal responsibility maintains not that we all must rely on ourselves, but rather that we are all beholden to better the lives of the less fortunate. On May 1, 1933, during the height of the Great Depression, Day took to Union Square handing out the first copies of her newspaper, also called The Catholic Worker, which delivered the message of compassion and justice at the cost of one penny; the price has never gone up.
The movement has always sought ''a new society in the shell of the old'' -- peace, less disparity of wealth, an end to economic exploitation, violence, racism and so on. Its goals can seem broad but its methods are intimate and practical. Around the country and in various parts of the world, Catholic Worker communities exist as households where lay members, typically committed to voluntary poverty, often live among the homeless and needy they are aiding. It is a model for Occupy Wall Street -- like that more recent movement, it is decentralized and decisions are largely made by consensus -- which has said it will hold protests around the country on Tuesday, historically a significant day for the labor movement. There are no headquarters or board of directors and, since Day's death in 1980, no leader. Things have hardly faded: in the past 17 years, the number of communities has grown from 134 to more than 210.
The oldest of these is in New York --in two buildings in the East Village, one primarily for men, the other for women -- and a visit there offers lessons in the kind of radical empathy we rarely get to witness. Mr. Hart lives among 25 or so mostly homeless men at the St. Joseph House on East First Street. Every Friday he cooks for the 80 to 200 nonresidents who show up each weekday for a midmorning meal.
Among the live-in volunteers at St. Joseph is Megan Fincher, who, at 29, having completed college (at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where Day studied) and graduate school, decided to devote herself to the movement. She had long considered becoming a nun, but her own spirit was more anarchical. She cooks, visits residents in the hospital, disperses clothes and laundry, and stocks and handles donations (nearly everything in the house is donated). She has a few clothes of her own, a used laptop with no Internet access, a cellphone given to her by her mother and little else. Her friends -- corporate lawyers, editors, agents -- experience a more dramatically familiar Manhattan life. When I asked her if she felt she was missing any of that, she said that as someone who loves good food, she occasionally misses going to restaurants.
The men's residence, where Ms. Fincher lives, harbors a number of unmedicated schizophrenics, but she doesn't keep a lock on the door to her room. She has never felt unsafe, she told me. ''Being a Catholic means following the example of Jesus,'' she said. ''And I don't know how to do those things in this society. Jesus says, 'Come follow me.' How do you do that with a job and an apartment?''
It is this vision of Catholicism that has come so maddeningly under review by the church establishment. Two weeks ago the Vatican reprimanded American nuns, dozens of whom had broken with bishops in support of health care reform two years ago, for focusing too heavily on poverty and social inequality at the expense of decrying abortion and same-sex marriage. Miraculously, Rome's ingratitude hasn't caused those ministering at St. Joseph's to pack it up and head to Babbo.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PROTESTING: Above, Loren Hart, a member of the Catholic Worker Movement, on Thursday. Left, Union Square on May 1, 1933. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); RELIGION (86%); ARRESTS (74%); LAWYERS (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (67%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); AUCTIONS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); RACE & RACISM (63%); GREAT DEPRESSION (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1006 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2012 TOYOTA CAMRY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: People's Choice Returns With Apps and Adele

BYLINE: By EZRA DYER

 BODY:
AS a car-buying choice, the Toyota Camry is like the ''ask the audience'' lifeline on ''Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?'' The Camry, the best-selling car in America for 13 of the last 14 years, represents the wisdom of the crowd, a safe harbor for those who just aren't that interested in cars.
Driving a Camry is akin to eating at a chain restaurant, drinking a Bud Light and watching the latest summer blockbuster. Sometimes you simply want to put your money on the known quantity without thinking too much about it.
And yet, just as beer snobs will try to foist their home-brew upon the contented light-beer drinker, I feel the quixotic urge to enlighten the Camry-driving masses to their more flavorful options. 
People, have you seen the new Ford Fusion? It looks like an Aston Martin. How about a Kia Optima with a turbocharged engine and a 100,000-mile powertrain warranty? Are you aware of the Volkswagen Passat diesel? Off the top of my head, all three cars are more intriguing than the Camry. And yet, if there are so many other interesting choices, why is the Camry such a consistent sales monster?
The answer, as far as I can tell, is that the Camry excels at providing a soothing luxury experience for a moderate price. In fact, Toyota ruthlessly dropped prices for the redesigned 2012 models. The top-of-the-range 4-cylinder XLE starts at $25,535, almost $2,000 less than the 2011 price. The LE Hybrid, which now returns a combined federal fuel economy rating of 41 m.p.g., starts at $26,750. The most expensive model, the V6 XLE, barely nudges over $30,000. And those prices include two years of free maintenance.
Toyota managed to lower sticker prices in the midst of a redesign by postponing the expensive mechanical upgrades that define the competition: you'll not find direct fuel injection, turbochargers or a diesel engine in the Camry lineup. The new Camry is much like the old Camry, its edges that much more fanatically buffed and chamfered in pursuit of frictionless competence.
I could fill the rest of this review simply enumerating all the places where Toyota added extra sound-deadening material. (But I won't.) And certainly, the Camry's stolid serenity implies that it must not be much of a stretch to transform the V-6 model into its Lexus-badged equivalent, the ES 350. But you know the news well is a bit dry when Toyota bothers to mention that ''the V-6 features a new, lower oil viscosity.'' My apologies if you just fell off your chair.
Perhaps the wildest change lies not under the hood, but in the dashboard, where Toyota offers its new Entune multimedia system. Entune connects your car to your smartphone, offering Bing, Pandora and other apps through the display screen.
I applaud the idea of integrating phones in such a way that they become less dangerous, but I have to wonder if a trick multimedia system is at odds with the demographic of Camry buyers. The segment of Camry drivers who confuse the gas pedal with the brake pedal -- per the findings of the unintended acceleration investigation -- may well assume that pressing the Apps button causes a tray of jalapeno poppers to slide out of the dashboard.
Entune apps are free for three years, after which Toyota figures it will charge $5 a month for apps and another $5 for data. I predict that in three years, there will be a lot of Entune-equipped Camrys with nonfunctional apps because the owners will resent paying a monthly service fee for programs that are free on their phones.
Toyota is so keen on apps that it has set up an iCamry Pandora station, which I sampled on my phone after the test drive. Based on that experience, it appears that Adele, whose silky laments dominate iCamry radio, is the musical equivalent of Toyota's marquee sedan. Given that Adele had the top-selling album last year, I suppose she is sort of the Camry of pop music. I give Toyota credit -- it stays on message.
If it seems as if I'm spending a lot of time contextualizing, that's because there's not a whole lot of news about the driving experience. The 178-horsepower 4-cylinder is reasonably smooth and certainly powerful enough to suit most customers. The chunky four-spoke leather-wrapped steering wheel feels good in your hands, and the updated dash materials look nice, although the integrated sewn-in-place rear head restraints are an obvious cost-cutting measure. As for all that work reducing the noise quotient, if you told me the Japanese-market Camry were named the Serenity CloudDriver 2.5, I'd believe you.
I didn't sample the V-6, but at a gas station, a Camry driver at an adjacent pump called over and commented on the 4-cylinder XLE that I was fueling. He'd just bought a V-6 version, which he told me was exceedingly rapid. I was surprised -- not that the 268-horsepower V-6 is fast, but that Camry drivers talk to one another.
I also sampled the Hybrid, which strikes me as the killer deal of the lineup. Toyota says the Camry Hybrid, with 200 combined gas-electric horsepower, does a 0-to-60 sprint in 7.6 seconds, making it faster than the conventional 4-cylinder while returning a fantastic 43 miles per gallon in the Environmental Protection Agency's city cycle.
There's even an E.V. mode, wherein the driver can rely on the nickel-metal-hydride batteries alone for as much as 1.6 miles. But you'll need to really tiptoe through the country club to keep the gas engine from firing up, as I discovered when an injudicious throttle foot prompted the gauge cluster to scold me with the message, ''E.V. mode deactivated: excessive acceleration.'' Let's just say that the Camry and I have differing ideas about what constitutes excessive acceleration.
Across the board, the 2012 Camry offers worthwhile improvements to its predecessor, especially with the price. But at some point Toyota might begin worrying that it's been optimizing its propellers while everyone else is building jets.
The Fusion, for example, will offer lithium batteries for the new hybrids (one of them a plug-in), stop-start systems, direct injection and small-displacement turbocharged motors. None of these features is on the Camry's horizon anytime soon.
Once upon a time, Honda and Toyota had an easy time dominating the midsize sedan market. The Americans were indifferent, the Koreans amateurish, the Germans too expensive. Now Ford and General Motors are going in guns ablaze with the Fusion and Malibu, Hyundai and Kia are raising their game with every redesign and Volkswagen has repositioned the Passat to go after the meat of the market. The Camry enjoys the momentum conferred by the best-seller title, but even disinterested car buyers will eventually punish year-to-year stasis. (See: mid-1990s Ford Taurus.)
The Camry's historic excellence has forced Toyota's competitors to go back to the drawing board and rethink their strategies. I suspect that sooner rather than later, Toyota will do the same.
INSIDE TRACK: The incumbent champ fights to maintain momentum.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WELL CONNECTED: The popular Camry line has been restyled and freshened for 2012, and Toyota has reduced prices. The Camry Hybrid, above, and XLE, left, offer a new Entune multimedia system that brings smartphone apps into the car. (AU1)
SERENE: Extra sound deadening makes the cabin even more hushed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOYOTA MOTOR SALES)
 OBJECTION: The Hybrid can go 1.6 miles on electricity alone, but only if your foot is feather-light. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EZRA DYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (69%); SPORTS CARS (68%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1007 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE IECONOMY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3878 words

HEADLINE: How Apple Sidesteps Billions in Taxes

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG and DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI; Additional reporting was contributed by Keith Bradsher in Hong Kong, Siem Eikelenboom in Amsterdam, Dean Greenaway in the British Virgin Islands, Scott Sayare in Luxembourg and Jason Woodard in Singapore.

 BODY:
RENO, Nev. -- Apple, the world's most profitable technology company, doesn't design iPhones here. It doesn't run AppleCare customer service from this city. And it doesn't manufacture MacBooks or iPads anywhere nearby.
Yet, with a handful of employees in a small office here in Reno, Apple has done something central to its corporate strategy: it has avoided millions of dollars in taxes in California and 20 other states.
Apple's headquarters are in Cupertino, Calif. By putting an office in Reno, just 200 miles away, to collect and invest the company's profits, Apple sidesteps state income taxes on some of those gains.
California's corporate tax rate is 8.84 percent. Nevada's? Zero. 
Setting up an office in Reno is just one of many legal methods Apple uses to reduce its worldwide tax bill by billions of dollars each year. As it has in Nevada, Apple has created subsidiaries in low-tax places like Ireland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the British Virgin Islands -- some little more than a letterbox or an anonymous office -- that help cut the taxes it pays around the world.
Almost every major corporation tries to minimize its taxes, of course. For Apple, the savings are especially alluring because the company's profits are so high. Wall Street analysts predict Apple could earn up to $45.6 billion in its current fiscal year -- which would be a record for any American business.
Apple serves as a window on how technology giants have taken advantage of tax codes written for an industrial age and ill suited to today's digital economy. Some profits at companies like Apple, Google, Amazon, Hewlett-Packard and Microsoft derive not from physical goods but from royalties on intellectual property, like the patents on software that makes devices work. Other times, the products themselves are digital, like downloaded songs. It is much easier for businesses with royalties and digital products to move profits to low-tax countries than it is, say, for grocery stores or automakers. A downloaded application, unlike a car, can be sold from anywhere.
The growing digital economy presents a conundrum for lawmakers overseeing corporate taxation: although technology is now one of the nation's largest and most valued industries, many tech companies are among the least taxed, according to government and corporate data. Over the last two years, the 71 technology companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- including Apple, Google, Yahoo and Dell -- reported paying worldwide cash taxes at a rate that, on average, was a third less than other S.& P. companies'. (Cash taxes may include payments for multiple years.)
Even among tech companies, Apple's rates are low. And while the company has remade industries, ignited economic growth and delighted customers, it has also devised corporate strategies that take advantage of gaps in the tax code, according to former executives who helped create those strategies.
Apple, for instance, was among the first tech companies to designate overseas salespeople in high-tax countries in a manner that allowed them to sell on behalf of low-tax subsidiaries on other continents, sidestepping income taxes, according to former executives. Apple was a pioneer of an accounting technique known as the ''Double Irish With a Dutch Sandwich,'' which reduces taxes by routing profits through Irish subsidiaries and the Netherlands and then to the Caribbean. Today, that tactic is used by hundreds of other corporations -- some of which directly imitated Apple's methods, say accountants at those companies.
Without such tactics, Apple's federal tax bill in the United States most likely would have been $2.4 billion higher last year, according to a recent study by a former Treasury Department economist, Martin A. Sullivan. As it stands, the company paid cash taxes of $3.3 billion around the world on its reported profits of $34.2 billion last year, a tax rate of 9.8 percent. (Apple does not disclose what portion of those payments was in the United States, or what portion is assigned to previous or future years.)
By comparison, Wal-Mart last year paid worldwide cash taxes of $5.9 billion on its booked profits of $24.4 billion, a tax rate of 24 percent, which is about average for non-tech companies.
Apple's domestic tax bill has piqued particular curiosity among corporate tax experts because although the company is based in the United States, its profits -- on paper, at least -- are largely foreign. While Apple contracts out much of the manufacturing and assembly of its products to other companies overseas, the majority of Apple's executives, product designers, marketers, employees, research and development, and retail stores are in the United States. Tax experts say it is therefore reasonable to expect that most of Apple's profits would be American as well. The nation's tax code is based on the concept that a company ''earns'' income where value is created, rather than where products are sold.
However, Apple's accountants have found legal ways to allocate about 70 percent of its profits overseas, where tax rates are often much lower, according to corporate filings.
Neither the government nor corporations make tax returns public, and a company's taxable income often differs from the profits disclosed in annual reports. Companies report their cash outlays for income taxes in their annual Form 10-K, but it is impossible from those numbers to determine precisely how much, in total, corporations pay to governments. In Apple's last annual disclosure, the company listed its worldwide taxes -- which includes cash taxes paid as well as deferred taxes and other charges -- at $8.3 billion, an effective tax rate of almost a quarter of profits.
However, tax analysts and scholars said that figure most likely overstated how much the company would hand to governments because it included sums that might never be paid. ''The information on 10-Ks is fiction for most companies,'' said Kimberly Clausing, an economist at Reed College who specializes in multinational taxation. ''But for tech companies it goes from fiction to farcical.''
Apple, in a statement, said it ''has conducted all of its business with the highest of ethical standards, complying with applicable laws and accounting rules.'' It added, ''We are incredibly proud of all of Apple's contributions.''
Apple ''pays an enormous amount of taxes, which help our local, state and federal governments,'' the statement also said. ''In the first half of fiscal year 2012, our U.S. operations have generated almost $5 billion in federal and state income taxes, including income taxes withheld on employee stock gains, making us among the top payers of U.S. income tax.''
The statement did not specify how it arrived at $5 billion, nor did it address the issue of deferred taxes, which the company may pay in future years or decide to defer indefinitely. The $5 billion figure appears to include taxes ultimately owed by Apple employees.
The sums paid by Apple and other tech corporations is a point of contention in the company's backyard.
A mile and a half from Apple's Cupertino headquarters is De Anza College, a community college that Steve Wozniak, one of Apple's founders, attended from 1969 to 1974. Because of California's state budget crisis, De Anza has cut more than a thousand courses and 8 percent of its faculty since 2008.
Now, De Anza faces a budget gap so large that it is confronting a ''death spiral,'' the school's president, Brian Murphy, wrote to the faculty in January. Apple, of course, is not responsible for the state's financial shortfall, which has numerous causes. But the company's tax policies are seen by officials like Mr. Murphy as symptomatic of why the crisis exists.
''I just don't understand it,'' he said in an interview. ''I'll bet every person at Apple has a connection to De Anza. Their kids swim in our pool. Their cousins take classes here. They drive past it every day, for Pete's sake.
''But then they do everything they can to pay as few taxes as possible.''
Escaping State Taxes
In 2006, as Apple's bank accounts and stock price were rising, company executives came here to Reno and established a subsidiary named Braeburn Capital to manage and invest the company's cash. Braeburn is a variety of apple that is simultaneously sweet and tart.
Today, Braeburn's offices are down a narrow hallway inside a bland building that sits across from an abandoned restaurant. Inside, there are posters of candy-colored iPods and a large Apple insignia, as well as a handful of desks and computer terminals.
When someone in the United States buys an iPhone, iPad or other Apple product, a portion of the profits from that sale is often deposited into accounts controlled by Braeburn, and then invested in stocks, bonds or other financial instruments, say company executives. Then, when those investments turn a profit, some of it is shielded from tax authorities in California by virtue of Braeburn's Nevada address.
Since founding Braeburn, Apple has earned more than $2.5 billion in interest and dividend income on its cash reserves and investments around the globe. If Braeburn were located in Cupertino, where Apple's top executives work, a portion of the domestic income would be taxed at California's 8.84 percent corporate income tax rate.
But in Nevada there is no state corporate income tax and no capital gains tax.
What's more, Braeburn allows Apple to lower its taxes in other states -- including Florida, New Jersey and New Mexico -- because many of those jurisdictions use formulas that reduce what is owed when a company's financial management occurs elsewhere. Apple does not disclose what portion of cash taxes is paid to states, but the company reported that it owed $762 million in state income taxes nationwide last year. That effective state tax rate is higher than the rate of many other tech companies, but as Ms. Clausing and other tax analysts have noted, such figures are often not reliable guides to what is actually paid.
Dozens of other companies, including Cisco, Harley-Davidson and Microsoft, have also set up Nevada subsidiaries that bypass taxes in other states. Hundreds of other corporations reap similar savings by locating offices in Delaware.
But some in California are unhappy that Apple and other California-based companies have moved financial operations to tax-free states -- particularly since lawmakers have offered them tax breaks to keep them in the state.
In 1996, 1999 and 2000, for instance, the California Legislature increased the state's research and development tax credit, permitting hundreds of companies, including Apple, to avoid billions in state taxes, according to legislative analysts. Apple has reported tax savings of $412 million from research and development credits of all sorts since 1996.
Then, in 2009, after an intense lobbying campaign led by Apple, Cisco, Oracle, Intel and other companies, the California Legislature reduced taxes for corporations based in California but operating in other states or nations. Legislative analysts say the change will eventually cost the state government about $1.5 billion a year.
Such lost revenue is one reason California now faces a budget crisis, with a shortfall of more than $9.2 billion in the coming fiscal year alone. The state has cut some health care programs, significantly raised tuition at state universities, cut services to the disabled and proposed a $4.8 billion reduction in spending on kindergarten and other grades.
Apple declined to comment on its Nevada operations. Privately, some executives said it was unfair to criticize the company for reducing its tax bill when thousands of other companies acted similarly. If Apple volunteered to pay more in taxes, it would put itself at a competitive disadvantage, they argued, and do a disservice to its shareholders.
Indeed, Apple's decisions have yielded benefits. After announcing one of the best quarters in its history last week, the company said it had net profits of $24.7 billion on revenues of $85.5 billion in the first half of the fiscal year, and more than $110 billion in the bank, according to company filings.
A Global Tax Strategy
Every second of every hour, millions of times each day, in living rooms and at cash registers, consumers click the ''Buy'' button on iTunes or hand over payment for an Apple product.
And with that, an international financial engine kicks into gear, moving money across continents in the blink of an eye. While Apple's Reno office helps the company avoid state taxes, its international subsidiaries -- particularly the company's assignment of sales and patent royalties to other nations -- help reduce taxes owed to the American and other governments.
For instance, one of Apple's subsidiaries in Luxembourg, named iTunes S.a r.l., has just a few dozen employees, according to corporate documents filed in that nation and a current executive. The only indication of the subsidiary's presence outside is a letterbox with a lopsided slip of paper reading ''ITUNES SARL.''
Luxembourg has just half a million residents. But when customers across Europe, Africa or the Middle East -- and potentially elsewhere -- download a song, television show or app, the sale is recorded in this small country, according to current and former executives. In 2011, iTunes S.a r.l.'s revenue exceeded $1 billion, according to an Apple executive, representing roughly 20 percent of iTunes's worldwide sales.
The advantages of Luxembourg are simple, say Apple executives. The country has promised to tax the payments collected by Apple and numerous other tech corporations at low rates if they route transactions through Luxembourg. Taxes that would have otherwise gone to the governments of Britain, France, the United States and dozens of other nations go to Luxembourg instead, at discounted rates.
''We set up in Luxembourg because of the favorable taxes,'' said Robert Hatta, who helped oversee Apple's iTunes retail marketing and sales for European markets until 2007. ''Downloads are different from tractors or steel because there's nothing you can touch, so it doesn't matter if your computer is in France or England. If you're buying from Luxembourg, it's a relationship with Luxembourg.''
An Apple spokesman declined to comment on the Luxembourg operations.
Downloadable goods illustrate how modern tax systems have become increasingly ill equipped for an economy dominated by electronic commerce. Apple, say former executives, has been particularly talented at identifying legal tax loopholes and hiring accountants who, as much as iPhone designers, are known for their innovation. In the 1980s, for instance, Apple was among the first major corporations to designate overseas distributors as ''commissionaires,'' rather than retailers, said Michael Rashkin, Apple's first director of tax policy, who helped set up the system before leaving in 1999.
To customers the designation was virtually unnoticeable. But because commissionaires never technically take possession of inventory -- which would require them to recognize taxes -- the structure allowed a salesman in high-tax Germany, for example, to sell computers on behalf of a subsidiary in low-tax Singapore. Hence, most of those profits would be taxed at Singaporean, rather than German, rates.
The Double Irish
In the late 1980s, Apple was among the pioneers in creating a tax structure -- known as the Double Irish -- that allowed the company to move profits into tax havens around the world, said Tim Jenkins, who helped set up the system as an Apple European finance manager until 1994.
Apple created two Irish subsidiaries -- today named Apple Operations International and Apple Sales International -- and built a glass-encased factory amid the green fields of Cork. The Irish government offered Apple tax breaks in exchange for jobs, according to former executives with knowledge of the relationship.
But the bigger advantage was that the arrangement allowed Apple to send royalties on patents developed in California to Ireland. The transfer was internal, and simply moved funds from one part of the company to a subsidiary overseas. But as a result, some profits were taxed at the Irish rate of approximately 12.5 percent, rather than at the American statutory rate of 35 percent. In 2004, Ireland, a nation of less than 5 million, was home to more than one-third of Apple's worldwide revenues, according to company filings. (Apple has not released more recent estimates.)
Moreover, the second Irish subsidiary -- the ''Double'' -- allowed other profits to flow to tax-free companies in the Caribbean. Apple has assigned partial ownership of its Irish subsidiaries to Baldwin Holdings Unlimited in the British Virgin Islands, a tax haven, according to documents filed there and in Ireland. Baldwin Holdings has no listed offices or telephone number, and its only listed director is Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's chief financial officer, who lives and works in Cupertino. Baldwin apples are known for their hardiness while traveling.
Finally, because of Ireland's treaties with European nations, some of Apple's profits could travel virtually tax-free through the Netherlands -- the Dutch Sandwich -- which made them essentially invisible to outside observers and tax authorities.
Robert Promm, Apple's controller in the mid-1990s, called the strategy ''the worst-kept secret in Europe.''
It is unclear precisely how Apple's overseas finances now function. In 2006, the company reorganized its Irish divisions as unlimited corporations, which have few requirements to disclose financial information.
However, tax experts say that strategies like the Double Irish help explain how Apple has managed to keep its international taxes to 3.2 percent of foreign profits last year, to 2.2 percent in 2010, and in the single digits for the last half-decade, according to the company's corporate filings.
Apple declined to comment on its operations in Ireland, the Netherlands and the British Virgin Islands.
Apple reported in its last annual disclosures that $24 billion -- or 70 percent -- of its total $34.2 billion in pretax profits were earned abroad, and 30 percent were earned in the United States. But Mr. Sullivan, the former Treasury Department economist who today writes for the trade publication Tax Analysts, said that ''given that all of the marketing and products are designed here, and the patents were created in California, that number should probably be at least 50 percent.''
If profits were evenly divided between the United States and foreign countries, Apple's federal tax bill would have increased by about $2.4 billion last year, he said, because a larger amount of its profits would have been subject to the United States' higher corporate income tax rate.
''Apple, like many other multinationals, is using perfectly legal methods to keep a significant portion of their profits out of the hands of the I.R.S.,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''And when America's most profitable companies pay less, the general public has to pay more.''
Other tax experts, like Edward D. Kleinbard, former chief of staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, have reached similar conclusions.
''This tax avoidance strategy used by Apple and other multinationals doesn't just minimize the companies' U.S. taxes,'' said Mr. Kleinbard, now a professor of tax law at the University of Southern California. ''It's German tax and French tax and tax in the U.K. and elsewhere.''
One downside for companies using such strategies is that when money is sent overseas, it cannot be returned to the United States without incurring a new tax bill.
However, that might change. Apple, which holds $74 billion offshore, last year aligned itself with more than four dozen companies and organizations urging Congress for a ''repatriation holiday'' that would permit American businesses to bring money home without owing large taxes. The coalition, which includes Google, Microsoft and Pfizer, has hired dozens of lobbyists to push for the measure, which has not yet come up for vote. The tax break would cost the federal government $79 billion over the next decade, according to a Congressional report.
Fallout in California
In one of his last public appearances before his death, Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, addressed Cupertino's City Council last June, seeking approval to build a new headquarters.
Most of the Council was effusive in its praise of the proposal. But one councilwoman, Kris Wang, had questions.
How will residents benefit? she asked. Perhaps Apple could provide free wireless Internet to Cupertino, she suggested, something Google had done in neighboring Mountain View.
''See, I'm a simpleton; I've always had this view that we pay taxes, and the city should do those things,'' Mr. Jobs replied, according to a video of the meeting. ''That's why we pay taxes. Now, if we can get out of paying taxes, I'll be glad to put up Wi-Fi.''
He suggested that, if the City Council were unhappy, perhaps Apple could move. The company is Cupertino's largest taxpayer, with more than $8 million in property taxes assessed by local officials last year.
Ms. Wang dropped her suggestion.
Cupertino, Ms. Wang said in an interview, has real financial problems. ''We're proud to have Apple here,'' said Ms. Wang, who has since left the Council. ''But how do you get them to feel more connected?''
Other residents argue that Apple does enough as Cupertino's largest employer and that tech companies, in general, have buoyed California's economy. Apple's workers eat in local restaurants, serve on local boards and donate to local causes. Silicon Valley's many millionaires pay personal state income taxes. In its statement, Apple said its ''international growth is creating jobs domestically, since we oversee most of our operations from California.''
''The vast majority of our global work force remains in the U.S.,'' the statement continued, ''with more than 47,000 full-time employees in all 50 states.''
Moreover, Apple has given nearby Stanford University more than $50 million in the last two years. The company has also donated $50 million to an African aid organization. In its statement, Apple said: ''We have contributed to many charitable causes but have never sought publicity for doing so. Our focus has been on doing the right thing, not getting credit for it. In 2011, we dramatically expanded the number of deserving organizations we support by initiating a matching gift program for our employees.''
Still, some, including De Anza College's president, Mr. Murphy, say the philanthropy and job creation do not offset Apple's and other companies' decisions to circumvent taxes. Within 20 minutes of the financially ailing school are the global headquarters of Google, Facebook, Intel, Hewlett-Packard and Cisco.
''When it comes time for all these companies -- Google and Apple and Facebook and the rest -- to pay their fair share, there's a knee-jerk resistance,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''They're philosophically antitax, and it's decimating the state.''
''But I'm not complaining,'' he added. ''We can't afford to upset these guys. We need every dollar we can get.''
Protecting Profits: The iEconomy: Articles in this series are examining challenges posed by increasingly globalized high-tech industries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Braeburn Capital, an Apple subsidiary in Reno, Nev., manages and invests the company's cash. Nevada has a corporate tax rate of zero, as opposed to the 8.84 percent levied in California, where Apple has its headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22)
Last June, Steven P. Jobs, then the chief of Apple, top, introduced plans for a new corporate campus, above, to the City Council of Cupertino, Calif. Residents disagree on whether the company pays its fair share. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CITY OF CUPERTINO, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
APPLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Brian Murphy, center, head of De Anza College in Cupertino, Calif., says the big tech firms are ''philosophically antitax, and it's decimating the state.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25) GRAPHICS: Income before taxes, worldwide: 2011 $34.2 billion (Source: company filings) (A1)
'Double Irish With A Dutch Sandwich': Numerous companies take advantage of loopholes in international laws to move profits around the world, avoiding taxes. Many of these techniques rely on transferring profits on patent royalties to places like Ireland. Here is one technique typical of what Apple and others pioneered. (A22)
Shrinking Corporate Tax Rates: Corporate profits are far bigger now than they were in 1977, the year Apple was incorporated ...
... and corporate tax rates have fallen.
Some tax experts say that Apple moves more profits offshore than appears justified by its operations, which are largely in the United States. And overseas, technology companies pay particularly low taxes. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
company reports
 American Tax Policy Institute) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); SMARTPHONES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); PATENTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (62%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); RENO, NV, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEVADA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRELAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%); LUXEMBOURG (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1008 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: The Imperiled Promise of College

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
FOR a long time and for a lot of us, ''college'' was more or less a synonym for success. We had only to go. We had only to graduate. And if we did, according to parents and high-school guidance counselors and everything we heard and everything we read, we could pretty much count on a career, just about depend on a decent income and more or less expect security. A diploma wasn't a piece of paper. It was an amulet.
And it was broadly accessible, or at least it was spoken of that way. With the right mix of intelligence, moxie and various kinds of aid, a motivated person could supposedly get there. College was seen as a glittering centerpiece of the American dream, a reliable engine of social mobility. 
I'm not sure things were ever that simple, but they're definitely more complicated now. And that was an unacknowledged backdrop for the pitched debate last week about federal student loan rates and whether they would be kept at 3.4 percent or allowed to return to 6.8 percent. That was one reason, among many, that it stirred up so much anxiety and got so much attention.
Because of levitating costs, college these days is a luxury item. What's more, it's a luxury item with newly uncertain returns.
Yes, many of the sorts of service-industry jobs now available to people without higher education are less financially rewarding than manufacturing jobs of yore, and so college has in that sense become more imperative. And, yes, college graduates have an unemployment rate half that of people with only high school degrees.
But that figure factors in Americans who got their diplomas and first entered the job market decades ago, and it could reflect not just what was studied in college but the already established economic advantages, contacts and temperaments of the kind of people who pursue and stick with higher education.
It doesn't capture the grim reality for recent college graduates, whose leg up on their less educated counterparts isn't such a sturdy, comely leg at the moment. According to an Associated Press analysis of data from 2011, 53.6 percent of college graduates under the age of 25 were unemployed or, if they were lucky, merely underemployed, which means they were in jobs for which their degrees weren't necessary. Philosophy majors mull questions no more existential than the proper billowiness of the foamed milk atop a customer's cappuccino. Anthropology majors contemplate the tribal behavior of the youngsters who shop at the Zara where they peddle skinny jeans.
I single out philosophy and anthropology because those are two fields -- along with zoology, art history and humanities -- whose majors are least likely to find jobs reflective of their education level, according to government projections quoted by the Associated Press. But how many college students are fully aware of that? How many reroute themselves into, say, teaching, accounting, nursing or computer science, where degree-relevant jobs are easier to find? Not nearly enough, judging from the angry, dispossessed troops of Occupy Wall Street.
The thing is, today's graduates aren't just entering an especially brutal economy. They're entering it in many cases with the wrong portfolios. To wit: as a country we routinely grant special visas to highly educated workers from countries like China and India. They possess scientific and technical skills that American companies need but that not enough American students are acquiring.
''That's why there are all these kinds of initiatives to make math and science fun,'' Stephen J. Rose, a senior economist at Georgetown University's Center on Education and the Workforce, reminded me last week. He was referring to elementary and high school attempts to prime more American students for college majors in those areas and for sectors of the job market where positions are more plentiful and lucrative. The center issued a report last year that noted that ''not all bachelor's degrees are the same'' and that ''while going to college is undoubtedly a wise decision, what you take while you're there matters a lot, too.''
A wider world of competition now confronts college graduates. A front-page article in The Wall Street Journal last week cited data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to note: ''Thirty years ago, the U.S. led the world in the percentage of 25- to 34-year-olds with the equivalent of at least a two-year degree; only Canada and Israel were close. As of 2009, the U.S. lagged behind 14 other developed countries.''
That situation isn't helped by the cost of higher education, which has escalated wildly over the last three decades and has left too many students with crippling Everests of debt. In light of the daunting financial calculus of college today, Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, recently introduced a bill that would prod the federal government to disseminate statistics about the graduation rates, incomes, debt levels and such for people who pursue different courses of study at different schools.
''The focus has always been on access,'' Wyden told me. ''Just get to college. Find a way in the door.'' But today, he said, students facing ''an incredibly tough job market'' need to know ''how their particular program will stack up and what kind of debt they're going to rack up.'' I'd go even further than he does and call for government and university incentives to steer students into the fields of studies that will serve them and society best. We use taxes to influence behavior. Why not student aid?
That you can't gain a competitive edge with just any diploma from just any college is reflected in the ferociousness of the race to get into elite universities. It's madness out there. Tiger mothers and $125-an-hour tutors proliferate, and parents scrimp and struggle to pay up to $40,000 a year in tuition to private secondary schools that then put them on the spot for supplemental donations, lest the soccer field turn brown and the Latin club languish. The two Americas are evident in education as perhaps nowhere else.
Trying to keep higher learning as affordable as possible is a crucial effort to collapse that divide. No good can come from letting college -- as a goal, as an option -- slip away. But as a guarantor of a certain quality of life, it already has. And we need to look at a whole lot more than loan rates to fix the problem.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); LUXURY GOODS (70%); HISTORY (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ART HISTORY (67%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); ZOOLOGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1009 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Many Stakeholders in Executive Pay

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Our organizations read with interest Gretchen Morgenson's analysis of how employees are joining in shareholder attacks on executive pay packages (''Employees, Too, Want a Say on the Boss's Pay,'' Fair Game, April 22). 
But this concern also extends to consumers. In California, consumer groups have sought to require all public-utility rate increases as they relate to executive compensation to be subject to a ratepayer advisory vote. This vote would be based on a random sampling of 1,000 ratepayers, conducted by an independent pollster. Ultimately, consumers are affected as much as shareholders by excessive executive pay, because it fuels bloated budgets and executive lifestyles that consumers must eventually pay for, directly or indirectly.
In the case of a bank, this might be through higher fees on checking accounts, for example. For a gas or electric utility, however, it can mean higher rates. Len Canty
Faith Bautista
April 22
Mr. Canty is chairman of the Black Economic Council, based in Oakland, Calif., and Ms. Bautista is president and chief executive of the National Asian American Coalition, based in San Bruno, Calif.
To the Editor:
Yes, employees who own stock in a company tend to be more aware of the shortcomings of their bosses -- and how those shortcomings contrast with the executives' outrageous salaries and bonuses. That is in contrast to many uninvolved stockholders, who still tend to rubber-stamp the company's desires -- or don't vote at all.
Recently, I have been inundated with proxies and the accompanying statement that the company's results are equal to or slightly better than those of its peer group, thus entitling the chief executive to a huge bonus. But why should essentially average performance mean that kind of payout? Such a system serves only to keep inflating the pay of C.E.O.'s in many industries.
A more reasonable bonus amount would be based on an executive's added value to the company, by an examination of the balance sheet.
Nelson Marans
Silver Spring, Md., April 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (94%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (93%); SHAREHOLDERS (91%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); UTILITY RATES (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1010 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Telling Strength From Weakness

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
ARE the perils posed by too-big-to-fail banks a thing of the past?
That's what we keep hearing from Washington. Politicians who wrote the Dodd-Frank law insist that it eliminates the dangers posed by large, politically connected financial institutions. At a news conference last week, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said that higher capital and greater liquidity requirements for big banks, combined with more watchful regulators, were making our financial giants stronger and less likely to require taxpayer backstops.
Outside the Beltway, however, it is hardly clear that we've resolved this signal threat. Big banks are bigger than ever, and they exert enormous power over regulators and lawmakers. Increasingly, smaller institutions can't compete. 
So it was refreshing last week to hear Kevin M. Warsh, a former Fed governor, speak candidly and critically about the government backing that continues to support our largest banks. Equally refreshing were his prescriptions for eliminating the too-big-to-fail problem.
''We cannot have a durable, competitive, dynamic banking system that facilitates economic growth if policy protects the franchises of oligopolies atop the financial sector,'' Mr. Warsh told an audience at the Stanford Law School on Wednesday night. ''Those 'interconnected' firms that find themselves dependent on implicit government support do not serve our economy's interest.''
Mr. Warsh, who is a distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford and a lecturer at Stanford's Graduate School of Business, left government in 2011. His last position was at the Fed, where he was a governor for five years. Given his front-row Fed seat during the financial crisis, his views on preventing a repeat of it carry some weight.
Put simply, Mr. Warsh does not believe that higher capital standards for banks and greater regulatory scrutiny will be enough to prevent future taxpayer-financed bailouts. ''At core, I'm worried that the Dodd-Frank Act doubles down on regulators, gives upon markets and outsources capital requirements to an international standards group in Basel, Switzerland,'' he said in an interview last week.
Importantly, none of these responses have moved us closer to ''ridding the United States financial system of large, quasi-public utilities atop the sector,'' he said.
Mr. Warsh does not prescribe breaking up giant institutions. Rather, he says their disclosures must be subject to new and ramped-up transparency requirements so investors can differentiate strength from weakness.
''The Federal Reserve's most recent stress tests -- particularly the enhanced disclosure -- are a step in the right direction,'' he told his Stanford audience. ''Still, disclosure practices by the largest financial firms remain lacking, and the periodic reporting overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission tends to obfuscate as much as inform.''
Regulators must require clearer and more expansive disclosures so that the financial statements and associated risks of large and complex companies can be assessed, Mr. Warsh said. If investors had more detailed information from these institutions, they would very likely sell their shares and debt if they took too many risks. This would hold the managers of these institutions accountable for reckless behavior by making them pay more to fund their businesses.
But this powerful market force is ineffectual in a world where investors believe that the government will save faltering institutions. ''Unfortunately, the Dodd-Frank Act has only reinforced the view that big and troubled banks will receive special government assistance,'' Mr. Warsh said in his speech. ''By sanctioning some list of too-big-to-fail firms -- and treating them different than the rest -- policy makers are signaling to markets that the government is vested in their survival.''
Mr. Warsh also questions our nation's participation in the Basel negotiations regarding bank capital requirements. He pointed out that many of the countries working alongside the United States on these rules back their banks more explicitly than we do. Therefore, their approach to capital standards is bound to vary greatly from ours.
''My concern is that the negotiation, while well intended, is between banking systems that at their core are fundamentally different and aspire to fundamentally different things,'' he said. ''The largest banks in Japan, Germany, for example, have long been akin to national champions. Perhaps they reason that their banks need less capital than ours because their sovereigns more assuredly stand behind them.''
Our financial regulators, Mr. Warsh suggested, should work with countries that don't explicitly back their largest institutions. ''We should work with them to instill real market discipline and real capital levels and do a more rigorous job on regulation,'' he said. Britain and Switzerland are two possible candidates for this joint effort, in large part because their banks are too big to be bailed out by their governments.
CIRCLING back to the pernicious effects of large and politically interconnected banks, Mr. Warsh makes a direct link between the favors handed to these institutions and our disturbingly high unemployment rate. Small and medium-size banks, after all, are at a competitive disadvantage to the big guys, so they are less able to lend to companies of modest size, which do so much of the hiring in this country.
''The policy has favored large global banks and disfavored small and medium-sized banks,'' he said. ''So I'm not surprised that real economic and job growth that should come from these enterprises is still lacking. Our failure to have a dynamic competitive banking system is a partial explanation for the weakness we are seeing.''
Granted, Mr. Warsh is far outnumbered by those arguing for the status quo and the continued hegemony of big banks. Many of those people, not surprisingly, work in Washington. But their refusal to concede that taxpayers remain imperiled by banks too big to succeed only ensures that we will face another financial crisis. And that it will come sooner, not later.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin Warsh was a Federal Reserve governor during the financial crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); LAWYERS (74%); CARTELS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (54%)

PERSON: KEVIN WARSH (89%); BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1011 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Not So Fast On European Austerity

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and was the chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
EUROPEAN policy makers just don't get it. To hear them talk, you'd think that Europe was on the right path. Troubled countries just need more of the same, they say -- more fiscal austerity, more labor market flexibility, more price stability -- and the European crisis will be licked.
Have they looked at their own numbers? It has been two years since moves to austerity started, but the crisis is still with us. Growth in European gross domestic product was negative in the last quarter of 2011. Unemployment in the entire euro zone in February was 10.8 percent; in Spain it was an astounding 23.6 percent. And judging from the renewed turbulence in bond markets, investors don't believe that prosperity is just around the corner.
Fiscal austerity is normally a sensible response to a loss in confidence in a country's solvency, as has occurred in parts of Europe. But the current situation is exceptional. Short-term interest rates are very low, so large rate reductions to offset the negative impact of budget cutting are impossible. 
In addition, the troubled countries of Europe are part of a common currency area. This means that the other obvious tool for stimulating growth during a time of fiscal austerity -- depreciating the currency relative to that of their main trading partners -- is not available, either.
The result is that austerity is uniquely destructive right now. Indeed, because of the harsh effect of budget cutting on growth, debt-to-G.D.P. ratios in Europe have continued to rise.
If stringent belt-tightening isn't the answer, what is? It's not to just ignore the deficit. Many European countries have long-run fiscal situations that are unsustainable and must be dealt with.
The core of a more sensible approach is to pass the needed budget measures now, but to phase in the actual tax increases and spending cuts only gradually -- as economies recover. To use economists' terminology, the measures should be backloaded.
They should also be specific -- no more deficit targets without specifying how they'll be achieved. Instead, lay out right now whose taxes will be raised and what spending will be cut. And specify when the measures will take effect -- either along a set schedule, or tied explicitly to indicators of economic recovery.
BUT can such plans actually work? What's to stop policy makers from promising the moon and not delivering?
History shows that countries have done such gradual consolidations before. In 1983, for example, the United States passed a Social Security reform plan that was backloaded in the extreme: it specified tough changes, including higher taxes and increases in the retirement age, to be phased in over almost three decades. They've all occurred on schedule and without debate. Likewise, in 1995, Sweden laid out a plan to cut its deficit by a whopping 8 percent of G.D.P. over the next three years. It worked as intended. Australia did the same thing on a somewhat smaller scale starting a year later.
Once legislation is on the books, politicians, even from opposing parties, have little incentive to change it. Why mess with a consolidation that's already last year's -- or sometimes the last decade's -- news?
But what about bond markets? Don't fiscal consolidation plans need to put the pain up front to persuade investors that they're serious? After all, a number of European countries desperately need their borrowing rates to fall.
Investors, however, are very aware that low growth and high unemployment devastate a country's fiscal outlook. I did the simple exercise of looking at news reports after the biggest increases in Spanish government bond interest rates over the last year. The most common cause was concern about whether European leaders would take needed measures to help troubled countries. But in about a third of the cases, bad news about Spanish growth was viewed as the culprit.
Markets don't want counterproductive measures. For credibility, what matters is the nature and the composition of the tax and spending measures, and the clarity of the phase-in schedule.
Other steps could help bring markets along and allow distressed countries to follow a more gradual approach. In a very positive move, the European Union and the International Monetary Fund have greatly increased their rescue funds over the past month. Thus, if the authorities put their seal of approval on more gradual fiscal consolidation plans and stand ready to support troubled countries if needed, market interest rates on the countries' debts will most likely come down.
If that doesn't work, the European Central Bank could effectively cap the cost of borrowing for countries like Italy or Spain by buying large amounts of their bonds. If this were done after the countries had enacted specific, backloaded consolidation plans, the risk to the central bank would be manageable.
More generally, the European Central Bank could take further expansionary action. For example, it could reduce its benchmark interest rate, which is not yet at zero, and pursue quantitative easing by buying a range of assets. Any measure that would raise European growth even a little would make it easier for troubled countries to get their budget deficits under control.
Expansionary monetary policy could also help these countries to become more competitive. European policy makers talk about structural reforms -- increasing labor market flexibility and reducing regulation -- as the way to reduce wages and costs. But when overall inflation in Europe is very low, this strategy requires wages in troubled countries to fall, which rarely happens. If the European Central Bank aimed for slightly higher overall inflation -- say, 3 percent -- for a few years, these countries could become more competitive just by holding wage growth below that of their trading partners. That would help them to grow by increasing their exports.
FINALLY, countries that are not in distress, both inside and outside Europe, could help by stimulating their own economies. For example, Germany has a relatively modest long-run deficit and an enormous trade surplus. A tax cut for German consumers would raise domestic growth at a time when it's anemic, and increase imports from its neighbors, helping them to grow as well.
What about the United States, which faces a terrible long-run budget problem, but no immediate threats from the bond market? The best policy here is to combine the backloaded consolidation I'm recommending for troubled countries with the short-run stimulus I'm advocating for countries like Germany. We could enact something like the Bowles-Simpson plan to reduce the deficit sharply over 10 years, and include in it more near-term investment in infrastructure, education and scientific research.
This would lower unemployment faster, and put us on a path to fiscal health. And, by strengthening our growth, it would help the world economy, too.
These policies are nuanced, so they are easily caricatured as doing something with one hand and undoing it with the other. Their key element is dynamics -- using credible plans to lower borrowing costs and address long-run fiscal problems, while not taking immediate austerity measures that would raise unemployment when what countries need most is growth.
Current measures aren't working. Sooner or later, politicians and citizens will demand a strategy that does.

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY JACOB THOMAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); BONDS (69%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); SOCIAL SECURITY (66%); TAX INCREASES (66%); TAX LAW (61%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1012 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
Renovated, Except for the Heat
QI recently bought a co-op that was gut-renovated in 2005. It is a duplex that has no heat on the lower floor. I have since discovered that law requires that there be heat in the entire apartment. Since the board approved that renovation, are they responsible for fixing the problem?
A Sandor Krauss, a Manhattan real estate lawyer, says that a previously approved renovation does not necessarily impose liability on the co-op. But the state's real property law implies a warranty of habitability in every residential lease, which means the tenants should not be subjected to conditions that are dangerous, hazardous or detrimental to their life, health or safety. ''Courts have held that inadequate heat can be considered a violation of this warranty,'' Mr. Krauss said. It would appear that the co-op would be responsible. But another thing to consider is the alteration agreement signed by the previous owner. ''The cooperative may argue that the uninhabitable condition was caused by the previous shareholder,'' he said, ''and thus, it is now the responsibility of the current owner.'' 
Stabilizing a Tenant's Status
QMy apartment was destabilized because my rent was over $2,000 and myfamily's gross income exceeded $175,000 for two consecutive years. But I am still under my previous stabilized lease, which expires in a few months. My income was well below the new $200,000 income cap imposed by the Rent Act of 2011, and my legal rent is also below the new cap. Can I be reinstated as a rent-stabilized tenant?
A ''Whether or not the rule changes will apply to this tenant will depend on when the luxury deregulation process was initiated by the owner,'' said Jonathan H. Newman, a Manhattan real estate lawyer. If the paperwork was filed with the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal on or after July 1, 2011, an apartment can be deregulated only if monthly legal rent is $2,500 or more and the tenant's total household income -- reported on state income tax returns -- exceeded $200,000 for each of the two preceding calendar years. If the paperwork was filed before July 1, 2011, the landlord need show only that the monthly legal rent was $2,000 or more and assert that the tenant's household income exceeded $175,000 for each of the two previous years. But the statute is not retroactive, so if paperwork was filed before July 1, 2011, it is unlikely the letter writer would be able to regain stabilized status.
Covering Up the New Floors
QI want to install wood flooring in an apartment I just bought, but the co-op is requiring that 80 percent of the apartment be carpeted. There is no such requirement in the house rules or proprietary lease. Can the board do this?
A ''We would need to know the board's premise for making this demand, considering that the house rules and proprietary lease are silent on the topic,'' said Pierre Debbas, a Manhattan co-op and condo lawyer. Most house rules prohibit shareholders from activity that interferes with other shareholders' comfort and use of their spaces. If such a provision is in the house rules or lease, and the writer is creating a disturbance, the demand for carpeting is within the board's authority, even though governing documents have no specific requirement.
Address questions to Real Estate Q&A, The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, or by e-mail to realestateqa @nytimes.com. Answers can be given only through the column.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); PROPERTY LAW (77%); APPROVALS (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); FLOORING (60%); INCOME TAX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1013 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Drawn Together

BYLINE: By KATIE ROIPHE. 
Katie Roiphe, a professor at the Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute at New York University, is the author of ''Uncommon Arrangements: Seven Marriages.''

 BODY:
ARE YOU MY MOTHER?
A Comic Drama
Written and illustrated by Alison Bechdel
286 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $22.
If one is at first glance tempted to dismiss Alison Bechdel's ''Are You My Mother?'' as a glorified comic strip, one would be wildly and woefully misguided: it is as complicated, brainy, inventive and satisfying as the finest prose memoirs.
Bechdel's previous book, ''Fun Home,'' told the story of her father's secret homosexuality, thwarted artistic expression and ultimate suicide, and of her own coming out in college. ''Are You My Mother?'' delves into her troubled relationship with her distant, unhappy mother, and into her own difficulties connecting with a series of long-term girlfriends. As she confides her tale, she also addresses her mother's bluntly conflicted reaction to her art, and folds their struggle into the writing of the memoir itself. ''I would love to see your name on a book,'' her mother says. ''But not on a book of lesbian cartoons.'' 
Bechdel weaves emotional honesty with highbrow deliberation in a way that is never burdensome, and mostly light. ''Fun Home'' is subtitled ''A Family Tragicomic,'' and in both books the tragedy and the comedy are so consummately entwined, so gloriously balanced, the reader can't help being fascinated. ''Are You My Mother?'' manages to incorporate complicated and sometimes arcane references -- to psychoanalysis and the theories of the pediatrician and psychiatrist Donald Winnicott, to the work of Virginia Woolf and Adrienne Rich -- into a story that is gripping and funny and radiantly clear.
In a sense, Bechdel's innovative form lends itself to the subject: the graphic memoir can reproduce the layering of thought and mimic strands of simultaneous life -- the bursts of insight and memory that coexist with a humdrum moment like reading in bed with your lover, or arguing in the kitchen with your mother -- in ways that pure prose cannot. Things happen at the same time. Associations are made. The past is superimposed on the present. Thought bubbles and squares complicate and illuminate unobtrusively. There's electricity to the form, to the interaction between pictures and words, between feeling and event, that gives Bechdel's cerebral introspection an immediacy and drama it wouldn't otherwise have.
At one point Bechdel has a new lover who is endlessly running off to a political protest or demonstration, or vanishing to rural Massachusetts. Bechdel draws the two of them naked in bed, with a square around the words: ''I liked the built-in distance of this arrangement.'' There's a fruitful precision to this composition, a productive clash of image and words that tells the whole story of a time or phase in a single frame.
Throughout, there are magnificent feats of connectivity, startlingly complex internal monologues that unfold with perfect simplicity. On a two-page spread, Bechdel parses a Dr. Seuss drawing, overlaying letters from her father to her mother; a quote from Seuss's ''Sleep Book'' about a ''plexiglass dome''; a remark about retreating to her ''office,'' a barricaded closet or corner, in her youth; a quote from Winnicott; and an evocative analysis of her childhood relation to family life. In other hands this might collapse into something maddeningly clunky or overelaborate, but Bechdel's structure sustains it.
There's a lucidity to Bechdel's work that in certain ways (economy, concision, metaphor) bears more resemblance to poetry than to the dense, wordy introspection of most prose memoirs. The book delivers lightning bolts of revelation, maps of insight and visual snapshots of family entangle/ments in a singularly beautiful style.
Bechdel also captures the rhythms of family communication. She recounts a phone call with her mother: ''Hey! I got papers in Philadelphia and Chicago to carry my comic strip,'' Bechdel says. ''For money.'' Her mother answers: ''Hmnh. I have to get the plumber to come back, that pipe is still leaking.'' Bechdel: ''Plus I met with that publisher. I signed a contract to do a book of cartoons.'' Her mother: ''You mean your lesbian cartoons? . . . But . . . what if someone sees your name?''
''Are You My Mother?'' is among many other things a nuanced, sophisticated investigation of the impulse to write or create, the desire, shame, guilt, excitement and shadiness of the process. Bechdel, unremitting in her exploration of her motives, pins down and examines the moral ambiguity of the venture, the detachment and ruthlessness and terror inherent in exposing those close to you, along with the mysterious compulsion to do so.
The book opens with a scene of Bechdel driving and thinking about how to explain to her mother her decision to write a memoir about her father. She rehearses the conversation: ''I have something to tell you.'' ''I want to give him a proper funeral. I want to tell the truth.'' ''I don't want to hurt you but I have to do this.'' ''I hope that in time you'll come to understand.'' Then she thinks: ''Oh, that's good. Sanctimonious and patronizing.'' And as she considers how impossible it is to live and write at the same time, a giant truck -- one just like the truck ''my father likely jumped in front of'' -- swerves dangerously into her lane.
This is, as Bechdel's mother says, a ''metabook.'' But unlike most metabooks it isn't tiring or draining; it's exhilarating.
On a purely human and unliterary level, one has to admire Bechdel's largeness of spirit. She is sharply, intelligently, brutally critical of her mother's failings -- her remoteness, her chilliness, her uninterrogated favoring of Bechdel's brothers -- and supremely generous, compassionate and unbitter. She quotes Virginia Woolf saying that as soon as she wrote ''To the Lighthouse,'' ''I ceased to be obsessed by my mother. I no longer hear her voice; I do not see her. . . . I expressed some very long felt and deeply felt emotion. And in expressing it I explained it and then laid it to rest.'' Surely something similar is at work here.
Bechdel ends on a graceful note that is difficult to reproduce without the pictures: Her mother, she explains, taught her to be an artist. Over an illustration of mother and daughter playing a strange game called ''the crippled child,'' she writes: ''There was a certain thing I did not get from my mother. There is a lack, a gap, a void. But in its place, she has given me something else. Something, I would argue, that is far more valuable. She has given me the way out.''
I haven't encountered a book about being an artist, or about the punishing entanglements of mothers and daughters, as engaging, profound or original as this one in a long time. In fact the book made such a deep impression on me that after reading it, I walked around for days seeing little bits and snatches of my life as Alison Bechdel drawings.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING FROM ''ARE YOU MY MOTHER?'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); SUICIDE (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

TITLE: Are You My Mother?: A Comic Drama (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1014 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: In Hopeful Sign, Health Spending Is Flattening Out

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The growth of health spending has slowed substantially in the last few years, surprising experts and offering some fuel for optimism about the federal government's long-term fiscal performance.
Much of the slowdown is because of the recession, and thus not unexpected, health experts say. But some of it seems to be attributable to changing behavior by consumers and providers of health care -- meaning that the lower rates of growth might persist even as the economy picks up.
Because Medicare and Medicaid are two of the largest contributors to the country's long-term debts, slower growth in health costs could reduce the pressure for enormous spending cuts or tax increases.
In 2009 and 2010, total nationwide health care spending grew less than 4 percent per year, the slowest annual pace in more than five decades, according to the latest numbers from the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services. After years of taking up a growing share of economic activity, health spending held steady in 2010, at 17.9 percent of the gross domestic product. 
The growth rate mostly slowed as millions of Americans lost insurance coverage along with their jobs. Worried about job security, others may have feared taking time off work for doctor's visits or surgical procedures, or skipped nonurgent care when money was tight.
Still, the slowdown was sharper than health economists expected, and a broad, bipartisan range of academics, hospital administrators and policy experts has started to wonder if what had seemed impossible might be happening -- if doctors and patients have begun to change their behavior in ways that bend the so-called cost curve.
If so, it was happening just as the new health care law was coming into force, and before the Supreme Court could weigh in on it or the voters could pronounce their own verdict at the polls.
''The tectonic plates might be beginning to shift,'' said Karen Davis, the president of the Commonwealth Fund, a nonprofit research group in New York. ''It's hard to believe everything that's been tried over the last decade to slow spending wouldn't be making a difference.''
Experts were surprised, for instance, at a drop in spending on some hospitalized seniors -- people enrolled in Medicare, whose coverage the recession should not affect. They also noted that some of the states where health care spending slowed most rapidly were states that were not hit particularly badly by the recession, suggesting that other factors were at play.
''The recession just doesn't account for the numbers we're seeing,'' said David Cutler, a Harvard health economist and former adviser to President Obama. ''I think there's much more going on.''
The implications of a bend in the cost curve would be enormous. Policy makers on both sides of the aisle see rising health care costs as the central threat to household budgets and the country's fiscal health. If the growth in Medicare were to come down to a rate of only 1 percentage point a year faster than the economy's growth, the projected long-term deficit would fall by more than one-third.
The growth of health costs slowed in the 1990s as health maintenance organizations became more popular. That played a role in both gains in household income -- less money on employer-provided health benefits means more money for raises -- and in budget surpluses, economists argue.
Some experts caution that there remains too little data to determine whether the current slowdown will become permanent, or whether it is merely a blip caused by the economy's weakness.
''If there's something else going on, we don't know what it is yet,'' said Gail Wilensky, a health economist who headed Medicare and Medicaid during the administration of President George Bush. ''The most honest thing to say is that, one, the reduction in use is greater than the recession predicts; two, we don't understand why yet; and, three, you'd be foolhardy to say that we can understand it.''
She argued that the unusual decline in not just income but also wealth during the recession might be one factor cutting down on use of the health care system.
But many other health experts say that there is just enough data to start detecting trends -- even if the numbers remain murky, and the vast complexity of the national health care market puts definitive answers out of reach.
Many experts -- and the Medicare and Medicaid center itself -- point to the explosion of high-deductible plans, in which consumers have lower premiums but pay more out of pocket, as one main factor. The share of employees enrolled in high-deductible plans surged to 13 percent in 2011 from 3 percent in 2006, according to Mercer Consulting.
That means thousands of consumers with an incentive to think twice about heading to the doctor. One study by the RAND Corporation found that health spending among people who shifted into a high-deductible plan dropped 14 percent -- though the study also found that enrollees cut back on some care that tended to save money in the long run, like vaccinations.
A second factor is a dearth of expensive, novel drugs coming onto the market, experts said, as well as growing pressure to use generics. ''There just aren't as many blockbusters,'' said Professor Cutler, the Harvard economist.
Finally, and most important, health economists point to a shift toward accountable care, in which providers are paid for the quality of care, not the quantity.
There are about 164 ''accountable organizations'' in the United States, according to research by Leavitt Partners. Hundreds of other insurers and health systems have enacted some of the features of accountable care, like assigning specially trained nurse practitioners to patients with multiple chronic conditions to make sure they take their medications and to prevent hospitalizations.
Many health care experts said they believed that the shift toward publicizing medical error rates and encouraging accountable care seemed to be paying dividends -- and that providers were making changes in anticipation of the health care overhaul, which further emphasize accountable care.
''In Massachusetts, we had a lot of political pressure to understand the growth in costs as unsustainable,'' said Sandra Fenwick, the chief operating officer of Children's Hospital Boston, which has put more than 100 reforms into effect, saving millions of dollars, in the past four years. ''We had to figure out how we were going to be part of the solution, not part of the problem.''
Ms. Davis of the Commonwealth Fund said that ''a lot of the big gains have come from keeping people out of the hospital and the emergency rooms.''
''Five or seven years ago, the private sector started rewarding providers that got their patients' chronic conditions like diabetes and asthma under control,'' Ms. Davis said. ''That was couched as a quality-control measure, or putting an emphasis on chronic-disease care. But the direct result is going to be a reduction of hospitalization.''
Moreover, experts said not to discount the accountable-care revolution just because it remained small or because the changes implemented by the Obama health care law had not come into full effect yet.
''In the past, these slowdowns have occurred not just because of the direct effect of reforms, but because of greater attention to reforms changing provider and patient behavior,'' said Mark B. McClellan, the economist and doctor who ran Medicare and Medicaid under President George W. Bush.
Of course, health care experts caution that there have been times when health care spending had slowed, only to start tracking back up again.
''If you asked me, 'How confident are you that this is not just the recession?' I'd say 75 percent,'' said Professor Cutler of Harvard. But he said he was less confident that this trend would continue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Advertisements by CareNotCuts.org, which is lobbying against cutting Medicare and Medicaid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) CHARTS: Explaining a Slowdown in Health Spending: While the decline in the growth of national health care spending has largely been attributed to the recession, the changing behaviors of consumers and providers may also be a factor. As a share of the economy, health expenditures remained steady from 2009 to 2010. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HOSPITALS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); TAX LAW (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1015 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Hello, Martians. Let Moby-Dick Explain

BYLINE: By MARGARET ATWOOD. 
The author of ''The Handmaid's Tale'' and ''Oryx and Crake.'' Her most recent story is ''I'm Starved for You.''

 BODY:
LAST night the Martians touched down in the backyard. They were oval and bright pink, with two antlike antennae topped by eyes fringed with sea-anemone lashes. They said they'd come to study America.
''Why ask me?'' I said. ''America is farther south.''
''You are an observer,'' they said. ''Please tell us: Does America have a different 'flavor' from that of other countries? Is it the center of the cultural world? How does it look to outsiders?''
''America has always been different from Europe,'' I said, ''having begun as a utopian religious community. Some have seen it as a dream world where you can be what you choose, others as a mirage that lures, exploits and disappoints. Some see it as a land of spiritual potential, others as a place of crass and vulgar materialism. Some see it as a mecca for creative entrepreneurs, others as a corporate oligarchy where the big eat the small and inventions helpful to the world are stifled. Some see it as the home of freedom of expression, others as a land of timorous conformity and mob-opinion rule.'' 
''Thank you,'' said the Martians, after looking up ''thank you'' on translate.google.com . ''How may we best discover the essence of America?''
''Through its literature, would be my choice,'' I said, ''but I'm biased.''
''O.K.,'' said the Martians. ''What should we read first? Can we have marshmallows?''
''Let's start with two stories by Nathaniel Hawthorne,'' I said. '' 'The Maypole of Merry Mount,' and 'Young Goodman Brown.' Here are your marshmallows.''
Their pink antennae waved excitedly. They stored away the marshmallows as rare American artifacts. Then they read the stories, very quickly, as Martians do. ''What do these mean to contemporary America?'' they asked.
''In 'The Maypole of Merry Mount,' '' I said, ''some people having a fun party in the woods are disrupted by the Puritans, who consider them immoral. Both groups have come to America in search of 'freedom.' The Merry Mounters interpret 'freedom' as sexual and individual freedom, the Puritans as freedom to practice their own religion while outlawing the behavior of others. This fight is still going on in America: the same issues come up in every election. In my novel 'The Handmaid's Tale,' '' I added modestly, ''I've included them as 'freedom to' and 'freedom from.' ''
''We took that in high school,'' said the Martians. ''What about 'Young Goodman Brown?' ''
''So, in 'Young Goodman Brown,' '' I said, ''this Puritan goes for a walk at night and discovers that all his neighbors and relations -- including his young wife, Faith -- are members of a satanic witchcraft group. He wakes up in the morning wondering if he's had a bad dream. But ever afterward he distrusts the neighbors; and so do all Americans, because how do you know whether the neighbors are who they claim to be? Every once in a while America has a Salem-style witch hunt, during which hysteria takes over and people are tagged with the satanic label of the moment. Right now it's mostly 'terrorism,' though in some quarters it's 'liberalism' or even 'evil-green-dragon environmentalism.' ''
The Martians decided to eat one marshmallow each to see what it tasted like. Their mouths were underneath: they dealt with food by hopping onto it. ''Can we have popcorn now? Orville Redenbacher's? they said. ''And a Coke? ''
''How do you know about those things?'' I said.
''We watch American TV and Internet,'' they said, ''like everyone else in the universe. Though American cultural hegemony is slipping, we perceive: newly rich countries such as India and Brazil have developed their own mass media. Also, America's promise of democracy and egalitarianism -- the mainstay of its cultural capital, widely understood -- is being squandered. America is viewed as riddled with internal contradictions, what with vote suppression, the economic inequality protested by Occupy Wall Street, the impact of the mortgage meltdown, and the public's loss of confidence in political institutions. So, the popcorn? We can do the microwaving.'' They took out their ray guns.
''After you've read the next book,'' I said. ''It's Melville's 'Moby-Dick.' ''
The Martians riffled through Moby-Dick at top speed. Then they consulted translate.google.com for an expression that would best convey their reaction. ''Holy crap!'' they said. ''Does this mean what we think it means?'' they said.
''What do you think it means?'' I said. ''I'll do the popcorn myself: you might get the wavelength wrong.''
'' 'Moby-Dick' is about the oil industry,'' they said. ''And the Ship of American State. The owners of the Pequod are rapacious and stingy religious hypocrites. The ship's business is to butcher whales and turn them into an industrial energy product. The mates are the middle management. The harpooners, who are from races colonized by America one way or another, are supplying the expert tech labor. Elijah the prophet -- from the American artist caste -- foretells the Pequod's doom, which comes about because the chief executive, Ahab, is a megalomaniac who wants to annihilate nature.
''Nature is symbolized by a big white whale, which has interfered with Ahab's personal freedom by biting off his leg and refusing to be slaughtered and boiled. The narrator, Ishmael, represents journalists; his job is to warn America that it's controlled by psychotics who will destroy it, because they hate the natural world and don't grasp the fact that without it they will die. That's enough literature for now. Can we have popcorn?''
After inhaling the popcorn, they slurped up their Cokes , then asked me to take an Instagram on their cellphones of them with the bottles.
''Now we are going to Las Vegas to do some gambling,'' they said, ''because it's a very American thing. After that we will buzz the Grand Canyon, and then we'll go to the Boot Hill Museum in Kansas and get pictures of ourselves dressed as Wild West cowboys and honky-tonk floozies.''
''I think you should be careful,'' I said.
''Why?'' the Martians asked.
''Forgive me for pointing this out, but you look a lot like diagrams of the human female uterus,'' I said. ''Complete with fallopian tubes and ovaries.''
A human being might be insulted to be told this, but it didn't seem to bother the Martians. Having looked up ''uterus'' on translate.google.com , they said, ''Isn't the uterus a good thing? The life force and so on?''
''In some parts of America,'' I said, ''the men are obsessed with uteri. They feel that having one is potentially demonic. It's a hangover from 'Young Goodman Brown.' If they saw you hopping around -- worse still, eating popcorn -- they'd go completely berserk, and pronounce you pregnant, and put you in jail.''
''Maybe we will go to Radio City Music Hall instead,'' the Martians said.
''Good choice,'' I said. ''You won't stand out in New York, or not much. If anyone bothers you, accuse them of being specist. Throw in that you're vegans.''
''O.K.,'' they said. ''When we get back to Mars, we will start an American book club. We wish to read David Foster Wallace, not to mention Edith Wharton and Raymond Carver and tons of others. It is the writers who convey the inner truth about a nation, despite themselves, yes? Will you join us on video?''
''A pleasure,'' I said. ''Any reader is a friend of mine.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARI KANSTAD JOHNSEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (66%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1016 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: When is a Flip Not a Flop?

 BODY:
It has long been pointed out that middle- and working-class voters are influenced by politicians pushing social issues to vote against their economic interests. Some progressives now seem to be elevating a social issue -- gay marriage -- over issues of economic justice. As important an issue as gay marriage may be, it is distressing to see the vote for gay marriage by Senator Mark Grisanti of New York, who is described as ''a budding star by most Conservative measures,'' viewed as a basis to assist his re-election. Whatever good was accomplished by his vote for gay marriage will be outweighed by his giving the Republicans control of the Senate, thereby advancing their agenda on issues like minimum wage, income tax, health care, public education and fracking. 
PAUL S.,
Buffalo,
posted on nytimes.com
I will never forget the tension, drama, then joy I felt as my partner and I watched the state Senate vote on this bill. What a shame that, because some people are ''old school,'' they deny others equal rights and are thereby saving Western civilization. Over the weekend, after we attend the Bay Ridge Arts Festival, get the dog groomed and shop for groceries, we'll try our hands at unraveling Western civilization. Maybe next weekend, if we're too busy.
ROBERT P.,
Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIETAL ISSUES (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (67%); MINIMUM WAGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1017 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Unexceptionalism: A Primer

BYLINE: By E. L. DOCTOROW. 
The author, most recently of the novel ''Homer and Langley.''

 BODY:
TO achieve unexceptionalism, the political ideal that would render the United States indistinguishable from the impoverished, traditionally undemocratic, brutal or catatonic countries of the world, do the following:
PHASE ONE
If you're a justice of the Supreme Court, ignore the first sacrament of a democracy and suspend the counting of ballots in a presidential election. Appoint the candidate of your choice as president.
If you're the newly anointed president, react to a terrorist attack by invading a nonterrorist country. Despite the loss or disablement of untold numbers of lives, manage your war so that its results will be indeterminate. 
Using the state of war as justification, order secret surveillance of American citizens, data mine their phone calls and e-mail, make business, medical and public library records available to government agencies, perform illegal warrantless searches of homes and offices.
Take to torturing terrorism suspects, here or abroad, in violation of the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution, which prohibits the infliction of cruel and unusual punishment. Unilaterally abrogate the Convention Against Torture as well as the Geneva Conventions regarding the treatment of prisoners of war. Commit to indeterminate detention without trial those you decide are enemies. For good measure, trust that legislative supporters will eventually apply this policy as well to American citizens.
Suspend progressive taxation so that the wealthiest pay less proportionately than the middle class. See to it that the wealth of the country accumulates to a small fraction of the population so that the gap between rich and poor widens exponentially.
By cutting taxes and raising wartime expenditures, deplete the national treasury so that Congress and state and municipal legislatures cut back on domestic services, ensuring that there will be less money for the education of the young, for government health programs, for the care of veterans, for the maintenance of roads and bridges, for free public libraries, and so forth.
Deregulate the banking industry so as to create a severe recession in which enormous numbers of people lose their homes and jobs.
Before you leave office add to the Supreme Court justices like the ones who awarded you the presidency.
PHASE TWO
If you're one of the conservative majority of a refurbished Supreme Court, rule that corporations, no less than human beings, have the right under the First Amendment to express their political point of view. To come to this judgment, do not acknowledge that corporations lack the range of feelings or values that define what it is to be human. That humans can act against their own interest, whereas corporations cannot act otherwise than in their own interest. That the corporation's only purpose is to produce wealth, regardless of social consequences.
This decision of the court will ensure tremendous infusions of corporate money into the political process and lead to the election in national and state legislatures of majorities of de facto corporate lobbyists.
PHASE THREE
Given corporate control of legislative bodies, enact laws to the benefit of corporate interests. For example, those laws sponsored by weapons manufacturers wherein people may carry concealed weapons and shoot and kill anyone by whom they feel threatened.
Give the running of state prisons over to private corporations whose profits increase with the increase in inmate populations. See to it that a majority of prisoners are African-American.
When possible, treat immigrants as criminals.
Deplete and underfinance a viable system of free public schools and give the education of children over to private for-profit corporations.
Make college education unaffordable.
Inject religious precepts into public policy so as to control women's bodies.
Enact laws prohibiting collective bargaining. Portray trade unions as un-American.
Enact laws restricting the voting rights of possibly unruly constituencies.
Propagandize against scientific facts that would affect corporate profits. Portray global warming as a conspiracy of scientists.
Having subverted the Constitution and enervated the nation with these measures, portray the federal government as unwieldy, bumbling and shot through with elitist liberals. Create mental states of maladaptive populism among the citizenry to support this view.
PHASE FOUR
If you're a justice of the Supreme Court, decide that the police of any and all cities and towns and villages have the absolute authority to strip-search any person whom they, for whatever reason, put under arrest.
With this ruling, the reduction of America to unexceptionalism is complete.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARI KANSTAD JOHNSEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORTURE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (74%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (69%); LIBRARIES (69%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1018 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket: $19,397,662.50

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
A FULL-FLOOR penthouse at 100 11th Avenue that sold for $19,397,662.50 was the biggest sale of the week, according to city records. The penthouse, which has a 4,500- square-foot terrace, was also the last sponsor unit to sell in the building, which was designed by Jean Nouvel. 
Holly Parker, a managing director at Prudential Douglas Elliman who oversaw sales at 100 11th Avenue, on the Hudson River, said the actual sale price for the apartment was $19.75 million. She did not know why city records showed a lower number.
A 4,675-square-foot four-bedroom on the 23rd floor, the apartment had an asking price of $22 million, and it sparked a three-way bidding war. Ms. Parker said interested parties included a Nigerian buyer who offered well above $20 million. But after several weeks of uncertainty, in which the Nigerian repeatedly promised but failed to wire money for a deposit, the developer moved on to the second highest bidder, who bought the apartment through a limited liability company. Ms. Parker declined to name the buyer, but said he was not foreign, as the other two bidders were.
In addition to generating the highly charged bidding war, the apartment recently received screen time on the Bravo program ''Million Dollar Listing New York.''Ms. Parker, who appeared briefly on the show, confided that it was a little more fiction than fact.
In the episode in which a party was held in the apartment for brokers and clients, Ms. Parker said, she already had contracts out on the apartment. ''They just pretended for the show,'' she said. ''It was all make-believe.''
The building first came to market in 2007, but as with many new developments, sales lagged when the financial crisis hit and several buyers walked away from hefty deposits when they could not close their deals. In fact, the 23rd floor penthouse went into contract in 2009, but the buyer backed out and lost a $4.5 million deposit.
The listing describes this apartment as ''the jewel in the crown that is Jean Nouvel's iconic masterpiece.'' It has 14-foot-high ceilings, two fireplaces, floor-to-ceiling windows and an enclosed loggia in addition to the roof terrace. With so few high-rise buildings in the area, Ms. Parker said, ''you get 360-degree views of Manhattan and the water that are really unbelievably spectacular.''
Big Ticket includes closed sales from the previous week, ending Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 100 11th Avenue (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1019 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Before Flying Car Can Take Off, There's a Checklist

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE NEGRONI

 BODY:
THE promise of an airplane parked in every driveway, for decades a fantasy of suburban commuters and a staple of men's magazines, resurfaced this month in Manhattan. On display at the New York auto show was the Terrafugia Transition, an airplane with folding wings and a drive system that enabled it to be used on the road.
The prototype that drew all the attention with regular wing-stowing demonstrations was no mock-up assembled for a cover shoot; just a week earlier this drivable airplane had completed the first of 75 test flights it will make to verify its airworthiness for the Federal Aviation Administration. Amplifying the buzz was the news that a potential competitor from the Netherlands, the Personal Air and Land Vehicle, or PAL-V, had in recent days made a proof-of-concept flight. 
Executives from both companies promise that their Jetson-like creations will be fully certified and ready to roll into the garages of customers -- within a year for the $279,000 Terrafugia. PAL-V estimates a price of $300,000.
But there can be many delays along the road from concept to certification. For instance, government officials and the designers have had to determine which regulations -- aircraft or automotive -- take precedence when the vehicle in question is both.
In the United States, development of the flying car was given some breathing room eight years ago when the F.A.A. created a new classification, the light-sport category, to encourage the design of small, easy-to-fly aircraft. To meet the light-sport definition, the aircraft must have a single engine and an unpressurized cabin, have one or two seats and weigh no more than 1,320 pounds; maximum air speed is limited to 138 miles per hour.
Cliff Allen, vice president for sales at Terrafugia, which is based in Woburn, Mass., said that the designers of the Transition asked federal regulators in 2008 if they would consider a road-ready vehicle under the light sport-aircraft rules. ''Before they made the investment of time and effort they wanted to know that F.A.A. would be supportive,'' Mr. Allen said.
The response was positive, but there were few precedents for flying cars. In 1956, the Civil Aeronautics Administration approved the Taylor Aerocar. Six were built before Moulton Taylor's company failed, according to the F.A.A.
In 2010, the $94,000 Maverick, a rudimentary buggy that takes to the air under a powered parachute, earned certification as a light-sport aircraft. Troy Townsend, design manager and chief test pilot for the company, based in Dunnellon, Fla., said he spent spent nearly all of his time over the course of three years working through the bureaucratic snags.
''There was a lot of red tape,'' Mr. Townsend said. ''The certification process went all the way to Oklahoma and Washington, D.C.''
To avoid having to meet federal safety standards, the Maverick is not sold as a road vehicle, but as a kit car. The buyer licenses it according to the prevailing state requirements.
At Terrafugia, engineers decided to classify the car side of the Transition as a multipurpose vehicle. Compliance with National Highway Traffic Safety Administration crash standards will be done by submitting the results of computer-based simulations showing how the seat belts, crumple zones and crash structure performed.
Terrafugia sought waivers from N.H.T.S.A. on two requirements. It obtained permission to use motorcycle tires and wheels, rather than truck-rated parts, to save weight, and it received approval to use polycarbonate plastics for the windows, rather than automotive glass, which could be shattered by a bird strike.
''The F.A.A. coordinated with the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration for the Terrafugia to determine the clear responsibility between the requirements for road operations and air operations,'' the F.A.A. said.
Even though the Transition ''meets the regulatory definition of a motor vehicle,'' its 4-cylinder Rotax engine is not required to comply with federal emissions or fuel-economy standards. The Environmental Protection Agency decided to treat flying cars as aircraft, though it may reconsider if they ''become commonplace.''
Test pilots must successfully fly the Transition to demonstrate its durability in dives and spins and its ability to recover from unexpected events in flight. Then regulators will determine if it can be easily handled by pilots with light-sport licenses, which can be obtained with as little as 20 hours of instruction.
Obtaining road certification for the Dutch PAL-V ought to be straightforward. The on-road duties of the 1,500-pound, two-seat gyrocopter are based on a three-wheel chassis that leans into turns, cornering like a motorcycle.
With three wheels, it is classified as a motorcycle by N.H.T.S.A ''and subject to federal motor vehicle safety standards that are applicable to motorcycles,'' according to the agency. The same is true in Europe, said Robert Dingemanse, PAL-V's co-founder and chief executive.
While meeting motorcycle safety rules is less demanding, the main benefit of using the so-called Carver tilt technology was that it accommodated the PAL-V's high center of gravity.
For a gyrocopter -- the PAL-V gets its lift from an overhead rotor and forward thrust from a propeller mounted at the rear of the cabin -- the high center of gravity was a seemingly insurmountable problem, at least until the tilting Carver design came along. In the PAL-V, the center of gravity is around the height of the seated driver's shoulders, which would make the plane prone to tumbling over in turns if it did not tilt.
''It stays stable in all situations,'' Mr. Dingemanse said. ''You can run it like a sports car.''
Having achieved road certification in Europe, the next challenge is airworthiness. Mr. Dingemanse said the team he had hired to help get aviation approval was optimistic after the proof-of-concept flight.
The PAL-V's approval by the European Aviation Safety Agency would not automatically qualify it in the United States. But, Mr. Dingemanse says, once European authorities certify the airplane, other nations should not present significant challenges. PAL-V executives predict that they will start producing flying cars in Europe in 2014.
Whether or not these sell-by dates prove realistic, the Terrafugia, PAL-V and Maverick are prodding a new line of thinking that could at last unleash flying cars from the realm of science fiction.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FULL FLEDGED: The production prototype of the Terrafugia Transition made its first test flight this month. Below left, wings folded and road-ready. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TERRAFUGIA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(AU1)
THEN AND NOW: Top, the Taylor Aerocar, attended here by its inventor, was flight-certified in 1956. The Dutch-built PAL-V gyrocopter is seeking certification in Europe. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EXPERIMENTAL AIRCRAFT ASSOCIATION
 PAL-V)(AU5) CHART: What It Takes to Get Off the Ground: Terrafugia plans to deliver the Transition flying car to customers within a year. First it must certify compliance with the rules of several federal agencies. Here is an overview of the regulatory matters the company is working on. (AU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); SUBURBS (73%); APPROVALS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EXPERIMENTAL AIRCRAFT ASSOCIATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (76%); NETHERLANDS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1020 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Mean Kids

BYLINE: By DAVE CULLEN. 
Dave Cullen is the author of ''Columbine.''

 BODY:
THE BULLY SOCIETY
School Shootings and the Crisis of Bullying in America's Schools
By Jessie Klein
305 pp. New York University Press. $29.95.
Bully. Such a poisonous word for those of us who endured one. ''Tormentor'' feels more appropriate. What drives a person to torture another? To make life intolerable, until the bullied, dreading the thought of one more vicious homeroom encounter, can only wonder: Why is he doing it? When will it end? Will I make it through high school alive?
Jessie Klein, an assistant professor of sociology and criminal justice at Adelphi University, seems a good candidate to address this scourge on American schools. She has labored for decades in the field, as a high school teacher, a social worker and a conflict resolution coordinator. For her new book, ''The Bully Society,'' she conducted over 60 interviews and reviewed mountains of press accounts. And she gets her victims, exuding empathy, insight and a rare ability to inhabit the teenage psyche. 
''The Bully Society'' vividly recounts story after story of kids mired in high school hell and struggling to cope. Refreshingly absent are lapses into plodding, imperial professorial lingo. Klein writes in a crisp, engaging voice. Yet her painful scenes of bullying, misery and hopelessness fail to cohere into a satisfying whole. Victims are whisked on and off the page to amass a huge volume of testimony, but with almost no recurring characters, no narrative evolution, no sense of progression. Klein rightly gives voice to the throttled victims -- their moment is overdue. But her examples pile up, relentlessly, for over 200 pages. What's missing, astonishingly, are the bullies' perspectives. What drives them?
Klein ticks off obvious factors like race, class and sexuality, but the root of all evil, and her primary concern, is masculinity and the imperative to prove it. (The phrase ''gender policing'' appears repeatedly.) ''Instead of the range of emotions (marginally) available to girls,'' Klein writes, ''boys are permitted to feel only anger and are encouraged to control their other feelings,'' to present a mask of masculinity.
Her argument amounts to Proof by Anecdote. She tells stories of bullied children, identifies commonalities in the victims and extrapolates motivations to the bullies. That's an odd leap. It's like studying robbery by compiling statistics on the targets, discovering they tend to be older, poorer and darker-skinned, and concluding that robbery is driven by animosity toward old, poor, dark-skinned people.
Klein's observation that boys feel pressured to display ''flamboyant heterosexuality'' is quite interesting, but the causal link to bullying is elusive. Are the bullies nursing secret insecurities, or are they so hopped up on masculinity that they're offended by weaklings who aren't? Or is it a little of each? Or are there two classes of bullies operating from opposite masculinity-induced drives? No clue in this account.
Klein takes a great deal at face value. Mean girls dismiss outcasts for failing to wear Coach or Prada, and Klein dutifully classifies the motive as economic. Is it really about the Coach bag, though, or are the bullies just exploiting fashion inferiority to ridicule a girl they've already marked for exclusion? There is a class component, surely -- this stuff is complicated. Yet Klein settles for simple, overt answers. She trusts the bullies to understand their own motives and divulge them openly with each insult.
The book swerves further out of the field of logic when Klein conflates the motivations of bullies and school shooters. Her argument is grounded in a powerful truth: a bona fide link between bullies and many school shooters. In recent years, two exhaustive studies of shooters were conducted by the F.B.I. and a joint project of the Secret Service and the Department of Education. The Secret Service study found that 71 percent of shooters had been bullied, threatened, attacked or injured. But the report also found that far more shooters had experienced a profound sense of failure or loss -- a staggering 98 percent. This included the loss of loved ones or romantic relationships (51 percent) and ''loss of status'' (66 percent). It is possible these losses coincided with bullying. Klein, however, claims ''nearly all'' the shooters she studied were ''reacting to oppressive social hierarchies.'' I found this puzzling, until I discovered her heavy reliance on press reports.
The most interesting question this book raises concerns the fragility of certain scholarship in the social sciences. Early reports of tragedies are notoriously wrong, speculating about motive months or years before officials release most of the relevant evidence. Reporters and ''witnesses'' -- schoolmates who often never knew the killers -- bend their accounts to fit a profile of shooters that both the Secret Service and the F.B.I. have concluded is fiction. Klein perpetuates this imaginary profile, including the portrait of shooters as outcasts. The Secret Service said 41 percent of shooters belonged to the mainstream, while only 34 percent thought of themselves or were characterized by others as ''loners,'' and 12 percent had ''no close friends.''
The reporting problem gets camouflaged by repeated layers of ''scholarship.'' One scholar bases a paper on faulty reporting, which gets cited by another scholar, then another -- until a book like this appears with a bibliography full of academic citations. Academic weight increases as the research grows farther from the source, which is rotten at the core.
Klein's first chapter begins on a start/lingly false note, asserting that Seung-Hui Cho staged his 2007 attack at Virginia Tech in response to bullying. The overwhelming consensus is that unlike most shooters, Cho appeared to be deeply mentally ill -- a condition that dwarfed external factors. This goes unmentioned here.
Worse, Klein positions the 1999 Columbine massacre as her prime example. She regurgitates botched reporting that was debunked years ago, exhuming resilient myths about jock-targeting and the Trench Coat Mafia. The shooters, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, left journals and videos to explain themselves, in which they complain about every petty topic imaginable, from slow drivers to the WB network, but not once, mysteriously, about bullies. The closest Harris comes is complaining about feeling left out, in a brief passage contradicting nearly every/thing else he wrote. Yet Klein cherry-picks to present the boys as bullied outcasts hunting jocks.
Her most potent testimony arrives in Harris's ''suicide note,'' which she features prominently. The note was a hoax, discredited shortly after the massacre. Klein also claims Harris and Klebold were enraged at jocks for gay-bashing them, and quotes the soccer player Ben Oakley stating that most of the Trench Coat Mafia were ''gay.'' Her use of the gay-bashing quotation is symptomatic of her overreach. I know how badly out of context it's taken because she drew it from an article I wrote on the fallacy of the gay rumors. Oakley's statement illustrated the flimsiness of ''witness'' accounts: he didn't even know the killers.
Klein isn't the first to be misled by the Columbine myths or the weak case that bullying drove Harris and Klebold. Harder to understand is the logic her book is built on. Victims of bullying who respond with gunfire are a tiny minority, and unrepresentative of the larger population of the bullied.
''The Bully Society'' does raise some profound questions. Klein shows, convincingly, that a hypermasculine imperative haunts many boys and drives some to violence. Yet a vast majority of them don't bully, at least not habitually. Why are they immune? Or what causes bullying to ignite violence in the few? Is there a predisposition in those kids, or are their motives bound up tightly with other drives? We await that analysis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ODILON DIMIER/PHOTOALTO -- CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BULLYING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (90%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); MEN (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: The Bully Society: School Shootings and the Crisis of Bullying in America's Schools (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1021 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Social Networks of Disease

BYLINE: By DENNIS ROSEN. 
Dennis Rosen is a pediatric pulmonologist who practices in Boston.

 BODY:
TINDERBOX
How the West Sparked the AIDS Epidemic and How the World Can Finally Overcome It
By Craig Timberg and Daniel Halperin
Illustrated. 421 pp. The Penguin Press. $29.95.
In ''Partner to the Poor,'' the medical anthropologist Paul Farmer writes that ''the failure to contemplate social and economic aspects of epidemics stunts our understanding of them.'' To this one might add: And hinders our ability to contain and defeat them. Craig Timberg, a journalist for The Washington Post, and Daniel Halperin, an epidemiologist and medical anthropologist at the University of North Carolina, have collaborated on ''Tinderbox'' precisely to explore these very aspects of the AIDS epidemic in Africa. They set out to identify why AIDS emerged when it did; why Africans were so disproportionally affected; and why some countries have succeeded in reducing infection rates while others have not.
The last two questions are especially pressing, as AIDS continues to spread in large sections of Africa. Currently, South Africans turning 15 have a 50 percent risk of becoming infected with H.I.V. Timberg and Halperin argue that while treatment is important, prevention is even more so, and their frustration that not enough is being done is palpable. ''Putting millions more people on medicine, while an urgent humanitarian priority, should not distract from the imperative of preventing new infections.'' 
After AIDS first appeared in the United States in 1981, it became clear that there were in fact three distinct epidemics going on. The disease primarily afflicted intravenous drug users, the recipients of contaminated blood products and homosexual men and sex workers. Ultimately, the best responses would take into account the particularities of each population. Needle exchanges succeeded in reducing H.I.V. transmission among drug users; the screening of blood products minimized the risk of infection from transfusions; and condoms have been effective in decreasing the dangers of sexual contact. Only by targeting the specific risks for each group did these efforts succeed.
The AIDS epidemic in Africa has a different profile, and requires different remedies. H.I.V. is spread mainly by heterosexual contact. More women are infected than men. And the proportion of the population that acquires the disease is much greater there than anywhere else.
Two factors appear to have especially accelerated H.I.V.'s spread in Africa. One is the relatively low number of circumcised men in some areas. It has been found that circumcision reduces infection in men by as much as 76 percent. The other is multiple sexual relationships, a common practice within some African societies. One large survey in Uganda found more than half of women and men over 30 had at least one concurrent sexual relationship, with the liaisons lasting on average for more than two years. The mathematics of epidemiology are unforgiving: such sexual relationships place many more people at risk of infection.
Many Africans have recognized how vulnerable this kind of sexual behavior makes people, and have sought to change it. Popular entertainers are performing songs with explicit messages (''Avoid picking up just anybody / Think before you make love / Even if you desire someone, be careful. Think first''). In Uganda the government has sponsored campaigns mixing messages of fear with advocacy of spousal faithfulness, or ''zero grazing,'' a farming term familiar to Ugandans. The president, Yoweri Museveni, a onetime born-again Christian, has even advocated polygamy over serial, concurrent relationships, and he has received support from churches that had previously called for the abolition of the practice. The success of these campaigns has been impressive: between 1989 and 1995, casual sexual relationships in Uganda reportedly declined by 60 percent. Many observers credit these changes for the drop in Uganda's AIDS prevalence rate from 15 percent in 1991 to 5 percent in 2001. Or as Timberg and Halperin put it: ''Zero grazing had worked.''
What about condoms? During the early '90s only 55 percent of Ugandan men reported ever using them. Though actively promoted by Westerners, they were thought to undermine zero grazing by encouraging casual sex, and so Museveni banned condom advertisements in 1991.
Still, the key is to be flexible, to direct efforts to fit the particular circumstances. Condom use is just one component of a varied ''ABC'' approach to AIDS prevention (abstinence, be faithful, condoms). It took time, however, for professionals to recognize the importance of such flexibility. Halperin, who worked for the United States Agency for International Development in Africa in the 1990s, recalls being dressed down by a senior official: ''I don't want to hear . . . about ABC. We do condoms.'' Only in December 2002 did ABC become official agency policy.
Despite the success of the zero grazing campaign in Uganda and similar campaigns elsewhere, Western donors have been reluctant to support efforts to modify sexual behavior. ''Discussions of variations in this area gradually acquired a taboo status,'' Timberg and Halperin write. They claim that one reason the former South African president, Thabo Mbeki, resisted Western assistance and neglected the fight against AIDS in his country (at an estimated cost of 330,000 lives) was that ''he grew supremely irritated at portrayals of Africans as inherently hypersexual.''
Timberg and Halperin's book constitutes a strong warning to those who would disregard the cultural specificities of those one is trying to serve, whether individuals or entire societies. But the authors stand on less sturdy ground when they also argue that the spread of AIDS is a direct consequence of the Western colonization of Africa in the 19th and 20th centuries. It is certainly true that colonialism's legacy included great social upheaval, as well as networks of roads and railways that ultimately facilitated the spread of infectious disease. But they oversimplify the complexities of causation in writing that ''colonialism had had the effect of transforming the region into a tinderbox capable of creating the AIDS epidemic. Then it fanned the flames.'' Elsewhere they acknowledge that ''epidemics result from an accumulation of millions of collective actions, rather than individual moments of poor judgment or bad luck.'' Surely many of those actions would have occurred within African societies as they modernized even in the absence of colonialism.
Timberg and Halperin's broader concern is that the West's response to the AIDS epidemic reflects a paternalist mind-set that stems from the colonial past: ''Where once there were conquerors and the conquered, now the relationship too often is understood narrowly, in terms of saviors and the saved.'' Nearly anything Westerners try to accomplish in Africa can be deemed paternalist by one measure or another. But insofar as Timberg and Halperin are urging Westerners to truly understand the cultures they are seeking to assist, they are well worth heeding.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS FARRELL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (93%); EPIDEMICS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); WRITERS (72%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (71%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%)

TITLE: Tinderbox: How the West Sparked the AIDS Epidemic and How the World Can Finally Overcome It (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1022 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2448 words

HEADLINE: 100 Years Of Staying Put

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER and NOAH ROSENBERG

 BODY:
WHEN Lillian Jacobs was 2, in 1911 or '12, her family moved from the Lower East Side into a tenement building on East 84th Street, just off York Avenue, then known as Avenue A. Her parents ran a candy store on the building's ground floor, catering to the newly arrived immigrants from Germany, Hungary, Austria and Ireland.
People came and went over the years; apartment houses were built and tradesmen's shops disappeared, along with the family candy store. But the character of the area, and specifically this part of East 84th Street, has largely remained the same. The brownstones, built at the turn of the 20th century and flanked by trees planted in more recent years, have stayed true to the block.
So has Ms. Jacobs. 
Since arriving on East 84th Street, Ms. Jacobs, who is now 102, has moved to four different addresses, but always stayed on the street; her five homes have all been within 1,200 feet of one another.
''I don't know why,'' she said last fall in her sunlit apartment on the 17th floor of a building near First Avenue, where she and her husband, George, moved two decades ago. ''But it seemed to be destined that I stay on East 84th.''
Ms. Jacobs is already a demographic rarity: she was one of 2,126 city residents 100 and over recorded in the 2010 census. But even though very few New Yorkers can claim a century spent in essentially one place, the notion of maintaining roots on a street is not entirely uncommon, said Andrew A. Beveridge, a Queens College sociologist.
A decade ago, Professor Beveridge recalled, one of his students interviewed a man of about 100 who had lived his entire life in the same house in Richmond Hill, Queens.
Bruce D. Haynes, a sociologist at the University of California, Davis, who grew up in Harlem, said that his own father spent the better part of 65 years in a house on Convent Avenue in its Sugar Hill section, until his death in 1995.
''I'd argue that these are the people who make the city what it is,'' said Professor Haynes, whose grandfather, George Edmund Haynes, was a co-founder of the National Urban League. ''They are the character of the city.''
Indeed, Ms. Jacobs's stretch of East 84th Street, a tree-lined residential area near the heart of Yorkville, once the city's thriving German community in the northeastern quarter of the Upper East Side, has a number of longtimers.
Bettymae F. Cronheim, 92, a teacher retired from the Ethical Culture School, has lived for more than 60 years in a second-floor apartment in a five-story building at No. 510; she recalled taking her children to visit the candy store run by Ms. Jacobs's parents.
Henry J. Stern, 76, the former city parks commissioner, has lived for 50 years in a third-floor apartment in the same building. When he first arrived in 1961, he said, a young boy, Stephen Winer, lived down the hall. Mr. Winer, now 58, returned to the building after college, has spent much of his adult life there, and again, lives down the hall from Mr. Stern.
''I've seen him grow,'' Mr. Stern said. ''I've seen him go to college, get married. He's seen me get married, have kids.''
''The life cycle is repeated in front of your neighbors,'' Mr. Stern added.
A 1997 newsletter of the East 84th Street Neighborhood Association noted that the Upper East Side was mostly farmland and country estates in the late 1700s and early 1800s; it was after the Second and Third Avenue elevated subway lines opened in the late 1800s that brownstones and tenement buildings began to be built in Yorkville.
It was into one of these tenements that Ms. Jacobs and her parents, Louis and Anna Rosenblatt, moved, in 1911 or '12, from another tenement in Lower Manhattan. (Ms. Jacobs said her parents had always told her they arrived when she was 2.) The 1913 edition of the Trow's directory for Manhattan, lists Louis Rosenblatt -- ''variety 500 1/2 E84th'' -- as of August 1912.
Her father and mother, immigrant Jews from Austria and Russia, respectively, spoke little English at first, Ms. Jacobs said. Her father had been educated in Europe, but her mother, who had worked in a clothing factory in Lower Manhattan, signed her name with an ''X.''
At first, the family lived in two rooms behind the candy store, which also sold toys, cigars, newspapers and comic books. Her mother created window displays involving toy soldiers, dolls, tea sets and the like. ''People began to come from blocks all over,'' Ms. Jacobs recalled.
The family later moved to an apartment above the shop; Ms. Jacobs described the building as ''a real tenement house.''
The family had a washtub in the kitchen, and shared a toilet in the hall with neighbors. ''Living was very modest,'' she said, adding that it was hard to invite friends over, unless they were familiar with tenement life.
Ms. Jacobs, who was an only child, attended Public School 96 (now closed) at 81st Street and Avenue A, and frequented the nearby Webster branch of the New York Public Library.
A black leather ledger from those days, labeled Children's Registration Book, which young borrowers signed, was recently found in the branch's archives. The signature ''Lily Rosenblatt'' appears in December 1916 (she would have been 7), along with her father's name and the 500 1/2 East 84th Street address.
The families in the Rosenblatts' building included an Italian cobbler, his wife and their eight children, aged 3 to 15, the 1925 county census shows. Other residents were from England, Romania, Hungary and Ireland, with occupations including stock clerk, butcher, ''fish man,'' lettering worker, wood finisher and grocer, the census shows.
Ms. Jacobs recalled helping her father distribute newspapers in the mornings to houses on the block, and playing games in the street, where the only traffic was an occasional horse and wagon.
Around 1928, the family moved half a block west to a town house at No. 429, after the owner offered to rent them the top floor. ''That was a step up,'' Ms. Jacobs recalled. A 1930 census interview shows that the household had a radio; not every one did.
Not long after, around 1930, the family moved again, this time to a building with an elevator at No. 332, west of First Avenue. By then, Ms. Jacobs was dating her future husband, George Jacobs.
''We were talking about possibly getting married,'' she recalled. ''But the economy was very bad, and he wrote me a letter. He said, 'I feel so terrible.' ''
He was earning $8 a week at the time. ''And he said, 'I have to help my parents somewhat. I don't think we'll be able to keep our date of marriage.' ''
Ms. Jacobs's father suggested that they all live together: '' 'We are in the store all day until 10 o'clock at night, and the apartment can be yours,' '' he told her.
The couple married in 1931, and eventually had an apartment of their own in the building. Ms. Jacobs said she considered herself lucky. Like many, she has memories of the Depression, when businessmen stood on the corner, selling apples, a nickel apiece.
When her parents decided to buy their own building, Ms. Jacobs said, a relative urged them to look in Brooklyn. But they settled on a four-story walk-up at No. 502 East 84th, just steps from their candy store. It had its own storefront and a small building in the rear.
Lillian and George Jacobs moved into the top floor, which had been renovated into a single, large apartment. There, they raised two daughters and built their lives. While her husband practiced law, Ms. Jacobs worked at Ramaz, a nearby modern Orthodox Jewish school.
Her title was assistant to the principal, but that did not begin to describe the work she did, said Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, 80, the principal, who is the son of the school's founder.
''She was the registrar, the admissions officer, the fund-raiser, the director of food services, the nurse, the school psychologist, the parent liaison -- I am not gilding the lily here,'' he said.
One student in the 1940s was a young Michael B. Mukasey, who went on to become a judge and later the United States attorney general. Mr. Mukasey, who stayed in touch with Ms. Jacobs, said he called her from the White House when his appointment was announced.
In those years around World War II, Ms. Jacobs said, there were frightening times on East 84th Street. She remembered Nazi sympathizers standing on the street corner, shouting into megaphones about getting rid of the Jews.
IT was during the war, in 1944, when George Lynes was 7, that his family moved to a town house at No. 427. He remembered, as Ms. Jacobs did, playing street games, in his case, stoopball and stickball, with manhole covers serving as bases.
Some days, he said, it was possible to catch a whiff from the Jacob Ruppert Brewery to the north. Mr. Lynes, who spent a career in college admissions, eventually returned to No. 427, where he lives today with his wife, Jane and their son, Josh.
Elizabeth C. Parker, another resident, arrived on the 400 block in 1959, pregnant with her son, Chauncey. She recalled how barren the block felt. ''I don't remember that there were any trees,'' she said.
Families were close-knit, she said: parents sat on their stoops, watching their children play.
Today, Dr. Parker, 81, a retired professor of art history at Fordham University, shares the same house, now divided, with Chauncey and his family.
Chauncey Parker, now 51, a senior adviser on crime prevention strategies to the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., said this stretch of East 84th Street has thrived because of an energetic neighborhood association, an informal block leader, Susan Rooney, and Percy Jones, a handyman from Harlem, who tends gardens, makes repairs and does other odd jobs. And parents still sit on their stoops.
''This is a place where people keep an eye out for each other,'' Mr. Parker said.
Bill Voelkle, 73, who moved into a five-story apartment building at No. 451 in 1968, recalled helping residents remove graffiti and have trees planted on the street. Mr. Voelkle, who is a curator of medieval and Renaissance manuscripts at the Morgan Library and Museum, still organizes book sales for the neighborhood's annual festival; another resident, Ralph Schaller, owner of the German butcher shop Schaller & Weber, sells hot sausages there.
One quiet morning recently, Mr. Stern, the former parks commissioner, pondered his street's ''drowsy'' quality.
''Even in New York, where everything is supposed to be moving at warp speed, there are some places which have the quality, a certain timelessness,'' Mr. Stern said. ''The world may be changing, but 84th Street is pretty much the same.''
BY the 1980s, George and Lillian Jacobs were in their 70s and were encouraged by their children to move into a building with an elevator. ''We looked all over for a rental,'' Ms. Jacobs said, but when they ultimately found an apartment they liked, it was on East 84th, again, in a high-rise at No. 351, west of First Avenue.
They kept the building at No. 502 as a rental property; its rear cottage became a favorite landing spot for writers like Judith Thurman, the essayist, and later, the novelist Donna Tartt, who lived there for about a decade, until 2004.
''It was a perfect retreat,'' Ms. Tartt said, ''like a tree house or a doll's house you'd dream of living in as a child, with its own secret garden.''
''It was also very quiet, and I could work there in perfect seclusion, reading and writing.''
Half a block west, Marie Brenner, the Vanity Fair writer, has lived since 1985 in a town house across 84th Street from No. 429, where Ms. Jacobs and her parents lived in the 1920s. ''We think of it as a bit of a Sicilian village,'' Ms. Brenner said.
''The block itself has an incredibly benevolent, lovely feel,'' said Ms. Thurman, who now lives in a town house there.
And there was much intrigue at No. 434 East 84th Street, one of the city's last wood-frame buildings and home of a German merchants' club.
''It was always said that during the war it had been a hiding place for German spies,'' said the novelist Susanna Moore, who lived in a town house across the street in the 1980s.
Ms. Moore remembered being outraged one day in 1986, when she went outside and saw that No. 434 had been razed.
Her daughter, Lulu Sylbert, who walked to classes at the nearby Brearley School when she was a child, said she was heartbroken when she and her mother moved away from East 84th Street when she was in middle school.
''The house, the garden, and the walk between 84th Street and Brearley constituted my entire universe for 10 years,'' Ms. Sylbert said. ''That block has for me the fairy-tale quality of childhood.''
Ms. Sylbert, who now lives in Brooklyn, said she had recently finished writing a novel, part of which is set on the 400 block of East 84th.
For her childhood friend and neighbor, Casey Schwartz, the block held a different sort of intrigue. She remembered climbing a favorite tree in her backyard and, like Harriet the Spy, sneaking into the gardens behind different houses.
''It's a perfect place to be a snoop,'' said Ms. Schwartz, 29, now a writer for Newsweek and The Daily Beast. Sadly, the tree died in last October's storm, she added.
MS. JACOBS'S husband, George, died in 2004 at 96, after 72 years of marriage. Ms. Jacobs has remained in their apartment. In October 2009, when she turned 100, she received flowers from her landlord, and a congratulatory message ran in the lobby for two days. ''I'm the oldest here,'' she noted. ''There were two women who were going to turn 100 and were going to have a party, but unfortunately, they died before.''
She and an aide have often walked along 84th Street, accompanied at times by her grandson, Larry Kamerman, 51, a filmmaker who has been videotaping his grandmother since 1999.
Mr. Kamerman is one of two of Ms. Jacobs's relatives who live in the property she owns at No. 502. The other is her great-granddaughter, Danielle Weingarden, 27, an accountant.
Ms. Weingarden lives on the same top floor where Ms. Jacobs once resided; and although the space has been divided into two apartments, she still uses the kitchen, dining room and bedroom that were once used by her great-grandparents. ''My first thought,'' she said, ''has always been just how special it is to be here, how much history there is here.''
Back at No. 351, Ms. Jacobs offered a visitor her view of the street. ''I want to show you one of the buildings that you can see from here,'' she said, rising from her chair and walking to the window, refusing any assistance. She tapped on the glass as she spoke. ''That address is 332,'' she said, pointing down at the building where she lived in the 1930s.
Staying on the street had not been part of any plan, she said. ''It just happened,'' she added. ''So, 84th Street has always been my home.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CONSTANCY: Lillian Jacobs, top, now 102, moved to East 84th Street, left, at 2. Her parents ran a candy store, right, in the front of the building where they lived. She has since moved four times, but has always stayed on the same street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
NEW YORK CITY MUNICIPAL ARCHIVES
COLLECTION OF LILLIAN JACOBS)
AND DURABILITY: Brownstones, like No. 429, left, with staircase, where Ms. Jacobs once lived, have endured. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
A WALK AROUND THE BLOCK: Ms. Jacobs, above center, strolls with the help of an aide around the neighborhood. Residents, below, include, clockwise from left, Stephen Winer, who has lived most of his adult life there
her great-granddaughter, Danielle Weingarden, who lives in an apartment once occupied by Ms. Jacobs
Henry J. Stern, a former city parks commissioner and a 50-year resident
and Bettymae F. Cronheim, who has lived in the same apartment for more than 60 years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) MAP: A Century in the Neighborhood: Lillian Jacobs arrived on East 84th Street when she was 2. She has moved four more times over the ensuing 100 years, but has never left East 84th. This map shows her five homes and the approximate dates that she lived at each address. All of her addresses are within a 1,200-foot stretch of the street. (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); SOCIOLOGY (86%); CHILDREN (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1023 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: The Post-Cash, Post-Credit-Card Economy

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA. 
A technology reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
YOU walk into a cafe, order a macchiato, give your name to the barista and let him give you the once-over. That's it. Payment made.
At Home Depot on a purposeful Sunday, you load your cart with lumber and light bulbs and instead of pulling out your wallet, you type in your cellphone number and a PIN. Payment made.
In London, travelers can buy train tickets with their phones -- and hold up the phones for the conductor to see. And in Starbucks coffee shops here in the United States, customers can wave their phones in front of the cash register and without even an abracadabra, pay for their soy chai lattes.
Money is not what it used to be, thanks to the Internet. And the pocketbook may soon be destined for the dustbin of history -- or at least if some technology companies get their way. 
The cellphone increasingly contains the essentials of what we need to make transactions. ''Identification, payment and personal items,'' as Hal Varian, the chief economist at Google, pointed out in a new survey conducted by the Pew Research Center. ''All this will easily fit in your mobile device and will inevitably do so.''
The phone holds and records plenty more vital information: It keeps track of where you are, what you like and who your peers are. That data can all be leveraged to sell you things you never knew you needed.
The survey, released earlier this month by the Pew Research Center's Internet and American Life Project along with Elon University's Imagining the Internet Center, asked just over 1,000 technologists and social scientists to opine on the future of the wallet in 2020. Nearly two-thirds agreed that ''cash and credit cards will have mostly disappeared'' and been replaced with ''smart'' devices able to carry out a transaction. But a third of the survey respondents countered that consumers would fear for the security of financial transactions over a mobile device and worry about surrendering so much data about their purchasing habits.
Sometimes, those with fewer options are the ones to embrace change the fastest. In Kenya, a service called M-Pesa (pesa is money in Swahili) acts like a banking system for those who may not have a bank account. With a rudimentary cellphone, M-Pesa users can send and receive money through a network of money agents, including cellphone shops. And in India, several phone carriers allow their customers to pay utility bills and transfer small amounts of money to friends and family over their cellphones.
In the United States, several technology companies, big and small, are busy trying to make it easier for us to buy and sell all kinds of things without our wallets. A start-up, WePay, describes itself as a service that allows the smallest merchant -- say, a dog walker -- to get paid; the company verifies the reputations of payers and sellers by analyzing, among other things, their Facebook accounts. Bill Clerico, its founder, reckoned that in the future, with ever swelling piles of digital data, he could gauge an individual's credit worthiness or eligibility for a mortgage.
A BRITISH start-up, called Blockchain, offers a free iPhone application allowing customers to use a crypto-currency called bitcoins, which users can mint on their computers.
A company called Square began by offering a small accessory to enable food cart vendors and other small merchants to accept credit cards on phones and iPads. Square's latest invention allows customers to register an account with Square merchants and pay simply by saying their names. How does the merchant know the customer is who she says she is? With no more than a gaze. The customer's picture pops up on the merchant's iPad.
It is still early days for each of these companies, and as the Pew survey suggests, it is difficult to say whether they will gain widespread acceptance or freak people out -- or whether, indeed, they will improve our well-being. With so much vital data in our cellphones, what happens when we lose them? Could we one day load up the cellphones of our teenage children with money for cab rides but not beer? Would cash be reserved for purchases of sex, drugs and, in repressive countries, banned books? Or just for people with bad digital reputations?
Perhaps one of the most revealing moments on the road to future money came with the arrival of a mobile payment system Google announced with great fanfare last fall. Google Wallet, as it is called, has been designed to sit in your mobile phone, be linked to your credit card, and let you pay by tapping your phone on a special reader, using what is known as near field technology. But the future, alas, hasn't come as quickly as Google would like. To date, Google Wallet works on only four kinds of phones, and not many merchants are equipped to accept near field technology.
Meanwhile, PayPal, which allows people to make payments over the Internet, has quietly begun to persuade its users to turn to their cellphones. PayPal posted $31 billion in total transactions last year and became the fastest-growing segment of eBay, its parent company.
''The physical wallet, which had no innovation in the last 50 years, will become an artifact,'' John J. Donahoe, the chief executive of eBay, told me recently. The wallet would move into the cloud, and ideally, from his perspective, into PayPal. No more would the consumer worry about losing a wallet, nor about organizing coupons and loyalty cards. Everything, he declared, would be contained within PayPal. It would also enable the company to collect vast amounts of data about customer habits, purchases and budgets.
PayPal recently rolled out a payment system at 2,000 Home Depot stores nationwide, allowing customers to pay simply by typing in their cellphone numbers, along with a PIN. It plans to install similar kiosks later this year at other chains, including a fast food establishment.
Mr. Donahoe said he wanted his company to become ''a mall in your pocket.''
I recently described PayPal's plans to Alessandro Acquisti, an economist who studies digital privacy at Carnegie Mellon University. Mr. Acquisti smiled. If today all you need to do is enter your phone number and PIN when you visit a store, perhaps tomorrow, he said, that store will be able to detect your phone by its unique identifier as soon as you enter. Perhaps in the not-too-distant future, he went on, you won't have to shop at all. Your vast piles of shopping data would be instead collected, analyzed and used to tell you exactly what you need: a new motorcycle from Ducati, perhaps, or purple rain boots in the next size for your growing child. Money will be seamlessly taken from your account. A delivery will arrive at your doorstep. ''In the future, maybe you won't have to pay,'' Mr. Acquisti offered, only half in jest. ''The transaction will be made for you.''

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY EVAH FAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (71%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (71%); INDIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1024 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DVD; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: Directors Heading Down New Paths

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
Something to Live For
Often overlooked in the filmography of George Stevens, the 1952 ''Something to Live For'' would prove to be his last modestly budgeted, intimately scaled work, before his career was overtaken by lumbering white elephants like ''Giant'' (1956) and ''The Greatest Story Ever Told'' (1965).
For the usually straightforward Stevens it is a remarkably experimental work, beginning with a series of enigmatic dissolves -- a curtain rises, revealing an opening-night Broadway audience; a woman awakes, in a close-up printed in eerie slow motion, and looks at us through her fingers; a man glances anxiously out the window of a cab, as it passes through a crowded, nighttime Times Square. Presented completely outside the narrative's time frame, these haunting, disconnected images seem like something out of a Jean Cocteau film. 
Using spatially disorienting compositions and a nonstop score by Victor Young, Stevens sustains the dreamlike quality of the opening sequence through this story of a recovering alcoholic (Ray Milland, recapitulating his Oscar-winning role in ''The Lost Weekend'') who tries to help a rising actress with a drinking problem (Joan Fontaine). Like Douglas Sirk's ''All That Heaven Allows'' or Nicholas Ray's ''Bigger Than Life,'' the film is one of the many '50s melodramas that express discontent with the era's nuclear family conformism: Milland is drawn to Fontaine because she shares his sense of isolation and entrapment, something his strong, cheerful wife (a marvelous Teresa Wright) will never understand.
In one brilliantly staged sequence Stevens places Milland and Wright in the foreground, as they slip into an air-clearing conversation that may end their marriage; in the deep background are the couple's two rambunctious boys, struggling with a stepladder that threatens to collapse on a table stacked with Christmas dinnerware. The metaphor is clean and precise, the tension is almost unbearable, and the scene is staged with an apparent ease and naturalness that represents the classical Hollywood tradition at its most elegant and expressive. (Olive Films, $24.95, not rated)
Bird of Paradise
King Vidor's South Seas romance ''Bird of Paradise'' (1932) has circulated for so long in degraded public-domain prints that its reappearance as a Blu-ray, sourced from an original nitrate print from the private collection of the producer David O. Selznick, seems like a rebirth.
Part of a Depression-era vogue for primitivism that included F. W. Murnau's ''Tabu'' (and culminated, perhaps, in ''King Kong,'' which Selznick produced a year later), the film imagines a Polynesian paradise (filmed on locations in Hawaii and Catalina Island) where an American yachtsman (Joel McCrea) falls in love with a local beauty (the regal Dolores del Rio). She, alas, is scheduled to be sacrificed to the volcano god in the very near future, and for a white man even to look at her is forbidden.
Vidor (''The Crowd,''''Hallelujah!'') was probably Hollywood's pre-eminent social realist, but ''Bird of Paradise'' is pure fantasy, complete with a spectacular village dance choreographed by Busby Berkeley. The film dreams of freedom from restraints both economic (no Depression here, because there is no work to be out of) and sexual, taking advantage of the South Seas setting to present an expanse of flesh that seems copious even by pre-code standards. In one phosphorescently lighted underwater sequence McCrea and del Rio (or their body doubles) go for a night swim. Only a close inspection of the high-definition image reveals they are wearing anything more than their birthday suits.
When Delmer Daves remade ''Bird of Paradise'' in 1951, attitudes had shifted to the point where Daves's protagonist (Louis Jourdan) could unhesitatingly turn his back on the corruption of the West, and embrace the ''innocence'' of island culture. But the audiences of 1932 -- less ethnographically enlightened perhaps but also less sentimental -- were not quite ready to abandon material pleasures. Vidor's film contains a scene in which McCrea sits on a silvery beach and extols the wonders of technology and the excitement of Manhattan night life, a moment difficult to imagine in a contemporary Hollywood film, and rather a refreshing one. (Kino Lorber, Blu-ray $29.95, DVD $24.95)
Bewitched
Perhaps encouraged by the example of Orson Welles, MGM gave the innovative radio producer Arch Oboler (''Lights Out'') a chance to direct the 1945 B-unit production ''Bewitched,'' based on one of his most popular radio plays. The results may not rival ''Citizen Kane,'' but given his minuscule budget Oboler creates an effectively close, nocturnal atmosphere and brings off some inventive effects, including some densely edited sound montages.
With its story of a sweet, small-town girl (Phyllis Thaxter) who harbors a murderous second personality, ''Bewitched'' belongs to an early stage in the postwar transformation of the horror film from supernatural to psychological menace, as the genre moved from Bram Stoker's Dracula to Alfred Hitchcock's Norman Bates. Thaxter's evil side emerges (with a husky voice of her own, provided without credit by Audrey Totter, MGM's resident bad girl) only when she is sexually aroused -- a novel idea at puritanical MGM.
Although a sympathetic psychologist (Edmund Gwenn) is on hand to supply a chaste explanation (''Once in a million births a body can have two divergent personalities living in the same brain''), Oboler has clearly read some Freud, who was much in fashion at the time. When Thaxter kills, she does so with a blatantly phallic pair of scissors, a detail that now has acquired Hitchcockian resonance thanks to a similarly staged killing in Hitchcock's ''Dial M for Murder'' (1954).
It's more than likely that Hitchcock saw ''Bewitched'' -- he was a voracious filmgoer, and Gwenn was one of his regular actors -- and it is intriguing to speculate on other possible connections: the way Oboler dollies in to Thaxter's open-mouthed astonishment after the killing suggests Janet Leigh's death in ''Psycho'' (and Oboler replaces her scream with a dissonant surge of strings); Gwenn's prosaic ''explanation'' of Thaxter's condition suggests the psychiatrist in ''Psycho'' and his profoundly beside-the-point account of Norman's pathology.
But even without a direct link to the Master, ''Bewitched'' remains a significant step in a long evolution, and not a bad film on its own. (Warner Archive Collection, www.warnerarchive.com, $17.95, not rated)
ALSO OUT THIS WEEK
NEW YEAR'S EVE Garry Marshall directed this all-star, multistory film set in New York on, yes, New Year's Eve. With Halle Berry, Jessica Biel, Jon Bon Jovi, Robert De Niro, Josh Duhamel, Katherine Heigl, Aston Kutcher and Seth Meyers. The movie ''is a depressing two-hour infomercial pitching Times Square as the only place in the universe you want to be when the ball drops at midnight on Dec. 31,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times in December. (Warner Home Video, Blu-ray, DVD combo $35.99, DVD $28.98, PG-13).
HAYWIRE The mixed-martial-arts fighter Gina Carano stars as a private security contractor for the American government who is betrayed by someone within her own organization and sets out for revenge. With Michael Fassbender, Ewan McGregor, Bill Paxton, Channing Tatum, Antonio Banderas and Michael Douglas; Steven Soderbergh directed. The movie is ''a cold and kinetic experiment in high-impact, low-concept genre filmmaking,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times in January. (Relativity, Blu-ray $39.99, DVD $29.95, R)
W.E. Madonna directed this two-track film that contrasts the life of a lonely New Yorker (Abbie Cornish) with the glamorous couple with whom she has become obsessed: Edward VII (James D'Arcy) and Wallace Simpson (Andrea Riseborough). ''The upshot is that instead of a film about a love that conquered a king and nearly undid a kingdom, Madonna has come up with a female friendship movie, which would be fine if she weren't busy trying to prove her art-film bona fides,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times in February.(Weinstein Company, Blu-ray/DVD combo $39.99, DVD $29.98, R)
GEORGE HARRISON: LIVING IN THE MATERIAL WORLD Martin Scorsese's documentary on the most mystically inclined of the Beatles features interviews with Ringo Starr, Eric Clapton, Paul McCartney, Yoko Ono and others. It is ''an absorbing and beautifully made film,'' Mike Hale wrote in The Times in October. (Hip-O-Records, Blu-ray $24.98, two-disc DVD $24.98, not rated)
THE INNKEEPERS Ti West (''The House of the Devil'') directs a '70s-retro horror film about a pair of desk clerks (Sara Paxton and Pat Healy) at a New England inn with a reputation for being haunted. With the help of a visiting psychic (Kelly McGillis) they decide to investigate. ''Jolting and impressive as Mr. West's skills are, there is something missing from 'The Innkeepers': an element of metaphysical awe or psychological implication that might make you temporarily believe in ghosts or even care about what they do,'' Mr. Scott wrote in The Times in February.(Dark Sky Films, Blu-ray $34.98, DVD $27.98, R)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joel McCrea is a yachtsman who falls in love with a Polynesian beauty, Dolores del Rio, in ''Bird of Paradise'' (1932), a departure for the social realist King Vidor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KINO LORBER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MARRIAGE (69%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); CHRISTMAS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

TITLE: Bewitched (Movie); Something to Live For (Movie); Bird of Paradise (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1025 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN PIERMONT, N.Y.; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Boons and Banes of the Picturesque

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
DRAPED as it is down the Hudson River face of the Tallman Mountains, Piermont evokes a Mediterranean hillside, or maybe Sausalito, Calif. Either way, it presents a sharp contrast to many of its neighbors in Rockland County.
Three miles south of the Tappan Zee Bridge, with a colorful main street of quaint shops and historic homes tucked along the shoreline, it is insulated from the noise of traffic crossing the span between Rockland to Westchester. But at the same time the George Washington Bridge is about 12 miles south, close enough for residents to commute to Manhattan.
Not surprisingly, the 0.7-square-mile village in Orangetown, with a three-mile-wide section of the river to its east and the steep hillside behind it, has become a refuge for artists, musicians, authors and others seeking a peaceful respite from the clamor of everyday life. 
''This is definitely not a place to come and build a McMansion,'' said Joan Dye Gussow, professor emerita at Columbia University, environmentalist and author of ''This Organic Life: Confessions of a Suburban Homesteader'' (Chelsea Green Publishing, 2002), among other books. Ms. Gussow, 83, moved to Piermont with her husband, Alan, a painter, in 1995. The house they bought with the intention of renovating it turned out to be unsalvageable, so they built another on its footprint for about $400,000: a three-bedroom two-bath Italian-style rose-colored stucco residence.
But it wasn't really for the original house that they moved to Piermont. ''I don't know exactly what it was,'' Ms. Gussow said, ''but when I walked down to the river with my husband, it was the open space, the nonsuburban aspect of the site that called to me.'' Now a widow, she conducts writing classes in her home and tends a large garden that sweeps down to the water. ''I get up every morning and pull up the shades and look out at the river,'' she said, ''and I just love that.''
Piermont has not always been idyllic. As recently as the 1980s, it was so reminiscent of a village laid bare by hard times that Woody Allen chose it for the backdrop of his 1985 movie ''The Purple Rose of Cairo,'' which takes place during the Great Depression. Formerly a factory town, Piermont was the home of the Continental Can Company in the 1950s and then the site of the Piermont Paper Company. When the mill closed in the 1970s, the village fell into decline. It wasn't until the 1990s that developers began building condominiums and town houses on the pier, enticing new residents like Fara Abramson, the owner of a gift shop in nearby New City.
After dining out one evening in Piermont with friends, Ms. Abramson, now 43 and the mother of a 9-year-old son, was so smitten that she returned the next morning to buy a three-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath town house with a deck and views of the riverfront, spending $300,000 before even putting her home and business in New City up for sale. ''I could never have taken a chance like that in today's economy,'' said Ms. Abramson, who has since opened another gift shop, Presence, in Piermont, ''but I'm glad I did back then.''
So magnetic is the village today, according to residents, that tourists and bicyclists often arrive in droves on weekends. The bicyclists often pay little heed to the designated bike lanes, said Robert Samuels, a former journalist and author who has lived here since 1982. ''They talk loudly and shout back and forth to one another, often waking me out of a sound sleep on a Sunday morning,'' said Mr. Samuels, whose book ''Blue Water, White Water'' (Up the Creek Publishing, 2011) details his struggle with Guillain-Barre syndrome, a muscle disorder.
But other than the bicyclists and high annual property taxes, most of Piermont's 2,500 residents consider their village as close to perfect as it gets, said Mr. Samuels, the president of the 500-member civic association.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
Ash Street winds down from Route 9W, its various house styles on display: stone homes built in the 1700s, Greek Revivals dating to the 1800s, Victorians, ranches, split-levels and contemporaries. Mr. Samuels and his companion, Karen Brown, a retired social worker, live in a barn-red wheelchair-accessible modular home on Sparkill Creek that he built for $175,000 when he moved to town 30 years ago.
As David Sanders, president and founder of Sanders Properties in Nyack, puts it, residential real estate in Piermont attracts ''a very creative, do-your-own-kind-of-thing buyer.''
A waterfront section known as Bogertown is home to renovated 19th-century fishermen's shacks dating to the period of Dutch immigration. Nearby on the pier, the newer condos and town houses built in the late 1900s have a distinctly modern feel, with an original 12-by-28-foot flywheel from the paper factory era prominently displayed among the more recent real estate. Because it was too heavy to remove, the flywheel remains mounted on a concrete base that was part of the original factory floor. The tableau recalls the pier's history, yet with its resemblance to a modern sculpture seems in keeping with the village's current ethos.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
Buyers represent ''a cross section, young couples and empty nesters, but not your first-time buyer,'' Mr. Sanders said. ''It's too pricey.'' Many in the current market, he added, are paying with cash.
The median price of a single-family home at the end of 2011 was $550,000, down 19 percent from $675,000 in 2007. The median for a condo dropped to $250,000 from $595,000 in 2007, just before the market tanked, he said.
Listings include: a two-bedroom two-bath penthouse condo in a gated complex next to the river, listed at $769,000 with taxes of $16,150 a year; a four-bedroom five-bath Victorian with river views and two fireplaces, listed at $1.499 million with taxes of $21,510; and a 10-bedroom 8-bath 1890s castle on 18 acres with a cottage, a barn and a pool, listed at $8.5 million, with taxes of $78,570.
From April 18, 2011, to the same date this year, 9 single-family homes sold in Piermont, spending an average of 146 days on the market; 23 condos sold during that time, taking an average of 111 days, Mr. Sanders said.
In all, there are 466 single-family homes, 77-two-families, 19 three-families, 357 condos and 100 rentals, said Brian J. Kenney, Orangetown's assessor and a consultant to the village.
THE SCHOOLS
The South Orangetown Central School District -- Palisades, Sparkill, Tappan, Piermont, Grandview, Upper Nyack and part of Blauvelt -- has 3,400 students in five schools: William O. Schaefer School in Tappan, for kindergarten and Grade 1; Tappan Zee Elementary in Piermont for Grades 2 and 3; Cottage Lane Elementary in Blauvelt, for Grades 4 and 5; South Orangetown Middle School in Blauvelt, for Grades 6 through 8; and Tappan Zee High School in Orangeburg for Grades 9 through 12. There is also a special-needs prekindergarten program at the Schaefer school. Among fourth-graders at Cottage Lane last year, 77 percent met standards in English, 85 percent in math, versus 56.7 and 66.6 percent statewide, said Brian Culot, the principal.
SAT averages were 529 in reading, 557 in math and 531 in writing, versus 514, 497 and 489 statewide.
WHAT TO DO
There is plenty to do along the waterfront and on the pier, said Chris Sanders, Piermont's part-time mayor. Village children spend afternoons and weekends biking on the pier, crabbing and fishing in the river, and kayaking and canoeing on the river or Sparkill Creek. Mayor Sanders, along with his son, Benjamin, 15, and his wife, Marlene, a ceramic artist, also often hike in Tallman Mountain State Park, ''where we feel like we're a million miles away from the city, even though we can see the skyline from the top of the mountain,'' he said. Mayor Sanders, a marketing executive who commutes to Manhattan, describes the family house -- a three-bedroom mid-1800s pink shingle-style dwelling that cost about $350,000 15 years ago -- as ''adorable.''
Among the restaurants, which draw diners from New Jersey and Westchester, are the Freelance Cafe and Wine Bar, the Turning Point (which offers live folk music), Xaviars at Piermont, Sidewalk Bistro and Slattery's Landing.
Piermont Avenue and the pier are well known to lovers of quirky clothing and tabletop items. Stores include Abigail Rose and Lily Too, owned by Bonnie Chapin, the wife of the singer/songwriter Tom Chapin; and Abercorn Place, which spotlights new designers.
THE COMMUTE
Coach USA Red & Tan buses stop in Piermont and elsewhere along Route 9W, taking about an hour to reach the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Midtown. A one-way trip costs $8.60; the bus driver sells tickets. A 20-trip booklet is available at the terminal for $142.80.
Tappan ZEExpress provides 25-minute bus service from the Palisades Center Park and Ride across the bridge to the Tarrytown Metro-North Railroad Station. A one-way ticket costs $3; discounted weekly and monthly tickets are available through Metro-North.
THE HISTORY
The Tappan Indians, the first farmers in the area, began trading produce, fish and other game with the Dutch explorers in the 17th century, and that section of the river evolved into a busy port.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SHALL WE? Piermont Avenue, the main street, has the kinds of quirky shops restaurants that draw visitors. Its riverfront setting at the foot of the Tallman range helps, too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); CREATIVE WRITING (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); PAPER & PACKAGING (60%); PAPER MFG (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (54%)

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL CAN CO INC (61%); CHELSEA GREEN PUBLISHING CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2679 CONVERTED PAPER & PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS, NEC (61%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1026 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: The Dispossessed

BYLINE: By FERNANDA EBERSTADT. 
Fernanda Eberstadt's most recent novel is ''Rat.''

 BODY:
THE RIGHT-HAND SHORE
By Christopher Tilghman
358 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $27.
When Thomas Bayly was a little boy, snuggled in his housekeeper's lap, he asked her why she was called Hattie's Mary. She told him it was her slave name and she'd chosen to keep it ''as a way of always having her mother with her.'' ''Then he asked her what happened to her mother, and she answered that there are some questions you should never ask. You should never ask a prisoner what he did to get put in jail, never ask a widow whether she gets lonely in bed, and never ask a freed slave what happened to her family. Thomas was perhaps 4 when she gave him these answers, and he retained them until he could make sense of them, one by one.'' 
Christopher Tilghman's third novel and fifth work of fiction, ''The Right-Hand Shore,'' shows us the consequences of Thomas's conversation with Hattie's Mary, and of his struggle to redeem himself and his future bride from both the sins of his forefathers and the sufferings of hers. Thomas is the heir to Mason's Retreat, a vast property on the Eastern Shore of Maryland that has been in his family since 1657. In the late 19th century, when Thomas comes of age, it includes not only some thousand acres of orchards, woods and arable land, but also Tuckertown, a settlement of black families working as orchardists, blacksmiths, harness makers and servants on the Retreat and neighboring estates.
Mason's Retreat has been making its appearance in various forms in Tilghman's fiction for the last 20-odd years. In his first book, the story collection ''In a Father's Place,'' we see it as the ''Big House,'' feared by the son of a white farmworker in the 1960s, and later as the ancestral home -- a place of ''mildewed stillness that smelled of English linen and straw mats'' -- to which an aspiring novelist brings his villainous new girlfriend for a summer weekend. From story to story, novel to novel, Tilghman's readers have become familiar with this Chesapeake plantation, with its summer kitchen and its smokehouse, its box bushes and its oyster-shell paths and stands of loblolly pines, its big views of tidal waters. We have grown accustomed to the scowling 17th-century portrait of ''Cousin Oswald'' that hangs on the wall of the yellow stucco manor house and have heard the same family names of the neighboring gentry, farm laborers and watermen who have inhabited this peninsula for generations.
This is not to suggest that familiarity breeds comfort. Tilghman has no intention of creating an upper-crust, mid-/Atlantic version of Lake Wobegon. There's nothing cozy or even colorful about his depiction of the Eastern Shore, a region where his own ancestors once lived. In fact, he's quite pitiless about the toll of moral ambiguity exacted on the people who live in a border country that's neither land nor sea, neither North nor South, about ''the despair and loneliness one could feel on this hollow landscape, the flat, unrelieved and empty world.''
In much of Tilghman's early fiction, history -- local history, family history -- is something that's ducked gracefully, synopsized anecdotally. It's a burden children flee and then are summoned home to. His subject has always been the dissolution of families, how parents and children drift apart and disappoint one another. In certain of his novels, however, Tilghman has attacked head-on the historical complexities that might have made a Chesapeake plantation at some times an Eden and at others a cursed, murderous place.
In his 1996 novel, ''Mason's Retreat,'' set just before World War II, Tilghman portrays the family tragedy awaiting Edward Mason, an industrialist who brings his wife and two sons back to the Eastern Shore to reclaim the estate that has been willed to him by a spinster cousin, Miss Mary Bayly. Now Tilghman has written what he describes as a ''prequel'': the story of how the fearsome Miss Mary ended up running, single-handed, this place that seems to eat its men alive.
Constructed, ''Wuthering Heights'' style, as a succession of narratives told to Edward Mason by Miss Mary and her employees on his daylong tour of the Retreat, ''The Right-Hand Shore'' represents an outing of some of America's most troubled ghosts. We learn how Miss Mary's grandfather, a hard, prescient man who, realizing in the 1850s that ''the whole thing was over anyway,'' sold all his field slaves for ''30 cents on the dollar'' to a ''weasel faced'' Virginia trader. We learn how her mother, Miss Ophelia, then 15, watching this traduced multitude of men, women and children make its way down the dock, felt relieved that ''the mean slaves, the scary ones, were getting on the boat, and the nice people, those who always greeted her and made a fuss about her red hair, they were staying.'' And though this shameful memory haunts Miss Ophelia, leading her to feel that ''the whole American adventure'' is founded on expropriation and servitude, ''that's the way it was in Maryland in those days. In the North, there was one principle, one war, one story; in the South, one cause, one defense, one history; but in the borders, in the middle ground, there were as many principles and wars and histories as there were human beings to hold them, to survive them, to preserve them.''
Miss Ophelia's two brothers die fighting for the Confederacy, but she will marry, according to her father's wishes, a Unionist, an idealistic man who believes he can rid the Retreat of slavery's curse -- by converting the estate to a massive peach orchard, which he works side by side with his pickers according to the most advanced scientific principles, and by educating his black orchardist's prodigiously gifted son, Randall Terrell, together with his own son, Thomas.
As sometimes happens, in literature as in life, it's the reformers who do the most harm, the well intentioned who are punished. Randall and Thomas grow up as close as twin brothers, with one will, one unspoken language binding them. But as Zoe Gale, the Retreat's half-blind clairvoyant cook, prophesies, ''no good comes when Jacob plays with Esau, or when Cain plays with Abel.'' The destruction that is visited upon the Terrell family and the Baylys -- the consequence of those slaves being sold south some 40 years earlier -- will spare no one.
Tilghman unfolds his harsh lesson with precision, delicacy and startling humor. When he's writing about the inner life of Tuckertown, you forget he's white. When he writes about the orchardist's wife's worries about her daughters, you forget he's a man. He's equally persuasive describing the procedures of modern dairy farming and the economic fallout from the Civil War. ''The Right-Hand Shore'' is the dark, magisterial creation of a writer with an uncanny feel for the intersections of place and character in American history. His readers will want to hear more stories from this Eastern Shore estate. Let's just hope he doesn't keep us waiting for another 16 years.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CELINE LOUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); SLAVERY (77%); FARM LABOR (72%); LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (72%); AGRICULTURE (69%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

TITLE: The Right-Hand Shore (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1027 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 5657 words

HEADLINE: Mommy Had To Go Away for A While

BYLINE: By ADA CALHOUN

 BODY:
On a rainy day just after Thanksgiving, Amanda Kimbrough played with her 2-year-old daughter in her raw-wood-paneled living room, petting her terriers and half-watching TV. Kimbrough, who is 32, lives a few miles outside Russellville, a town of fewer than 10,000 in rural northwestern Alabama, near the border of Franklin and Colbert Counties. Textiles were the economic engine of the area until the 1990s, when the industry went into decline and mills shut down. Now one of the region's leading employers is Pilgrim's, a chicken supplier. The median household income is $31,213, and more than a third of children live below the poverty line.
As family members came in and out of the room and one daytime show slid into another -- ''The People's Court,'' ''Intervention,'' ''Jerry Springer,'' ''The Ellen DeGeneres Show'' -- Kimbrough talked about her arrest following the death of her third child, Timmy Jr. Born premature at 25 weeks on April 29, 2008, Timmy Jr. weighed 2 pounds 1 ounce, and lived only 19 minutes. When Kimbrough tested positive for methamphetamine, her two daughters were swiftly removed from her custody, and for 90 days, she was allowed only supervised visits. Social services mandated parenting classes and drug treatment. 
That would have been a typical response in most places, but Alabama is different. Six months after Timmy Jr.'s death, the district attorney in Colbert County charged Kimbrough with chemical endangerment of a child, a Class A felony (because the infant died) that carries a mandatory sentence of 10 years to life. She turned herself in, and bail was set at $250,000. At the trial, the state completed its case in two days. On the advice of her lawyer, Kimbrough then pleaded guilty and received the minimum sentence of 10 years.
According to Kyle Brown, the chief assistant district attorney in the case, Kimbrough might have received far more time if a jury had found her guilty. ''She caused the death of another person,'' Angela Hulsey, an assistant district attorney on the case, said, ''a person that will never have the chance to go to school, go to the prom, get married, have children of their own. You're dealing with the most innocent of victims.''
When I met Kimbrough last fall, she was free on an appeal bond. (Her plea bargain allows her lawyers to appeal her conviction on constitutional grounds without contesting the specifics of her case.) Kimbrough said she never had a big problem with meth, but admitted that she started using the drug in her mid-20s, after her first marriage collapsed. When she was pregnant with Timmy Jr., she did meth only once, she told me.
''One time,'' she said. ''I don't even know why I done it. I guess the Devil knocked on my shoulder that day.'' Otherwise, Kimbrough insisted, she abstained from drugs during her pregnancy, even refusing painkillers for an infected tooth for fear they would hurt the baby. Timmy Jr.'s birth had many potentially complicating factors, including prematurity and a prolapsed cord. Kimbrough says she was eager to have the child -- she had always wanted a boy. She and her husband, Timmy Sr., were told at an early-April prenatal visit that Timmy Jr. would likely have Down syndrome, and while abortion was an option, the Kimbroughs, who oppose abortion on moral grounds, did not consider it. ''We didn't care if he was special needs,'' Timmy Sr. said. ''We would have loved him.''
Kimbrough told me that she was devastated by the loss of her baby and scared of being locked up. She described a recent visit to her brother in prison, where he is serving time for burglary and other charges, and how upset she was by the place.
''I feel for people on drugs,'' she continued. ''You got to stay away from people that's on them. I learned that in rehab, and I been clean ever since. I feel like I iced the cake with this one. To me, losing a child. . . . '' She stared off into space.
Kimbrough's cheerful 10-year-old, Brooke, arrived home from school, shaking the rain off her coat and chatting about a new necklace. In quick succession, Kimbrough checked Brooke's backpack for new library books, fixed peanut-butter crackers and braided a doll's hair. ''She has to take care of everybody,'' her adult stepdaughter Amy told me. ''She's a mother hen.''
You might not expect a rural Alabama mother with a felony conviction to have in her corner a national army of feminists, civil libertarians and gynecologists, but Kimbrough's case has attracted the interest of groups like Planned Parenthood, the A.C.L.U. and the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, who all maintain that her conviction sets a dangerous precedent. Emma Ketteringham, the director of legal advocacy at the National Advocates for Pregnant Women, a New York-based reproductive-justice group, has been following Kimbrough's case closely. She has drafted ''friend of the court'' briefs for Kimbrough signed by groups like the National Organization for Women-Alabama and the American Medical Association. She argues that applying Alabama's chemical-endangerment law to pregnant women ''violates constitutional guarantees of liberty, privacy, equality, due process and freedom from cruel and unusual punishment.'' In effect, she says, under Alabama's chemical-endangerment law, pregnant women have become ''a special class of people that should be treated differently from every other citizen.'' And, she says, the law violates pregnant women's constitutional rights to equal protection under the law. Ketteringham also recruited two prominent Alabama lawyers, Jake Watson and Brian M. White, to take Kimbrough's case pro bono. ''I love babies, too, but I don't like locking up their mamas,'' Watson told me.
There have been approximately 60 chemical-endangerment prosecutions of new mothers in Alabama since 2006, the year the statute was enacted. Originally created to protect children from potentially explosive meth labs, Alabama's chemical-endangerment law prohibits a ''responsible person'' from ''exposing a child to an environment in which he or she . . . knowingly, recklessly or intentionally causes or permits a child to be exposed to, to ingest or inhale, or to have contact with a controlled substance, chemical substance or drug paraphernalia.''
Criminal convictions of women for their newborns' positive drug tests are rare in other states, lawyers familiar with these cases say. In most places, maternal drug use is considered a matter for child protective services, not for law enforcement. Advocates for Kimbrough insist that, in any case, Alabama's chemical-endangerment law was never meant to apply to pregnant women's drug use. ''The words 'womb,' 'uterus,' 'pregnant women' don't appear in the law,'' Ketteringham says. ''It was a law meant to protect children from meth labs.'' One state legislator has filed an amicus brief, claiming the law was not intended to be used this way, and the Legislature has repeatedly rejected amendments to expand the law's definition of ''child'' to explicitly mean ''fetus.'' But shortly after the law passed, Alabama prosecutors began extending the term ''environment'' to also mean the ''womb,'' and ''child'' to also mean ''fetus.'' In 2006, Tiffany Hitson was charged with chemical endangerment the day after she gave birth to a baby girl who tested positive for cocaine and marijuana but was otherwise healthy. When that prosecution was successful (Hitson was incarcerated for a year), other counties followed suit, making Alabama the national capital for prosecuting women on behalf of their newborn children.
Last summer, the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals upheld this expanded interpretation of the chemical-endangerment law, ruling that the dictionary definition of ''child'' includes ''unborn child,'' an interpretation that will be challenged when the state's Supreme Court considers Kimbrough's case in the coming months. But the implications of that ruling go far beyond Alabama. Critics like Ketteringham argue that Alabama's chemical-endangerment law offers a back door into what has become known as the ''fetal personhood'' argument.
Personhood USA, an organization based in Colorado, was founded in 2008 by Keith Mason after he became frustrated by the mainstream anti-abortion movement's incremental approach of restricting the availability of legal abortion. ''From my perspective, I saw a movement that was largely dying or dead and had a lack of enthusiasm from younger people and from people who had been in the fight for so many years,'' he told me. ''Something had to change. Personhood is that rallying point, because it's the crux of the issue.'' His movement seeks to establish the fetus's right to live as equal to that of the mother's.
Personhood advocates regard fetal rights as a civil rights issue, and they often compare themselves to abolitionists. ''I think it would be unequal protection to give the woman a pass when anyone else who injects drugs into a child would be prosecuted,'' Ben DuPre, director of Personhood Alabama, said. ''What it boils down to is, aren't these little children persons?''
The goal of Personhood USA is to establish that a fully rights-endowed person is created when sperm meets egg. To that end, it has introduced initiatives and measures in legislatures in 22 states. Though none of these measures have become law, some, like Proposition 26 in Mississippi, have made it to a ballot referendum, and other measures have passed legislative chambers in North Dakota, Montana and Oklahoma. The problem with those measures, from a legal perspective, says Lynn Paltrow, executive director of the National Advocates for Pregnant Women, is that ''there is no way to treat fertilized eggs, embryos and fetuses as separate constitutional persons without subtracting pregnant women from the community of constitutional persons.''
The sometimes vague language of the initiatives and measures masks what would be the ''sweeping effects on access to health care,'' says Alexa Kolbi-Molinas, a staff lawyer for the A.C.L.U.'s Reproductive Freedom Project. One district-court judge agreed with the A.C.L.U., which brought a suit to block a personhood initiative from the ballot in Nevada. Judge James E. Wilson ordered the sponsor of the state's personhood initiative to add clarifying language. As he wrote in his opinion in December: ''The initiative would protect a prenatal person regardless of whether or not the prenatal person would live, grow, or develop in the womb or survive birth; prevent all abortions even in the case of rape, incest or serious threats to the woman's health or life, or when a woman is suffering from a miscarriage, or as an emergency treatment for an ectopic pregnancy. . . .'' The initiative was withdrawn, but signatures are being gathered on a rewritten petition.
In Mississippi, Proposition 26 would have outlawed abortion, embryonic-stem-cell research, cancer treatments that might hurt a fetus and some popular methods of birth control. The measure was defeated, Paltrow said, ''because its implication was obvious: once the woman becomes pregnant, she has a second-class status in which she loses virtually every constitutional right, including a right to medical privacy.''
''At least Mississippi put it up to a vote,'' Ketteringham says. In Alabama, ''you essentially have a personhood measure in disguise.''
Critics of Alabama's chemical-endangerment law argue that drug use by pregnant women is best treated as a health issue, not a criminal one. Addiction, they say, can be treated, but drug users have to be willing to seek help, which they might be less likely to do if they fear arrest. ''To simplify a complex medical and psychosocial issue into a criminal issue is really just like using a hammer to play the piano,'' says Dr. Deborah Frank, a pediatrician and director of Boston Medical Center's Grow Clinic for Children. ''The whole definition of addiction is compulsive behavior in spite of adverse consequences -- like the person who keeps eating doughnuts even though their doctor tells them they're morbidly obese and going to die of a heart attack.'' Deterrents, experts like Frank say, don't work well when it comes to addicts and may even be counterproductive.
Heather Capps, a 25-year-old mother of three, was arrested in Marshall County, Ala., on Nov. 11, 2011, two days after giving birth via Caesarean section to a healthy boy who tested positive for Oxycodone. Capps says that she became addicted to the drug after it was prescribed for her scoliosis pain. When Capps learned she was pregnant, she knew she would be prosecuted if she gave birth to a baby who tested positive for drugs, and she also knew that the effects of withdrawal from quitting abruptly during pregnancy could be dangerous to her unborn child.
She went online, and after finding the Web site of National Advocates for Pregnant Women, called Ketteringham to ask for legal advice. Ketteringham confirmed that if Capps gave birth in Marshall County, she would most likely be prosecuted and recommended that she hire a lawyer. Capps had heard that prosecutors in nearby Jefferson County weren't bringing chemical-endangerment charges against drug-using pregnant women, but because she had two young sons in school she decided to stay where she was and to continue taking the lowest possible dose of Oxycodone she felt she could manage. She also posted some regrettable things during private Facebook conversations: ''I figured since I was just informed that im a crackhead (still wonderin how im the last to find out) and pregnant now ill just shoot thru my belly button strait into the uterus to make sure the baby gets high to.'' That Facebook post, shown on the local news after her arrest, made her a pariah. Her family insists the post was a cry for help. ''When she was told there was no help for her, and that she might lose the baby, she was petrified,'' her husband, Matthew Devin, says. ''She couldn't live with herself if she hurt one of our kids.''
Capps was arrested on the hospital grounds. She remained in jail for three months because her family could not afford to post her $500,000 bail. She was then sent to rehab and placed in a halfway house, where she continues to receive treatment. If she completes the program to the judge's satisfaction, her sentence will be dismissed. She is allowed to see her three children once a week on Sundays.
The recommended treatment for opiate addiction during pregnancy is a controlled dosage of methadone, says Dr. Robert Newman, of the International Center for Advancement of Addiction Treatment at Beth Israel, who says a prognosis for both mother and baby is good with long-term outpatient treatment. (Capps told me that the drug treatment she was offered while pregnant was at an inpatient facility in Birmingham.) Prosecutors I spoke with said they would not charge a woman taking prescribed methadone. But the law does not prohibit such a charge, and critics argue that the threat of prosecution discourages women from seeking addiction treatment. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists issued a statement in 2011 cautioning that women would even avoid prenatal care when they believed doctors were gathering evidence for law enforcement. Measures like Alabama's chemical-endangerment law, they said, are ''contrary to the welfare of the mother and fetus.'' State Senator Clay Scofield of Alabama, who is seeking to amend the state's chemical-endangerment law to include the fetus, dismisses this concern. ''The majority of women who are abusing meth already do not seek prenatal care,'' he told me.
There is anecdotal evidence to suggest that pregnant women in Alabama, aware that they may be arrested and their medical records subpoenaed if they or their babies test positive for drugs, may be changing their behavior -- although not necessarily as some prosecutors hoped. Carmen Howell, a defense lawyer in Enterprise, says she knows of one woman who drove to Georgia when she went into labor and another who gave birth to a three-pound baby in a bathtub at home. She is concerned that women who use drugs may also be having abortions to avoid prosecution. This law, she says, ''is a deterrent to choosing life.''
Last November, I accompanied Kimbrough and Timmy Sr. to Timmy Jr.'s grave in a well-tended cemetery near Kimbrough's parents' house. Kimbrough's grandfather was buried nearby; a gravestone portrait shows him driving a John Deere tractor. It was raining, and Kimbrough, shivering in a black turtleneck and jeans, rearranged metal butterflies, ceramic angels and a plastic cross until Timmy Sr. called out from their truck, ''Are you trying to get a cold?''
The funeral had been small. ''We only done close family,'' Kimbrough had told me earlier. ''I had a closed casket for my older kids cause he was so purple. I think about it every day. To me, that's punishment enough.''
''Don't upset yourself, now,'' Timmy Sr. said. He pushed back his slicked-back hair, revealing an upper-arm tattoo of a cross above which is written ''Amanda.''
''People look to her real bad,'' he said. ''I don't know why they want to make out like she done it on purpose or something. Us losing it and all was enough for me and her both. Them wanting to send her to prison for it, that just ain't right.'' Timmy Sr., who is 22 years older than his wife, and whom she affectionately calls ''Bro,'' told me that he once had trouble with meth, too. But, he said, he ''did a 180'' when he met Kimbrough. ''I been to rehab,'' he said. ''It's a disease.''
Back at home, Kimbrough went into her bedroom and came out with a white box containing knitted socks and an imprint of Timmy Jr.'s foot on paper. Neatly folded in a bag labeled with his birth date was Timmy Jr.'s hospital blanket decorated with a teddy-bear angel. ''There was one nurse who sat and talked to me,'' Kimbrough said. ''She was the only one who was really good to me. When they brought the baby in there, they acted like I didn't hold him long enough. Who wants to hold a dead baby, you know?'' she continued, apologetically. ''I held him for about 10 minutes.''
When I drove up to the address that Hope Ankrom gave me, I assumed I must have entered it incorrectly into the car's GPS. It was a palatial house in an upscale community with an 18-hole golf course. Ankrom was one of the first women to be prosecuted under Alabama's chemical-endangerment law. Most women against whom chemical-endangerment charges are brought are poor, defense lawyers say. But Ankrom's husband is an aircraft mechanic who makes six figures working as a contractor in Afghanistan. This house, which belongs to Ankrom's parents, a retired Army colonel and a nurse, is about a five-hour drive south of Kimbrough's home, and probably worth 10 times as much.
At 29, Ankrom seems like a mischievous teenager. She wore dangly silver earrings, a brown T-shirt, jeans and boots. Her three children (Bryson, now 3; Aubree, 4; and Paige, 5) raced around the living room in a blur of curly dark hair and sippy cups. She yelled at Bryson to come back from the open front door and helped Paige change from flip-flops to sneakers, then shooed all three children out the door to accompany their grandfather to McDonald's.
''Listen: silence,'' she said with a smile. Bryson, she told me, was born weighing almost six pounds. He was healthy but tested positive for marijuana and cocaine. Ankrom admits smoking pot but denies cocaine use. She said that she quit smoking pot for her first two pregnancies, but that during the third, her morning sickness was relentless. Marijuana kept her functional, she said, and so she continued in spite of her gynecologist's warning that she faced prosecution if she did not stop. She planned to quit a few weeks before her due date, assuming that she would then test negative. But Bryson came six weeks early.
When Bryson's drug-test results came back, the hospital called the Department of Human Resources, Alabama's child-protection service, which placed her children in the custody of her parents. ''The first night without my children, I thought I was just going to die,'' Ankrom said. She moved in with her parents so she could be around her children, but she was not allowed to be alone with them.
Two weeks later, the police came to the door with a warrant.
''Since I was breast-feeding, they let me pump a few times before they took me to jail,'' Ankrom said. They handcuffed her, walked her to the car in front of her parents' neighbors and then took her to a holding cell, where she spent a few hours before her parents posted bail. ''Boy, did I leak while I was in there!'' she said with a laugh. ''I had toilet paper crammed in my bra. There is nothing more painful than needing to express and not being able to.''
For several months Ankrom received regular, unannounced spot checks to make sure she wasn't alone with any of her children. A friend moved in to supervise her when her parents weren't home. Ankrom pleaded guilty to chemical endangerment and was given a suspended sentence with one year's probation. She completed mandatory drug treatment and continues to attend Narcotics Anonymous meetings for what she describes as a marijuana addiction. ''I really screwed up,'' she said. ''I can't blame anybody but myself.''
Ankrom now stays home with the children full time. Even if they don't need the money, she said, she wishes she could work. But the guilty plea has made that more difficult. ''What's killing me is I had a bright future,'' said Ankrom, who was studying to be a physical-therapy assistant. ''When you want to work with children or the elderly, they see that abuse charge and they're like: 'Whoa, no, thank you, ma'am. You're not going to work here.' ''
Ankrom said she had little expectation that her circumstances would change, though Alabama's Supreme Court will hear her case along with Kimbrough's. ''I'm not holding my breath on the Supreme Court overturning it,'' she said. ''I am guilty. I did smoke pot. I made bad decisions.'' She shrugged. ''It is how it is.''
Ankrom's lawyer, Carmen Howell, who represented her before the Court of Criminal Appeals (which upheld Ankrom's and Kimbrough's convictions this past summer), is pressing on with the appeal pro bono because, she said, the implications of the law are ''scary.'' She questioned what the arrest was really about if Ankrom could be prosecuted for drug use even though her child was unharmed.
''I think what you're looking at here is a failure to understand that addiction is a disease of the brain,'' says Dr. Barry Lester, the director of the Center for the Study of Children at Risk at Brown University. ''You are looking at people who think that these are horrible women who are rationally, willfully hurting their kids, but it's more complicated than that. Science has shown that addiction is a disease like any other mental illness, and absolutely treatable.''
Prosecutors often compare doing drugs while pregnant to driving while drunk. A crime has still been committed, they say, even when there is no harm done. Mitch Floyd, a passionate 42-year-old from Albertville -- part of an area known as Meth Mountain -- has prosecuted chemical-endangerment cases against new mothers more aggressively than anyone else. He is a patient, friendly man with light eyes who becomes deadly serious when he talks about babies.
Addiction is ''a very powerful force,'' he told me. ''However, there's a force that's more powerful than that to me, and that is a child is helpless, and God has put one person on this planet to be the last-line defense, to be the fiercest protector of that child, and that is its mother. My wife would literally claw someone's eyes out -- fight you to the death for our children. I mean, that's just what mothers are supposed to do. When that child's ultimate protector is the one causing the harm, what do you do?''
Over breakfast at a hotel restaurant in Florence, Ala., he shared photos of babies involved in some of his cases. Many looked healthy, although he said they were tiny and had all been exposed to drugs. One, born in February 2007, was shown in a neonatal-intensive-care unit with a man's wedding ring hanging around her wrist like a bangle. Another, born in August 2008, was dead and purple, his hands crossed over his chest.
''I meant to take that one out,'' he said.
Floyd says he is committed to drug-abuse prevention because, through his own work as an assistant district attorney and that of his wife, who works for the Department of Human Resources, he has seen firsthand the devastation of drugs on families. He visits local high schools and community groups to encourage teenagers to stay off meth, and insists the primary goal of these chemical-endangerment prosecutions is to keep more babies from being exposed to drugs. The mothers who are convicted, he says, are put in rehab and helped in the long run. ''It's a shame that babies need to be protected from their own mothers, but sometimes they do, and that's our job,'' Floyd said. ''It upsets me and offends me at the same time.
''People can argue with it,'' he added, referring to his chemical-endangerment prosecutions, ''but I think we've been very successful. We want folks to not reoffend, to get clean, to get reunited. I think that's the best-case scenario.''
No one would suggest that pregnant women should use drugs. But there are scientists who say that methamphetamines do not have a long-term impact on a developing fetus. Dr. Carl L. Hart, an associate professor of psychiatry and psychology at Columbia University and a research scientist at the New York State Psychiatric Institute, says that heavy alcohol use is potentially far more serious than a mother's use of opiates, cocaine or meth, because while these harder drugs may result in preterm labor or withdrawal symptoms that need to be managed, few babies experience long-term effects. Babies with fetal-alcohol syndrome, by contrast, are likely to have lifelong physical, mental and emotional issues, including significantly delayed brain development.
Furthermore, attributing a baby's medical condition to the presence of a single drug can be difficult, because many women who use illegal drugs have other risk factors at play during their pregnancies. ''Poor nutrition, smoking, drinking, homelessness, poverty. . . . How do you control for all that?'' Dr. Stephen Kandall, a neonatologist and the author of ''Substance and Shadow: Women and Addiction in the United States,'' told me.
Floyd's message, however, is clear and uncomplicated: drug use during pregnancy is dangerous and criminal. In January, he announced he would run for Marshall County district judge and campaigned in the Republican primary in part on his chemical-endangerment prosecutions. One ad featured a local obstetrician praising Floyd's work on behalf of the county's children, ''born and unborn.'' Floyd, the doctor says, ''makes sure these women are jailed and the babies are placed in a safe home.'' Another ad showed a woman named Whitney Holsonback holding her baby and smiling. ''Mitch Floyd made sure I went to jail,'' it read, ''but allowed me to go to drug treatment.'' With his help, she says in the ad, she was able to turn her life around. Now, she's off drugs, in nursing school and able to be a good mother to her son. ''Mitch was tough on me,'' she says, ''but he also cared about me; he encouraged me.''
On March 13, Floyd won in a landslide.
Laws concerning a pregnant woman's treatment of her fetus are not without precedent. Since abortion was legalized in 1973, hundreds of women across the country have been arrested for harming their fetuses, with charges ranging from child endangerment to first-degree murder.
Many of these prosecutions originate in laws initially designed to build in extra penalties when pregnant women are victims of a crime. Fetal-homicide laws, for example, which are on the books in 39 states, have often been passed in response to a brutal killing. Alabama's fetal-homicide law is known as the Brody Bill, named after the fetus who died in the 2005 murder of his mother, Brandy Parker. But treating women and their fetuses as separate persons under the law can have unexpected consequences. A woman in Indiana, Bei Bei Shuai, is now in prison for a suicide attempt that resulted in the death of her fetus. Three years ago in Mississippi, Rennie Gibbs had a stillbirth shortly after turning 16. When her baby tested positive for cocaine, she was charged with a ''depraved heart murder,'' the legal term for a killing with ''a callous disregard for human life,'' which in Mississippi carries a life sentence without possibility of parole until the age of 65. The Mississippi State Supreme Court, after initially agreeing to weigh in on the case, abruptly reconsidered, saying Gibbs should stand trial before it would rule on whether the law applies to pregnant women. Alabama's fetal-homicide law exempts pregnant women.
Measures that specifically define fetuses as persons have failed in every state in which they have been introduced (Colorado voters rejected fetal-personhood initiatives twice), but Mason, the founder of Personhood USA, told me that he isn't deterred. The goal, he said, is to raise awareness, much as gay marriage advocates, with whom he disagrees, have done with their campaigns. ''The more we raise the issue, the more we change the culture,'' he said. Troy Newman, president of the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue, agrees, in part, saying: ''Is it a winning strategy? Obviously not. They've spent millions of dollars in at least two different states running initiatives, and they've all failed miserably.'' On the other hand, laws like chemical endangerment, he says, could ultimately get the anti-abortion movement where it wants to go. ''Look,'' he says, ''we win every time we establish the precedent that the unborn child in the womb is a unique human individual.''
Mathew D. Staver, the founder and chairman of Liberty Counsel, who helped get fetal personhood on the ballot in Mississippi, recently filed an amicus brief with the State Supreme Court supporting the state's case against Ankrom. Staver told me by phone that ''it's clear that history has sided with the idea that life begins in the womb. The only aberration is Roe v. Wade. Abortion laws are an island unto themselves, and that island is gradually shrinking.''
But the expansion of fetal-homicide and chemical-endangerment laws have some people on the other side of the debate reaching for their copies of ''The Handmaid's Tale,'' Margaret Atwood's dystopian novel in which women are enslaved as childbearers.
''We're heading toward this Margaret Atwood-like society,'' Ketteringham says. ''The idea that the state needs to threaten and punish women so that they do the right thing during pregnancy is appalling. Everyone talks about the personhood of the fetus, but what's really at stake is the personhood of women. It starts with the use of an illegal drug, but what happens as a consequence of that precedent is that everything a woman does while she's pregnant becomes subject to state regulation.
''It starts with cocaine, and then it's cigarettes and alcohol. How much alcohol? And when? It's only a matter of time until it comes to refusing a bed-rest order because you need to work and take care of your other children and then you have a miscarriage. What if you stay at a job where you're exposed to toxic chemicals, as at a dry cleaner? What if you keep taking your S.S.R.I.'s during pregnancy? If a woman is told that sex during her pregnancy could be a risk to the fetus, and the woman has sex anyway and miscarries, are you going to prosecute the woman -- and the man too?''
''[The fetus] is another human being, just like we are,'' Scofield, the state senator, says. ''I look at the tens of millions of good mothers who make the right decisions. My mother, for instance, smoked forever. The day she found out she was pregnant with me, she put down her cigarettes for the last time. If we turn our back on this, we say to all these good mothers who have made good decisions that it's meaningless to society to be a good mother or a good father.''
Despite the mother-hen domesticity I witnessed, Amanda Kimbrough has not proved to be a model test-case defendant. Three months after I met her in Russellville, she was back in jail. Her appeal bond was revoked when she was charged with selling Oxycodone to a confidential informant. Timmy Sr. called the arrest a ''setup.'' David Henry Neal, the lawyer representing her on the new charge, said he would enter a not-guilty plea if there was an indictment. ''We just hope that the system will not try to get its pound of flesh over the death of the infant through the new drug charge,'' says Brian White, one of her lawyers in the chemical-endangerment case.
But an investigator in the Franklin County sheriff's office, who asked not to be named because he was not permitted to speak to the press, told me that his office had been monitoring Kimbrough for a long time: ''The important thing is the safety of the kids. She's not an innocent person if she's already in trouble and done that to her baby and she's still out selling dope.''
Her lawyers were clearly disappointed by the new arrest, but given their experience working with defendants, not entirely surprised. ''No case is ever easy,'' Ketteringham told me. ''People are complicated.'' Kimbrough's drug history, her lawyers acknowledge, may make it difficult to sympathize with her. But, they say, moral outrage need not be accompanied by legal punishment. ''Maybe human beings have not evolved enough to hold the complex idea that many things can be true at the same time,'' Paltrow of the National Advocates for Pregnant Women says. ''We can feel a certain way. We can value the unborn as a matter of religion, ethics or experience, but we can't do that as a matter of law and still value pregnant women.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timmy Kimbrough at home with his daughter Josie, 2, and his stepdaughters, Nicole, 13, and Brooke Borden, 10, left. His wife, shown in the framed photograph, is in jail. (MM30-MM31)
Birth Effects: Heather Capps, 25, and her 5-month-old son, Malice, at a halfway house in Albertville, Ala. She was arrested after her son tested positive for Oxycodone. (MM33)
 Hard Time: Chemical endangerment of a child, in the case of death, is a Class A felony in Alabama, carrying a mandatory sentence of 10 years to life. (PHOTOGRAPHS By LYNSEY ADDARIO) (MM34-MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SENTENCING (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); METHAMPHETAMINE (87%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); FAMILY (76%); PARENTING (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); PARENTING SUPPORT (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); CHILD ABUSE (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); JURY TRIALS (73%); VERDICTS (73%); BAIL (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); TEXTILES (71%); CHILD POVERTY (69%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); FELONIES (68%); ARRESTS (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); APPEALS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1028 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; MAKERS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Who Made That? (Mason Jar)

BYLINE: By HILARY GREENBAUM and DANA RUBINSTEIN

 BODY:
Before a New Jersey-born son of a Scottish farmer named John Landis Mason patented his jar in 1858, home-food preservation was a tricky affair. Modern heat-based canning, pioneered by a Frenchman in 1806, was too cumbersome for most home cooks, many of whom relied on cork-and-wax contraptions to seal food, often imperfectly, into vessels whose opaque walls rendered the contents invisible.
The Mason jar was different. With its threaded neck and screw-on lid, ''the canner could form a seal as hot liquids cooled,'' writes Mary Ellen Snodgrass in The Encyclopedia of Kitchen History. Mason jars, made of a manganese-bleached glass, were also transparent. ''Being able to see what you have on hand and what's going on inside the bottle, that's what's really important,'' says Megan Elias, the author of ''Stir It Up: Home Economics in American Culture.'' 
Mason never capitalized on his success. He assigned his patent rights to another company and died a charity case -- the invention that bore his name helped spark a home-canning revolution that lasted until the 1950s.
By the early 20th century, industrial advances made jar manufacturing faster and more economical. Competitors like the Ball brothers were, according to Quentin Skrabec's biography of H. J. Heinz, making mass-produced Mason jars widely available. Mason jars made it possible to preserve green beans and apples and peaches that could be eaten in January. Settlers in the Pacific Northwest filled the jars with wild huckleberries. ''By autumn, every housewife had hundreds of quart and half-gallon jars stored in the basement or root cellar,'' writes Paul Conkin in ''A Revolution Down on the Farm.''
World War II caused another spike in Mason-jar production. The government, which had rationed foodstuffs and the tins used to hold them, encouraged Americans to cultivate victory gardenso and preserve what they grew at home. Between 1939 and 1949, Americans bought more than three million canning jars. But the Mason-jar heyday did not last. In the postwar years, Americans left farms for the suburbs and houses with refrigerators. Farmers learned how to freeze their bounty, and even in those days, Elias says, many didn't live far from a supermarket.
Today original Mason jars are prized collectibles. There are lots of them, which, the historian Andrew F. Smith points out, ''is a testament to the number of Mason jars that were in fact used.'' In contemporary America, Mason jars are as likely to hold pencils as apricot jam. But home canning has gained traction among a certain class of urban locavores. ''It's kind of for the foodies,'' Smith says.
''Do I think it's a mass movement?'' he adds. ''No.''
GLASS MENAGERIE
Bill Lindsey started collecting glass bottles in high school. He now owns well over a thousand, and he writes about them for the Society for Historical Archaeology. Here he discusses the value and legacy of the Mason jar.
What effect did the Mason jar have on the glass-jar industry? Mason jars are the glass-jar industry. The first machine that was successful for making glass containers was making Mason jars.
Are they considered collectible? It's probably the most common jar, but there are hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of variations. What really matters most for collectibility is color. Cobalt blue is probably the supreme one; there's only a few of those around, and they would sell for $10,000 or $15,000 for a jar.
Has it changed much since the original design? There have been a few iterations, but it's really kind of phenomenal that the same basic design is still in use today. There have been a lot of different patents through the years, but in the end what won was the screw-top Mason jar.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENS MORTENSEN
 PROP STYLIST: JOSEPHINE SHOKRIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); PATENTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); HISTORY (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); WRITERS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); WORLD WAR II (62%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (50%)

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (58%)

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (58%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (58%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (58%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1029 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
IN TURKEY, FEARS OF RETREAT
ON ISSUE OF WOMEN'S RIGHTS
A recent spike of high-profile attacks against women has rights groups raising the alarm that the country is backsliding on women's rights. They say women's progress is being undermined by Turkey's flagging prospects for European Union membership and a Muslim-inspired government that is embracing the conservative values of the Arab world. Page 6
THE CEASE-FIRE IN SYRIA
A United Nations-backed cease-fire has neither stopped the fighting in Syria nor forced the government to pull its troops from civilian neighborhoods. It has been called a failure by activists still dodging bullets on the streets of Syria and by senior Obama administration officials. News Analysis, Neil MacFarquhar. PAGE 6 
IRAQI TWIST ON SHAKESPEARE
In an Iraqi adaptation of ''Romeo and Juliet'' at the National Theater in Baghdad, it is not poison or a dagger that takes the lives of the young lovers, but a suicide bomb. The Montagues and Capulets are divided not just by family, but also by religious sect. And the play is sprinkled with references to Blackwater, Iranians and the American reconstruction effort. Page 10
AFGHAN OFFICIAL ATTACKED
Insurgents with small pistols hidden in their shoes managed to force their way through a security checkpoint and make it to the threshold of the governor's office in Kandahar before being shot and killed by guards, according to an account by the governor and the provincial police chief. The governor was not hurt, but two of his guards were killed. Page 12
PROTESTS IN MALAYSIA
Protesters in Kuala Lumpur called for an overhaul of Malaysia's election system to ensure that a vote expected in June is free and fair. The police fired tear gas and arrested nearly 400 people. PAGE 16
NATIONAL
HOUSING CHILDREN
ILLEGALLY IN UNITED STATES
Thousands of immigrants under age 18 are arrested every year illegally crossing the border on their own, unaccompanied by a parent or guardian. This month, federal officials began housing 200 of these children at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, which is not licensed for this purpose. Page 18
HAIRCUTS BEFORE DAWN
Anytime Cutz in Atlanta is the barbershop that never closes. And that has made it something of a cult institution in this Southern capital that relishes its fashion and night life. Other cities are taking notice. Over the past decade, 24-hour barbershops and salons have opened in New York, London and Las Vegas. Atlanta Journal. Page 19
ABRUPT DEBUT AT THE MET
The Dutch tenor Frank van Aken made an unexpected debut at the Metropolitan Opera House by substituting for Jonas Kaufmann, the intended Siegfried in Wagner's ''Walkure'' who fell ill. Mr. van Aken is married to Eva-Maria Westbroek, who is singing Sieglinde. PAGE 25
Metropolitan
100 YEARS OF STAYING PUT
ON EAST 84TH STREET
When Lillian Jacobs was 2, in 1911 or '12, her family moved from the Lower East Side into a tenement building on East 84th Street, just off York Avenue. People came and went over the years, but the character of the area has largely remained the same and so has Ms. Jacobs. Page 1
THE CATHOLIC WORKER
May 1 marks the 79th anniversary of Dorothy Day's great achievement: The Catholic Worker. The movement's vision of activist faith couldn't be further from the moralizing of the religious right that has seemed to define Christianity's incursion on politics since the 1980s. Big City, Ginia Bellafante. Page 1
SPORTS
FOR COACH OF THE BULLS,
BASKETBALL IS EVERYTHING
The Bulls' Tom Thibodeau, last year's coach of the year, is perhaps the most obsessive person in a profession populated by those proud to be obsessed. No one can recall when he last took a vacation, and the first time he took part in a family holiday in 20 years came during the N.B.A. lockout. PAGE 1
COACHING AFTER A TRAGEDY
After the plane crash last September that wiped out the roster of Yaroslavl Lokomotiv, the coach Pyotr Vorobyov -- who has a reputation as something of a miracle worker for flagging teams -- was given the task of reviving one of Russia's most successful professional hockey franchises. Page 6
BROADCASTING FOR FANS
As Barcelona's Champions League semifinal against Chelsea approaches, callers to Radio Marca in Barcelona give voice to their rants, their demands, their predictions and perhaps most of all their complaints, which are broadcast across most of Catalonia. Page 9
OBITUARIES
AMOS VOGEL, 91
He exerted an influence on the history of film that few other non-filmmakers can claim, founding Cinema 16, which became the nation's largest membership film society, and directing the first New York Film Festival. Cinema 16 eventually drew about 7,000 subscribers and provided daring filmmakers from around the world a place for their work to be screened for American audiences. Page 26
HUGO FIORATO, 97
He was a former child prodigy who became the conductor of the New York City Ballet. He had many jobs with New York City Ballet during his 56 years there, and was a figure of continuity surpassed only by George Balanchine. Page 26
SUNDAY BUSINESS
A HUMBLED GAP TRIES TO REBUILD SALES
After defining 1990s khaki culture, Gap fell hard in the early 2000s. Management missteps, executive turnover and, not least, unappealing fashion punished sales. Now the clothing chain is trying new ways to build sales -- like making stores cheerier and its ad campaign brighter. PAGE 1
STRENGTH OR WEAKNESS
It was refreshing last week to hear Kevin M. Warsh, a former Fed governor, speak candidly and critically about the government backing that continues to support our largest banks. Equally refreshing were his prescriptions for eliminating the too-big-to-fail problem. Fair Game, Gretchen Morgenson. PAGE 1
FOLLOWING THE BREADCRUMBS
Although the Federal Trade Commission issued a consumer privacy report urging companies that collect and share customer information to give people more notification and control over the proliferation of their personal details, there is no easy way for consumers in the United States to track the data dealers who profile our spending, Web browsing and social media habits. Slipstream, Bill Mayer. PAGE 4
AUTOMOBILES
BEFORE TAKING OFF,
THERE IS A CHECKLIST
Government officials and designers have had to determine which regulations -- aircraft or automotive -- take precedence for the Terrafugia Transition, an airplane with folding wings and a drive system that enables it to be used on the road. PAGE 1
PEOPLE'S CHOICE WITH APPS
The Toyota Camry, the best-selling car in America for 13 of the last 14 years, now offers Entune, a multimedia system that connects cars to smartphones. PAGE 1
MAGAZINE
HOW SAMUEL L. JACKSON BECAME HIS OWN GENRE
Samuel L. Jackson has appeared in more than 100 films since 1972. His success as an actor lies in his ability to imbue even his vilest characters with a touch of humor, intelligence and humanity. PAGE 22
MOMMY HAD TO GO AWAY
Does taking meth while pregnant make Amanda Kimbrough responsible for her premature baby's death? Six months after her son's death, Colbert County in Alabama charged Ms. Kimbrough with chemical endangerment of a child. PAGE 30
BERNANKE'S LACK OF ACTION
While Ben Bernanke and the Federal Reserve went to great lengths to rescue the financial system, it has done far less to rescue workers. The United States economy remains deeply depressed, with long-term unemployment still high. Yet Mr. Bernanke and the Fed are not taking strong action to rectify the situation. PAGE 18
BOOK REVIEW
HOW AMERICA BECAME 'A NATION OF HERETICS'
Ross Douthat's ''Bad Religion: How We Became a Nation of Heretics,'' laments the departure from what he calls ''a Christian center,'' which ''has helped bind together a teeming, diverse and fissiparous nation.'' He argues that Christianity ''provided an invisible mortar for our culture and a common vocabulary for our great debates.'' PAGE 13
'ARE YOU MY MOTHER?'
If one is at first glance tempted to dismiss Alison Bechdel's ''Are You My Mother?'' as a glorified comic strip, one would be wildly and woefully misguided: it is as complicated, brainy, inventive and satisfying as the finest prose memoirs. Page 11
'WHEN GOD TALKS BACK'
In ''When God Talks Back,'' T. M. Luhrmann explains how rational people living in the 21st century can believe that God speaks to them -- and why the rest of us should take them seriously. PAGE 12
SUNDAY REVIEW
WHY PRESIDENT OBAMA SHOULD BE SEEN AS A HAWK
The president has turned out to be one of the most militarily aggressive American leaders in decades. Liberals helped to elect Barack Obama in part because of his opposition to the Iraq war, and probably don't celebrate all of the president's many military accomplishments. But they are sizable. Opinion, Peter L. Bergen. PAGE 1
Editorial
A SENATOR FIGHTS BACK
UPHILL AND UNDERFUNDED
Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, is challenging outside political ads, but it will be an uphill fight. Republican interest groups are outspending her by 3 to 1. Sunday Review, Page 10
COZY DEAL
Is medical regulation weakened when companies that make drugs and medical devices pay for it? Sunday Review, Page 10
TRUTH AND ATONEMENT
In a bittersweet postscript to the brutal history of eugenics in America, North Carolina aims to become the first state to offer monetary compensation to victims of past programs. Sunday Review, Page 10
OP-ED
MAUREEN DOWD
A Catholic Church more horrified by nuns who advocate for the poor than by priests who attack children. Sunday Review, Page 11
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
A message for Pope Benedict: You are crazy to mess with nuns. Sunday Review, Page 11
FRANK BRUNI
College these days is a luxury item -- and a luxury item with uncertain returns. Sunday Review, Page 3
ROSS DOUTHAT
The problems that Americans are facing are nothing like the plight of the Japanese. Sunday Review, Page 12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (93%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (91%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); CHILDREN (87%); GOVERNORS (86%); BARBER SHOPS (84%); SHOOTINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); RIOTS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); RELIGION (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); OPERA (62%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) MALAYSIA (93%); SYRIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (92%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1030 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DIGITAL DOMAIN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Chicken Scratches Vs. E-Prescriptions

BYLINE: By RANDALL STROSS. 
Randall Stross is an author based in Silicon Valley and a professor of business at San Jose State University. E-mail: stross@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AS e-mail and texting have become our favored means of written communication, handwriting has almost disappeared. Penmanship is becoming a modern form of hieroglyphics, intelligible only to literary scholars.
But one place where handwriting persists is on medical prescriptions, and that's unfortunate. Sloppy writing or inappropriate directions can lead to what doctors delicately refer to as preventable A.D.E.'s, or adverse drug events. These can encompass minor but still avoidable problems, like rashes or diarrhea, and much more serious events like, well, death.
Studies show that errors are much less likely if a doctor clicks to select medications from an onscreen list and sends the prescription data via computer to the pharmacy. Rainu Kaushal, a professor of medical informatics at Weill Cornell Medical College, led a study published in 2010 in which she and four colleagues followed prescriptions issued by a sample of providers in outpatient settings in New York. (Providers included physicians, physician assistants and nurse practitioners.) Some were prescribing electronically for the first time, and some continued to use paper. 
The researchers found an astonishing 37 errors for every 100 paper prescriptions, versus around 7 per 100 for those who used e-prescribing software.
These errors didn't even include legibility issues, when the pharmacist couldn't read the handwriting with confidence and called the provider to clarify.
Earlier, when the participants who would switch to e-prescribing were still using paper, they had almost 88 legibility errors per 100 prescriptions. (Some prescriptions had more than one error.) An illegible prescription requires time to sort out with the provider. ''In the case of an urgent medication,'' Dr. Kaushal says, ''the delay can result in patient harm.''
Previous studies of prescriptions in hospital settings have suggested error rates of about 5 per 100 paper prescriptions. Most were not serious, but about 7 percent had potential for harm. The Institute of Medicine has estimated annual costs for preventable A.D.E.'s in hospital settings alone at about $2 billion in the United States.
Yet only about 36 percent of all prescriptions were delivered electronically in the United States in 2011, according to a report to be published in May by Surescripts, which maintains an e-prescribing network.
E-prescribing comes as part of the switch to electronic health records, which can cost a medical practice tens of thousands of dollars. The stimulus package passed in 2009 included provisions that theoretically ease the financial burden for doctors, but the payments are tied to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements that are spread out over five years. So the upfront costs remain substantial.
In addition to those costs, the other large obstacle to adopting electronic records is their impact on office work flow, Dr. Kaushal says. More hours may have to be added to the workday to enter data. ''These systems are far from plug and play,'' she says.
The number of hospitals using e-prescribing is growing rapidly, but still only about 30 percent have made the switch, says David W. Bates, chief of the division of general internal medicine and primary care at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston and a professor at the Harvard Medical School.
Even when they install the technology, hospitals often leave e-prescribing as an option for providers but don't require it. ''What one sees often is about two-thirds of prescriptions are generated electronically'' at these hospitals, Dr. Bates says, ''but it's hard to get that remaining third converted.''
In Australia, handwriting has been largely eliminated from prescribing. Johanna I. Westbrook, director of the Center for Health Systems and Safety Research at the University of New South Wales, says that about a decade ago, ''the government provided financial incentives for family physicians to introduce computers into the practice.'' Today, about 90 percent of those practices are computerized, but most pharmacies don't receive prescriptions electronically. So the provider uses a computer and printer to prepare a neat prescription in paper form that the patient drops off at the pharmacy.
Reducing prescription errors can mean more than eliminating handwriting. Software is needed to integrate prescriptions with a patient's electronic health record and to check for adverse interactions. This ''decision support'' software can have its own issues. It must be vigilant in looking for potential problems, but not overzealous. ''Decision support is leading to 'alert fatigue,' '' Professor Westbrook says. ''The consequence is providers ignore the alerts and the system then can't prevent all of the medication errors that it could.''
On balance, though, it's clear that e-prescriptions help prevent errors.
Such prescriptions were not unknown even in the 1990s, so clicks have long seemed to be on the verge of replacing scribbles. Perhaps it won't take another 20 years before the prescription pad is placed next to the jar of leeches as an exhibit in the Museum of Medical Curiosities.

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID POHL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); LITERATURE (77%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (77%); ADVERSE DRUG EVENT REPORTING (77%); NURSES & NURSING (77%); PHARMACISTS (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); MEDICAID (72%); PHYSICIANS ASSISTANTS (72%); MEDICAL RECORDS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (69%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (66%); MEDICARE (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1031 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE IECONOMY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3878 words

HEADLINE: How Apple Sidesteps Billions in Taxes

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG and DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI; Additional reporting was contributed by Keith Bradsher in Hong Kong, Siem Eikelenboom in Amsterdam, Dean Greenaway in the British Virgin Islands, Scott Sayare in Luxembourg and Jason Woodard in Singapore.

 BODY:
RENO, Nev. -- Apple, the world's most profitable technology company, doesn't design iPhones here. It doesn't run AppleCare customer service from this city. And it doesn't manufacture MacBooks or iPads anywhere nearby.
Yet, with a handful of employees in a small office here in Reno, Apple has done something central to its corporate strategy: it has avoided millions of dollars in taxes in California and 20 other states.
Apple's headquarters are in Cupertino, Calif. By putting an office in Reno, just 200 miles away, to collect and invest the company's profits, Apple sidesteps state income taxes on some of those gains.
California's corporate tax rate is 8.84 percent. Nevada's? Zero. 
Setting up an office in Reno is just one of many legal methods Apple uses to reduce its worldwide tax bill by billions of dollars each year. As it has in Nevada, Apple has created subsidiaries in low-tax places like Ireland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the British Virgin Islands -- some little more than a letterbox or an anonymous office -- that help cut the taxes it pays around the world.
Almost every major corporation tries to minimize its taxes, of course. For Apple, the savings are especially alluring because the company's profits are so high. Wall Street analysts predict Apple could earn up to $45.6 billion in its current fiscal year -- which would be a record for any American business.
Apple serves as a window on how technology giants have taken advantage of tax codes written for an industrial age and ill suited to today's digital economy. Some profits at companies like Apple, Google, Amazon, Hewlett-Packard and Microsoft derive not from physical goods but from royalties on intellectual property, like the patents on software that makes devices work. Other times, the products themselves are digital, like downloaded songs. It is much easier for businesses with royalties and digital products to move profits to low-tax countries than it is, say, for grocery stores or automakers. A downloaded application, unlike a car, can be sold from anywhere.
The growing digital economy presents a conundrum for lawmakers overseeing corporate taxation: although technology is now one of the nation's largest and most valued industries, many tech companies are among the least taxed, according to government and corporate data. Over the last two years, the 71 technology companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- including Apple, Google, Yahoo and Dell -- reported paying worldwide cash taxes at a rate that, on average, was a third less than other S.& P. companies'. (Cash taxes may include payments for multiple years.)
Even among tech companies, Apple's rates are low. And while the company has remade industries, ignited economic growth and delighted customers, it has also devised corporate strategies that take advantage of gaps in the tax code, according to former executives who helped create those strategies.
Apple, for instance, was among the first tech companies to designate overseas salespeople in high-tax countries in a manner that allowed them to sell on behalf of low-tax subsidiaries on other continents, sidestepping income taxes, according to former executives. Apple was a pioneer of an accounting technique known as the ''Double Irish With a Dutch Sandwich,'' which reduces taxes by routing profits through Irish subsidiaries and the Netherlands and then to the Caribbean. Today, that tactic is used by hundreds of other corporations -- some of which directly imitated Apple's methods, say accountants at those companies.
Without such tactics, Apple's federal tax bill in the United States most likely would have been $2.4 billion higher last year, according to a recent study by a former Treasury Department economist, Martin A. Sullivan. As it stands, the company paid cash taxes of $3.3 billion around the world on its reported profits of $34.2 billion last year, a tax rate of 9.8 percent. (Apple does not disclose what portion of those payments was in the United States, or what portion is assigned to previous or future years.)
By comparison, Wal-Mart last year paid worldwide cash taxes of $5.9 billion on its booked profits of $24.4 billion, a tax rate of 24 percent, which is about average for non-tech companies.
Apple's domestic tax bill has piqued particular curiosity among corporate tax experts because although the company is based in the United States, its profits -- on paper, at least -- are largely foreign. While Apple contracts out much of the manufacturing and assembly of its products to other companies overseas, the majority of Apple's executives, product designers, marketers, employees, research and development, and retail stores are in the United States. Tax experts say it is therefore reasonable to expect that most of Apple's profits would be American as well. The nation's tax code is based on the concept that a company ''earns'' income where value is created, rather than where products are sold.
However, Apple's accountants have found legal ways to allocate about 70 percent of its profits overseas, where tax rates are often much lower, according to corporate filings.
Neither the government nor corporations make tax returns public, and a company's taxable income often differs from the profits disclosed in annual reports. Companies report their cash outlays for income taxes in their annual Form 10-K, but it is impossible from those numbers to determine precisely how much, in total, corporations pay to governments. In Apple's last annual disclosure, the company listed its worldwide taxes -- which includes cash taxes paid as well as deferred taxes and other charges -- at $8.3 billion, an effective tax rate of almost a quarter of profits.
However, tax analysts and scholars said that figure most likely overstated how much the company would hand to governments because it included sums that might never be paid. ''The information on 10-Ks is fiction for most companies,'' said Kimberly Clausing, an economist at Reed College who specializes in multinational taxation. ''But for tech companies it goes from fiction to farcical.''
Apple, in a statement, said it ''has conducted all of its business with the highest of ethical standards, complying with applicable laws and accounting rules.'' It added, ''We are incredibly proud of all of Apple's contributions.''
Apple ''pays an enormous amount of taxes, which help our local, state and federal governments,'' the statement also said. ''In the first half of fiscal year 2012, our U.S. operations have generated almost $5 billion in federal and state income taxes, including income taxes withheld on employee stock gains, making us among the top payers of U.S. income tax.''
The statement did not specify how it arrived at $5 billion, nor did it address the issue of deferred taxes, which the company may pay in future years or decide to defer indefinitely. The $5 billion figure appears to include taxes ultimately owed by Apple employees.
The sums paid by Apple and other tech corporations is a point of contention in the company's backyard.
A mile and a half from Apple's Cupertino headquarters is De Anza College, a community college that Steve Wozniak, one of Apple's founders, attended from 1969 to 1974. Because of California's state budget crisis, De Anza has cut more than a thousand courses and 8 percent of its faculty since 2008.
Now, De Anza faces a budget gap so large that it is confronting a ''death spiral,'' the school's president, Brian Murphy, wrote to the faculty in January. Apple, of course, is not responsible for the state's financial shortfall, which has numerous causes. But the company's tax policies are seen by officials like Mr. Murphy as symptomatic of why the crisis exists.
''I just don't understand it,'' he said in an interview. ''I'll bet every person at Apple has a connection to De Anza. Their kids swim in our pool. Their cousins take classes here. They drive past it every day, for Pete's sake.
''But then they do everything they can to pay as few taxes as possible.''
Escaping State Taxes
In 2006, as Apple's bank accounts and stock price were rising, company executives came here to Reno and established a subsidiary named Braeburn Capital to manage and invest the company's cash. Braeburn is a variety of apple that is simultaneously sweet and tart.
Today, Braeburn's offices are down a narrow hallway inside a bland building that sits across from an abandoned restaurant. Inside, there are posters of candy-colored iPods and a large Apple insignia, as well as a handful of desks and computer terminals.
When someone in the United States buys an iPhone, iPad or other Apple product, a portion of the profits from that sale is often deposited into accounts controlled by Braeburn, and then invested in stocks, bonds or other financial instruments, say company executives. Then, when those investments turn a profit, some of it is shielded from tax authorities in California by virtue of Braeburn's Nevada address.
Since founding Braeburn, Apple has earned more than $2.5 billion in interest and dividend income on its cash reserves and investments around the globe. If Braeburn were located in Cupertino, where Apple's top executives work, a portion of the domestic income would be taxed at California's 8.84 percent corporate income tax rate.
But in Nevada there is no state corporate income tax and no capital gains tax.
What's more, Braeburn allows Apple to lower its taxes in other states -- including Florida, New Jersey and New Mexico -- because many of those jurisdictions use formulas that reduce what is owed when a company's financial management occurs elsewhere. Apple does not disclose what portion of cash taxes is paid to states, but the company reported that it owed $762 million in state income taxes nationwide last year. That effective state tax rate is higher than the rate of many other tech companies, but as Ms. Clausing and other tax analysts have noted, such figures are often not reliable guides to what is actually paid.
Dozens of other companies, including Cisco, Harley-Davidson and Microsoft, have also set up Nevada subsidiaries that bypass taxes in other states. Hundreds of other corporations reap similar savings by locating offices in Delaware.
But some in California are unhappy that Apple and other California-based companies have moved financial operations to tax-free states -- particularly since lawmakers have offered them tax breaks to keep them in the state.
In 1996, 1999 and 2000, for instance, the California Legislature increased the state's research and development tax credit, permitting hundreds of companies, including Apple, to avoid billions in state taxes, according to legislative analysts. Apple has reported tax savings of $412 million from research and development credits of all sorts since 1996.
Then, in 2009, after an intense lobbying campaign led by Apple, Cisco, Oracle, Intel and other companies, the California Legislature reduced taxes for corporations based in California but operating in other states or nations. Legislative analysts say the change will eventually cost the state government about $1.5 billion a year.
Such lost revenue is one reason California now faces a budget crisis, with a shortfall of more than $9.2 billion in the coming fiscal year alone. The state has cut some health care programs, significantly raised tuition at state universities, cut services to the disabled and proposed a $4.8 billion reduction in spending on kindergarten and other grades.
Apple declined to comment on its Nevada operations. Privately, some executives said it was unfair to criticize the company for reducing its tax bill when thousands of other companies acted similarly. If Apple volunteered to pay more in taxes, it would put itself at a competitive disadvantage, they argued, and do a disservice to its shareholders.
Indeed, Apple's decisions have yielded benefits. After announcing one of the best quarters in its history last week, the company said it had net profits of $24.7 billion on revenues of $85.5 billion in the first half of the fiscal year, and more than $110 billion in the bank, according to company filings.
A Global Tax Strategy
Every second of every hour, millions of times each day, in living rooms and at cash registers, consumers click the ''Buy'' button on iTunes or hand over payment for an Apple product.
And with that, an international financial engine kicks into gear, moving money across continents in the blink of an eye. While Apple's Reno office helps the company avoid state taxes, its international subsidiaries -- particularly the company's assignment of sales and patent royalties to other nations -- help reduce taxes owed to the American and other governments.
For instance, one of Apple's subsidiaries in Luxembourg, named iTunes S.a r.l., has just a few dozen employees, according to corporate documents filed in that nation and a current executive. The only indication of the subsidiary's presence outside is a letterbox with a lopsided slip of paper reading ''ITUNES SARL.''
Luxembourg has just half a million residents. But when customers across Europe, Africa or the Middle East -- and potentially elsewhere -- download a song, television show or app, the sale is recorded in this small country, according to current and former executives. In 2011, iTunes S.a r.l.'s revenue exceeded $1 billion, according to an Apple executive, representing roughly 20 percent of iTunes's worldwide sales.
The advantages of Luxembourg are simple, say Apple executives. The country has promised to tax the payments collected by Apple and numerous other tech corporations at low rates if they route transactions through Luxembourg. Taxes that would have otherwise gone to the governments of Britain, France, the United States and dozens of other nations go to Luxembourg instead, at discounted rates.
''We set up in Luxembourg because of the favorable taxes,'' said Robert Hatta, who helped oversee Apple's iTunes retail marketing and sales for European markets until 2007. ''Downloads are different from tractors or steel because there's nothing you can touch, so it doesn't matter if your computer is in France or England. If you're buying from Luxembourg, it's a relationship with Luxembourg.''
An Apple spokesman declined to comment on the Luxembourg operations.
Downloadable goods illustrate how modern tax systems have become increasingly ill equipped for an economy dominated by electronic commerce. Apple, say former executives, has been particularly talented at identifying legal tax loopholes and hiring accountants who, as much as iPhone designers, are known for their innovation. In the 1980s, for instance, Apple was among the first major corporations to designate overseas distributors as ''commissionaires,'' rather than retailers, said Michael Rashkin, Apple's first director of tax policy, who helped set up the system before leaving in 1999.
To customers the designation was virtually unnoticeable. But because commissionaires never technically take possession of inventory -- which would require them to recognize taxes -- the structure allowed a salesman in high-tax Germany, for example, to sell computers on behalf of a subsidiary in low-tax Singapore. Hence, most of those profits would be taxed at Singaporean, rather than German, rates.
The Double Irish
In the late 1980s, Apple was among the pioneers in creating a tax structure -- known as the Double Irish -- that allowed the company to move profits into tax havens around the world, said Tim Jenkins, who helped set up the system as an Apple European finance manager until 1994.
Apple created two Irish subsidiaries -- today named Apple Operations International and Apple Sales International -- and built a glass-encased factory amid the green fields of Cork. The Irish government offered Apple tax breaks in exchange for jobs, according to former executives with knowledge of the relationship.
But the bigger advantage was that the arrangement allowed Apple to send royalties on patents developed in California to Ireland. The transfer was internal, and simply moved funds from one part of the company to a subsidiary overseas. But as a result, some profits were taxed at the Irish rate of approximately 12.5 percent, rather than at the American statutory rate of 35 percent. In 2004, Ireland, a nation of less than 5 million, was home to more than one-third of Apple's worldwide revenues, according to company filings. (Apple has not released more recent estimates.)
Moreover, the second Irish subsidiary -- the ''Double'' -- allowed other profits to flow to tax-free companies in the Caribbean. Apple has assigned partial ownership of its Irish subsidiaries to Baldwin Holdings Unlimited in the British Virgin Islands, a tax haven, according to documents filed there and in Ireland. Baldwin Holdings has no listed offices or telephone number, and its only listed director is Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's chief financial officer, who lives and works in Cupertino. Baldwin apples are known for their hardiness while traveling.
Finally, because of Ireland's treaties with European nations, some of Apple's profits could travel virtually tax-free through the Netherlands -- the Dutch Sandwich -- which made them essentially invisible to outside observers and tax authorities.
Robert Promm, Apple's controller in the mid-1990s, called the strategy ''the worst-kept secret in Europe.''
It is unclear precisely how Apple's overseas finances now function. In 2006, the company reorganized its Irish divisions as unlimited corporations, which have few requirements to disclose financial information.
However, tax experts say that strategies like the Double Irish help explain how Apple has managed to keep its international taxes to 3.2 percent of foreign profits last year, to 2.2 percent in 2010, and in the single digits for the last half-decade, according to the company's corporate filings.
Apple declined to comment on its operations in Ireland, the Netherlands and the British Virgin Islands.
Apple reported in its last annual disclosures that $24 billion -- or 70 percent -- of its total $34.2 billion in pretax profits were earned abroad, and 30 percent were earned in the United States. But Mr. Sullivan, the former Treasury Department economist who today writes for the trade publication Tax Analysts, said that ''given that all of the marketing and products are designed here, and the patents were created in California, that number should probably be at least 50 percent.''
If profits were evenly divided between the United States and foreign countries, Apple's federal tax bill would have increased by about $2.4 billion last year, he said, because a larger amount of its profits would have been subject to the United States' higher corporate income tax rate.
''Apple, like many other multinationals, is using perfectly legal methods to keep a significant portion of their profits out of the hands of the I.R.S.,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''And when America's most profitable companies pay less, the general public has to pay more.''
Other tax experts, like Edward D. Kleinbard, former chief of staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, have reached similar conclusions.
''This tax avoidance strategy used by Apple and other multinationals doesn't just minimize the companies' U.S. taxes,'' said Mr. Kleinbard, now a professor of tax law at the University of Southern California. ''It's German tax and French tax and tax in the U.K. and elsewhere.''
One downside for companies using such strategies is that when money is sent overseas, it cannot be returned to the United States without incurring a new tax bill.
However, that might change. Apple, which holds $74 billion offshore, last year aligned itself with more than four dozen companies and organizations urging Congress for a ''repatriation holiday'' that would permit American businesses to bring money home without owing large taxes. The coalition, which includes Google, Microsoft and Pfizer, has hired dozens of lobbyists to push for the measure, which has not yet come up for vote. The tax break would cost the federal government $79 billion over the next decade, according to a Congressional report.
Fallout in California
In one of his last public appearances before his death, Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, addressed Cupertino's City Council last June, seeking approval to build a new headquarters.
Most of the Council was effusive in its praise of the proposal. But one councilwoman, Kris Wang, had questions.
How will residents benefit? she asked. Perhaps Apple could provide free wireless Internet to Cupertino, she suggested, something Google had done in neighboring Mountain View.
''See, I'm a simpleton; I've always had this view that we pay taxes, and the city should do those things,'' Mr. Jobs replied, according to a video of the meeting. ''That's why we pay taxes. Now, if we can get out of paying taxes, I'll be glad to put up Wi-Fi.''
He suggested that, if the City Council were unhappy, perhaps Apple could move. The company is Cupertino's largest taxpayer, with more than $8 million in property taxes assessed by local officials last year.
Ms. Wang dropped her suggestion.
Cupertino, Ms. Wang said in an interview, has real financial problems. ''We're proud to have Apple here,'' said Ms. Wang, who has since left the Council. ''But how do you get them to feel more connected?''
Other residents argue that Apple does enough as Cupertino's largest employer and that tech companies, in general, have buoyed California's economy. Apple's workers eat in local restaurants, serve on local boards and donate to local causes. Silicon Valley's many millionaires pay personal state income taxes. In its statement, Apple said its ''international growth is creating jobs domestically, since we oversee most of our operations from California.''
''The vast majority of our global work force remains in the U.S.,'' the statement continued, ''with more than 47,000 full-time employees in all 50 states.''
Moreover, Apple has given nearby Stanford University more than $50 million in the last two years. The company has also donated $50 million to an African aid organization. In its statement, Apple said: ''We have contributed to many charitable causes but have never sought publicity for doing so. Our focus has been on doing the right thing, not getting credit for it. In 2011, we dramatically expanded the number of deserving organizations we support by initiating a matching gift program for our employees.''
Still, some, including De Anza College's president, Mr. Murphy, say the philanthropy and job creation do not offset Apple's and other companies' decisions to circumvent taxes. Within 20 minutes of the financially ailing school are the global headquarters of Google, Facebook, Intel, Hewlett-Packard and Cisco.
''When it comes time for all these companies -- Google and Apple and Facebook and the rest -- to pay their fair share, there's a knee-jerk resistance,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''They're philosophically antitax, and it's decimating the state.''
''But I'm not complaining,'' he added. ''We can't afford to upset these guys. We need every dollar we can get.''
Protecting Profits: The iEconomy: Articles in this series are examining challenges posed by increasingly globalized high-tech industries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Braeburn Capital, an Apple subsidiary in Reno, Nev., manages and invests the company's cash. Nevada has a corporate tax rate of zero, as opposed to the 8.84 percent levied in California, where Apple has its headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22)
Last June, Steven P. Jobs, then the chief of Apple, top, introduced plans for a new corporate campus, above, to the City Council of Cupertino, Calif. Residents disagree on whether the company pays its fair share. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CITY OF CUPERTINO, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
APPLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Brian Murphy, center, head of De Anza College in Cupertino, Calif., says the big tech firms are ''philosophically antitax, and it's decimating the state.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25) GRAPHICS: Income before taxes, worldwide: 2011 $34.2 billion (Source: company filings) (A1)
'Double Irish With A Dutch Sandwich': Numerous companies take advantage of loopholes in international laws to move profits around the world, avoiding taxes. Many of these techniques rely on transferring profits on patent royalties to places like Ireland. Here is one technique typical of what Apple and others pioneered. (A22)
Shrinking Corporate Tax Rates: Corporate profits are far bigger now than they were in 1977, the year Apple was incorporated ...
... and corporate tax rates have fallen.
Some tax experts say that Apple moves more profits offshore than appears justified by its operations, which are largely in the United States. And overseas, technology companies pay particularly low taxes. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
company reports
 American Tax Policy Institute) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); SMARTPHONES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); PATENTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (62%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); RENO, NV, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEVADA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRELAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%); LUXEMBOURG (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1032 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 5657 words

HEADLINE: Mommy Had To Go Away for A While

BYLINE: By ADA CALHOUN

 BODY:
On a rainy day just after Thanksgiving, Amanda Kimbrough played with her 2-year-old daughter in her raw-wood-paneled living room, petting her terriers and half-watching TV. Kimbrough, who is 32, lives a few miles outside Russellville, a town of fewer than 10,000 in rural northwestern Alabama, near the border of Franklin and Colbert Counties. Textiles were the economic engine of the area until the 1990s, when the industry went into decline and mills shut down. Now one of the region's leading employers is Pilgrim's, a chicken supplier. The median household income is $31,213, and more than a third of children live below the poverty line.
As family members came in and out of the room and one daytime show slid into another -- ''The People's Court,'' ''Intervention,'' ''Jerry Springer,'' ''The Ellen DeGeneres Show'' -- Kimbrough talked about her arrest following the death of her third child, Timmy Jr. Born premature at 25 weeks on April 29, 2008, Timmy Jr. weighed 2 pounds 1 ounce, and lived only 19 minutes. When Kimbrough tested positive for methamphetamine, her two daughters were swiftly removed from her custody, and for 90 days, she was allowed only supervised visits. Social services mandated parenting classes and drug treatment. 
That would have been a typical response in most places, but Alabama is different. Six months after Timmy Jr.'s death, the district attorney in Colbert County charged Kimbrough with chemical endangerment of a child, a Class A felony (because the infant died) that carries a mandatory sentence of 10 years to life. She turned herself in, and bail was set at $250,000. At the trial, the state completed its case in two days. On the advice of her lawyer, Kimbrough then pleaded guilty and received the minimum sentence of 10 years.
According to Kyle Brown, the chief assistant district attorney in the case, Kimbrough might have received far more time if a jury had found her guilty. ''She caused the death of another person,'' Angela Hulsey, an assistant district attorney on the case, said, ''a person that will never have the chance to go to school, go to the prom, get married, have children of their own. You're dealing with the most innocent of victims.''
When I met Kimbrough last fall, she was free on an appeal bond. (Her plea bargain allows her lawyers to appeal her conviction on constitutional grounds without contesting the specifics of her case.) Kimbrough said she never had a big problem with meth, but admitted that she started using the drug in her mid-20s, after her first marriage collapsed. When she was pregnant with Timmy Jr., she did meth only once, she told me.
''One time,'' she said. ''I don't even know why I done it. I guess the Devil knocked on my shoulder that day.'' Otherwise, Kimbrough insisted, she abstained from drugs during her pregnancy, even refusing painkillers for an infected tooth for fear they would hurt the baby. Timmy Jr.'s birth had many potentially complicating factors, including prematurity and a prolapsed cord. Kimbrough says she was eager to have the child -- she had always wanted a boy. She and her husband, Timmy Sr., were told at an early-April prenatal visit that Timmy Jr. would likely have Down syndrome, and while abortion was an option, the Kimbroughs, who oppose abortion on moral grounds, did not consider it. ''We didn't care if he was special needs,'' Timmy Sr. said. ''We would have loved him.''
Kimbrough told me that she was devastated by the loss of her baby and scared of being locked up. She described a recent visit to her brother in prison, where he is serving time for burglary and other charges, and how upset she was by the place.
''I feel for people on drugs,'' she continued. ''You got to stay away from people that's on them. I learned that in rehab, and I been clean ever since. I feel like I iced the cake with this one. To me, losing a child. . . . '' She stared off into space.
Kimbrough's cheerful 10-year-old, Brooke, arrived home from school, shaking the rain off her coat and chatting about a new necklace. In quick succession, Kimbrough checked Brooke's backpack for new library books, fixed peanut-butter crackers and braided a doll's hair. ''She has to take care of everybody,'' her adult stepdaughter Amy told me. ''She's a mother hen.''
You might not expect a rural Alabama mother with a felony conviction to have in her corner a national army of feminists, civil libertarians and gynecologists, but Kimbrough's case has attracted the interest of groups like Planned Parenthood, the A.C.L.U. and the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, who all maintain that her conviction sets a dangerous precedent. Emma Ketteringham, the director of legal advocacy at the National Advocates for Pregnant Women, a New York-based reproductive-justice group, has been following Kimbrough's case closely. She has drafted ''friend of the court'' briefs for Kimbrough signed by groups like the National Organization for Women-Alabama and the American Medical Association. She argues that applying Alabama's chemical-endangerment law to pregnant women ''violates constitutional guarantees of liberty, privacy, equality, due process and freedom from cruel and unusual punishment.'' In effect, she says, under Alabama's chemical-endangerment law, pregnant women have become ''a special class of people that should be treated differently from every other citizen.'' And, she says, the law violates pregnant women's constitutional rights to equal protection under the law. Ketteringham also recruited two prominent Alabama lawyers, Jake Watson and Brian M. White, to take Kimbrough's case pro bono. ''I love babies, too, but I don't like locking up their mamas,'' Watson told me.
There have been approximately 60 chemical-endangerment prosecutions of new mothers in Alabama since 2006, the year the statute was enacted. Originally created to protect children from potentially explosive meth labs, Alabama's chemical-endangerment law prohibits a ''responsible person'' from ''exposing a child to an environment in which he or she . . . knowingly, recklessly or intentionally causes or permits a child to be exposed to, to ingest or inhale, or to have contact with a controlled substance, chemical substance or drug paraphernalia.''
Criminal convictions of women for their newborns' positive drug tests are rare in other states, lawyers familiar with these cases say. In most places, maternal drug use is considered a matter for child protective services, not for law enforcement. Advocates for Kimbrough insist that, in any case, Alabama's chemical-endangerment law was never meant to apply to pregnant women's drug use. ''The words 'womb,' 'uterus,' 'pregnant women' don't appear in the law,'' Ketteringham says. ''It was a law meant to protect children from meth labs.'' One state legislator has filed an amicus brief, claiming the law was not intended to be used this way, and the Legislature has repeatedly rejected amendments to expand the law's definition of ''child'' to explicitly mean ''fetus.'' But shortly after the law passed, Alabama prosecutors began extending the term ''environment'' to also mean the ''womb,'' and ''child'' to also mean ''fetus.'' In 2006, Tiffany Hitson was charged with chemical endangerment the day after she gave birth to a baby girl who tested positive for cocaine and marijuana but was otherwise healthy. When that prosecution was successful (Hitson was incarcerated for a year), other counties followed suit, making Alabama the national capital for prosecuting women on behalf of their newborn children.
Last summer, the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals upheld this expanded interpretation of the chemical-endangerment law, ruling that the dictionary definition of ''child'' includes ''unborn child,'' an interpretation that will be challenged when the state's Supreme Court considers Kimbrough's case in the coming months. But the implications of that ruling go far beyond Alabama. Critics like Ketteringham argue that Alabama's chemical-endangerment law offers a back door into what has become known as the ''fetal personhood'' argument.
Personhood USA, an organization based in Colorado, was founded in 2008 by Keith Mason after he became frustrated by the mainstream anti-abortion movement's incremental approach of restricting the availability of legal abortion. ''From my perspective, I saw a movement that was largely dying or dead and had a lack of enthusiasm from younger people and from people who had been in the fight for so many years,'' he told me. ''Something had to change. Personhood is that rallying point, because it's the crux of the issue.'' His movement seeks to establish the fetus's right to live as equal to that of the mother's.
Personhood advocates regard fetal rights as a civil rights issue, and they often compare themselves to abolitionists. ''I think it would be unequal protection to give the woman a pass when anyone else who injects drugs into a child would be prosecuted,'' Ben DuPre, director of Personhood Alabama, said. ''What it boils down to is, aren't these little children persons?''
The goal of Personhood USA is to establish that a fully rights-endowed person is created when sperm meets egg. To that end, it has introduced initiatives and measures in legislatures in 22 states. Though none of these measures have become law, some, like Proposition 26 in Mississippi, have made it to a ballot referendum, and other measures have passed legislative chambers in North Dakota, Montana and Oklahoma. The problem with those measures, from a legal perspective, says Lynn Paltrow, executive director of the National Advocates for Pregnant Women, is that ''there is no way to treat fertilized eggs, embryos and fetuses as separate constitutional persons without subtracting pregnant women from the community of constitutional persons.''
The sometimes vague language of the initiatives and measures masks what would be the ''sweeping effects on access to health care,'' says Alexa Kolbi-Molinas, a staff lawyer for the A.C.L.U.'s Reproductive Freedom Project. One district-court judge agreed with the A.C.L.U., which brought a suit to block a personhood initiative from the ballot in Nevada. Judge James E. Wilson ordered the sponsor of the state's personhood initiative to add clarifying language. As he wrote in his opinion in December: ''The initiative would protect a prenatal person regardless of whether or not the prenatal person would live, grow, or develop in the womb or survive birth; prevent all abortions even in the case of rape, incest or serious threats to the woman's health or life, or when a woman is suffering from a miscarriage, or as an emergency treatment for an ectopic pregnancy. . . .'' The initiative was withdrawn, but signatures are being gathered on a rewritten petition.
In Mississippi, Proposition 26 would have outlawed abortion, embryonic-stem-cell research, cancer treatments that might hurt a fetus and some popular methods of birth control. The measure was defeated, Paltrow said, ''because its implication was obvious: once the woman becomes pregnant, she has a second-class status in which she loses virtually every constitutional right, including a right to medical privacy.''
''At least Mississippi put it up to a vote,'' Ketteringham says. In Alabama, ''you essentially have a personhood measure in disguise.''
Critics of Alabama's chemical-endangerment law argue that drug use by pregnant women is best treated as a health issue, not a criminal one. Addiction, they say, can be treated, but drug users have to be willing to seek help, which they might be less likely to do if they fear arrest. ''To simplify a complex medical and psychosocial issue into a criminal issue is really just like using a hammer to play the piano,'' says Dr. Deborah Frank, a pediatrician and director of Boston Medical Center's Grow Clinic for Children. ''The whole definition of addiction is compulsive behavior in spite of adverse consequences -- like the person who keeps eating doughnuts even though their doctor tells them they're morbidly obese and going to die of a heart attack.'' Deterrents, experts like Frank say, don't work well when it comes to addicts and may even be counterproductive.
Heather Capps, a 25-year-old mother of three, was arrested in Marshall County, Ala., on Nov. 11, 2011, two days after giving birth via Caesarean section to a healthy boy who tested positive for Oxycodone. Capps says that she became addicted to the drug after it was prescribed for her scoliosis pain. When Capps learned she was pregnant, she knew she would be prosecuted if she gave birth to a baby who tested positive for drugs, and she also knew that the effects of withdrawal from quitting abruptly during pregnancy could be dangerous to her unborn child.
She went online, and after finding the Web site of National Advocates for Pregnant Women, called Ketteringham to ask for legal advice. Ketteringham confirmed that if Capps gave birth in Marshall County, she would most likely be prosecuted and recommended that she hire a lawyer. Capps had heard that prosecutors in nearby Jefferson County weren't bringing chemical-endangerment charges against drug-using pregnant women, but because she had two young sons in school she decided to stay where she was and to continue taking the lowest possible dose of Oxycodone she felt she could manage. She also posted some regrettable things during private Facebook conversations: ''I figured since I was just informed that im a crackhead (still wonderin how im the last to find out) and pregnant now ill just shoot thru my belly button strait into the uterus to make sure the baby gets high to.'' That Facebook post, shown on the local news after her arrest, made her a pariah. Her family insists the post was a cry for help. ''When she was told there was no help for her, and that she might lose the baby, she was petrified,'' her husband, Matthew Devin, says. ''She couldn't live with herself if she hurt one of our kids.''
Capps was arrested on the hospital grounds. She remained in jail for three months because her family could not afford to post her $500,000 bail. She was then sent to rehab and placed in a halfway house, where she continues to receive treatment. If she completes the program to the judge's satisfaction, her sentence will be dismissed. She is allowed to see her three children once a week on Sundays.
The recommended treatment for opiate addiction during pregnancy is a controlled dosage of methadone, says Dr. Robert Newman, of the International Center for Advancement of Addiction Treatment at Beth Israel, who says a prognosis for both mother and baby is good with long-term outpatient treatment. (Capps told me that the drug treatment she was offered while pregnant was at an inpatient facility in Birmingham.) Prosecutors I spoke with said they would not charge a woman taking prescribed methadone. But the law does not prohibit such a charge, and critics argue that the threat of prosecution discourages women from seeking addiction treatment. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists issued a statement in 2011 cautioning that women would even avoid prenatal care when they believed doctors were gathering evidence for law enforcement. Measures like Alabama's chemical-endangerment law, they said, are ''contrary to the welfare of the mother and fetus.'' State Senator Clay Scofield of Alabama, who is seeking to amend the state's chemical-endangerment law to include the fetus, dismisses this concern. ''The majority of women who are abusing meth already do not seek prenatal care,'' he told me.
There is anecdotal evidence to suggest that pregnant women in Alabama, aware that they may be arrested and their medical records subpoenaed if they or their babies test positive for drugs, may be changing their behavior -- although not necessarily as some prosecutors hoped. Carmen Howell, a defense lawyer in Enterprise, says she knows of one woman who drove to Georgia when she went into labor and another who gave birth to a three-pound baby in a bathtub at home. She is concerned that women who use drugs may also be having abortions to avoid prosecution. This law, she says, ''is a deterrent to choosing life.''
Last November, I accompanied Kimbrough and Timmy Sr. to Timmy Jr.'s grave in a well-tended cemetery near Kimbrough's parents' house. Kimbrough's grandfather was buried nearby; a gravestone portrait shows him driving a John Deere tractor. It was raining, and Kimbrough, shivering in a black turtleneck and jeans, rearranged metal butterflies, ceramic angels and a plastic cross until Timmy Sr. called out from their truck, ''Are you trying to get a cold?''
The funeral had been small. ''We only done close family,'' Kimbrough had told me earlier. ''I had a closed casket for my older kids cause he was so purple. I think about it every day. To me, that's punishment enough.''
''Don't upset yourself, now,'' Timmy Sr. said. He pushed back his slicked-back hair, revealing an upper-arm tattoo of a cross above which is written ''Amanda.''
''People look to her real bad,'' he said. ''I don't know why they want to make out like she done it on purpose or something. Us losing it and all was enough for me and her both. Them wanting to send her to prison for it, that just ain't right.'' Timmy Sr., who is 22 years older than his wife, and whom she affectionately calls ''Bro,'' told me that he once had trouble with meth, too. But, he said, he ''did a 180'' when he met Kimbrough. ''I been to rehab,'' he said. ''It's a disease.''
Back at home, Kimbrough went into her bedroom and came out with a white box containing knitted socks and an imprint of Timmy Jr.'s foot on paper. Neatly folded in a bag labeled with his birth date was Timmy Jr.'s hospital blanket decorated with a teddy-bear angel. ''There was one nurse who sat and talked to me,'' Kimbrough said. ''She was the only one who was really good to me. When they brought the baby in there, they acted like I didn't hold him long enough. Who wants to hold a dead baby, you know?'' she continued, apologetically. ''I held him for about 10 minutes.''
When I drove up to the address that Hope Ankrom gave me, I assumed I must have entered it incorrectly into the car's GPS. It was a palatial house in an upscale community with an 18-hole golf course. Ankrom was one of the first women to be prosecuted under Alabama's chemical-endangerment law. Most women against whom chemical-endangerment charges are brought are poor, defense lawyers say. But Ankrom's husband is an aircraft mechanic who makes six figures working as a contractor in Afghanistan. This house, which belongs to Ankrom's parents, a retired Army colonel and a nurse, is about a five-hour drive south of Kimbrough's home, and probably worth 10 times as much.
At 29, Ankrom seems like a mischievous teenager. She wore dangly silver earrings, a brown T-shirt, jeans and boots. Her three children (Bryson, now 3; Aubree, 4; and Paige, 5) raced around the living room in a blur of curly dark hair and sippy cups. She yelled at Bryson to come back from the open front door and helped Paige change from flip-flops to sneakers, then shooed all three children out the door to accompany their grandfather to McDonald's.
''Listen: silence,'' she said with a smile. Bryson, she told me, was born weighing almost six pounds. He was healthy but tested positive for marijuana and cocaine. Ankrom admits smoking pot but denies cocaine use. She said that she quit smoking pot for her first two pregnancies, but that during the third, her morning sickness was relentless. Marijuana kept her functional, she said, and so she continued in spite of her gynecologist's warning that she faced prosecution if she did not stop. She planned to quit a few weeks before her due date, assuming that she would then test negative. But Bryson came six weeks early.
When Bryson's drug-test results came back, the hospital called the Department of Human Resources, Alabama's child-protection service, which placed her children in the custody of her parents. ''The first night without my children, I thought I was just going to die,'' Ankrom said. She moved in with her parents so she could be around her children, but she was not allowed to be alone with them.
Two weeks later, the police came to the door with a warrant.
''Since I was breast-feeding, they let me pump a few times before they took me to jail,'' Ankrom said. They handcuffed her, walked her to the car in front of her parents' neighbors and then took her to a holding cell, where she spent a few hours before her parents posted bail. ''Boy, did I leak while I was in there!'' she said with a laugh. ''I had toilet paper crammed in my bra. There is nothing more painful than needing to express and not being able to.''
For several months Ankrom received regular, unannounced spot checks to make sure she wasn't alone with any of her children. A friend moved in to supervise her when her parents weren't home. Ankrom pleaded guilty to chemical endangerment and was given a suspended sentence with one year's probation. She completed mandatory drug treatment and continues to attend Narcotics Anonymous meetings for what she describes as a marijuana addiction. ''I really screwed up,'' she said. ''I can't blame anybody but myself.''
Ankrom now stays home with the children full time. Even if they don't need the money, she said, she wishes she could work. But the guilty plea has made that more difficult. ''What's killing me is I had a bright future,'' said Ankrom, who was studying to be a physical-therapy assistant. ''When you want to work with children or the elderly, they see that abuse charge and they're like: 'Whoa, no, thank you, ma'am. You're not going to work here.' ''
Ankrom said she had little expectation that her circumstances would change, though Alabama's Supreme Court will hear her case along with Kimbrough's. ''I'm not holding my breath on the Supreme Court overturning it,'' she said. ''I am guilty. I did smoke pot. I made bad decisions.'' She shrugged. ''It is how it is.''
Ankrom's lawyer, Carmen Howell, who represented her before the Court of Criminal Appeals (which upheld Ankrom's and Kimbrough's convictions this past summer), is pressing on with the appeal pro bono because, she said, the implications of the law are ''scary.'' She questioned what the arrest was really about if Ankrom could be prosecuted for drug use even though her child was unharmed.
''I think what you're looking at here is a failure to understand that addiction is a disease of the brain,'' says Dr. Barry Lester, the director of the Center for the Study of Children at Risk at Brown University. ''You are looking at people who think that these are horrible women who are rationally, willfully hurting their kids, but it's more complicated than that. Science has shown that addiction is a disease like any other mental illness, and absolutely treatable.''
Prosecutors often compare doing drugs while pregnant to driving while drunk. A crime has still been committed, they say, even when there is no harm done. Mitch Floyd, a passionate 42-year-old from Albertville -- part of an area known as Meth Mountain -- has prosecuted chemical-endangerment cases against new mothers more aggressively than anyone else. He is a patient, friendly man with light eyes who becomes deadly serious when he talks about babies.
Addiction is ''a very powerful force,'' he told me. ''However, there's a force that's more powerful than that to me, and that is a child is helpless, and God has put one person on this planet to be the last-line defense, to be the fiercest protector of that child, and that is its mother. My wife would literally claw someone's eyes out -- fight you to the death for our children. I mean, that's just what mothers are supposed to do. When that child's ultimate protector is the one causing the harm, what do you do?''
Over breakfast at a hotel restaurant in Florence, Ala., he shared photos of babies involved in some of his cases. Many looked healthy, although he said they were tiny and had all been exposed to drugs. One, born in February 2007, was shown in a neonatal-intensive-care unit with a man's wedding ring hanging around her wrist like a bangle. Another, born in August 2008, was dead and purple, his hands crossed over his chest.
''I meant to take that one out,'' he said.
Floyd says he is committed to drug-abuse prevention because, through his own work as an assistant district attorney and that of his wife, who works for the Department of Human Resources, he has seen firsthand the devastation of drugs on families. He visits local high schools and community groups to encourage teenagers to stay off meth, and insists the primary goal of these chemical-endangerment prosecutions is to keep more babies from being exposed to drugs. The mothers who are convicted, he says, are put in rehab and helped in the long run. ''It's a shame that babies need to be protected from their own mothers, but sometimes they do, and that's our job,'' Floyd said. ''It upsets me and offends me at the same time.
''People can argue with it,'' he added, referring to his chemical-endangerment prosecutions, ''but I think we've been very successful. We want folks to not reoffend, to get clean, to get reunited. I think that's the best-case scenario.''
No one would suggest that pregnant women should use drugs. But there are scientists who say that methamphetamines do not have a long-term impact on a developing fetus. Dr. Carl L. Hart, an associate professor of psychiatry and psychology at Columbia University and a research scientist at the New York State Psychiatric Institute, says that heavy alcohol use is potentially far more serious than a mother's use of opiates, cocaine or meth, because while these harder drugs may result in preterm labor or withdrawal symptoms that need to be managed, few babies experience long-term effects. Babies with fetal-alcohol syndrome, by contrast, are likely to have lifelong physical, mental and emotional issues, including significantly delayed brain development.
Furthermore, attributing a baby's medical condition to the presence of a single drug can be difficult, because many women who use illegal drugs have other risk factors at play during their pregnancies. ''Poor nutrition, smoking, drinking, homelessness, poverty. . . . How do you control for all that?'' Dr. Stephen Kandall, a neonatologist and the author of ''Substance and Shadow: Women and Addiction in the United States,'' told me.
Floyd's message, however, is clear and uncomplicated: drug use during pregnancy is dangerous and criminal. In January, he announced he would run for Marshall County district judge and campaigned in the Republican primary in part on his chemical-endangerment prosecutions. One ad featured a local obstetrician praising Floyd's work on behalf of the county's children, ''born and unborn.'' Floyd, the doctor says, ''makes sure these women are jailed and the babies are placed in a safe home.'' Another ad showed a woman named Whitney Holsonback holding her baby and smiling. ''Mitch Floyd made sure I went to jail,'' it read, ''but allowed me to go to drug treatment.'' With his help, she says in the ad, she was able to turn her life around. Now, she's off drugs, in nursing school and able to be a good mother to her son. ''Mitch was tough on me,'' she says, ''but he also cared about me; he encouraged me.''
On March 13, Floyd won in a landslide.
Laws concerning a pregnant woman's treatment of her fetus are not without precedent. Since abortion was legalized in 1973, hundreds of women across the country have been arrested for harming their fetuses, with charges ranging from child endangerment to first-degree murder.
Many of these prosecutions originate in laws initially designed to build in extra penalties when pregnant women are victims of a crime. Fetal-homicide laws, for example, which are on the books in 39 states, have often been passed in response to a brutal killing. Alabama's fetal-homicide law is known as the Brody Bill, named after the fetus who died in the 2005 murder of his mother, Brandy Parker. But treating women and their fetuses as separate persons under the law can have unexpected consequences. A woman in Indiana, Bei Bei Shuai, is now in prison for a suicide attempt that resulted in the death of her fetus. Three years ago in Mississippi, Rennie Gibbs had a stillbirth shortly after turning 16. When her baby tested positive for cocaine, she was charged with a ''depraved heart murder,'' the legal term for a killing with ''a callous disregard for human life,'' which in Mississippi carries a life sentence without possibility of parole until the age of 65. The Mississippi State Supreme Court, after initially agreeing to weigh in on the case, abruptly reconsidered, saying Gibbs should stand trial before it would rule on whether the law applies to pregnant women. Alabama's fetal-homicide law exempts pregnant women.
Measures that specifically define fetuses as persons have failed in every state in which they have been introduced (Colorado voters rejected fetal-personhood initiatives twice), but Mason, the founder of Personhood USA, told me that he isn't deterred. The goal, he said, is to raise awareness, much as gay marriage advocates, with whom he disagrees, have done with their campaigns. ''The more we raise the issue, the more we change the culture,'' he said. Troy Newman, president of the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue, agrees, in part, saying: ''Is it a winning strategy? Obviously not. They've spent millions of dollars in at least two different states running initiatives, and they've all failed miserably.'' On the other hand, laws like chemical endangerment, he says, could ultimately get the anti-abortion movement where it wants to go. ''Look,'' he says, ''we win every time we establish the precedent that the unborn child in the womb is a unique human individual.''
Mathew D. Staver, the founder and chairman of Liberty Counsel, who helped get fetal personhood on the ballot in Mississippi, recently filed an amicus brief with the State Supreme Court supporting the state's case against Ankrom. Staver told me by phone that ''it's clear that history has sided with the idea that life begins in the womb. The only aberration is Roe v. Wade. Abortion laws are an island unto themselves, and that island is gradually shrinking.''
But the expansion of fetal-homicide and chemical-endangerment laws have some people on the other side of the debate reaching for their copies of ''The Handmaid's Tale,'' Margaret Atwood's dystopian novel in which women are enslaved as childbearers.
''We're heading toward this Margaret Atwood-like society,'' Ketteringham says. ''The idea that the state needs to threaten and punish women so that they do the right thing during pregnancy is appalling. Everyone talks about the personhood of the fetus, but what's really at stake is the personhood of women. It starts with the use of an illegal drug, but what happens as a consequence of that precedent is that everything a woman does while she's pregnant becomes subject to state regulation.
''It starts with cocaine, and then it's cigarettes and alcohol. How much alcohol? And when? It's only a matter of time until it comes to refusing a bed-rest order because you need to work and take care of your other children and then you have a miscarriage. What if you stay at a job where you're exposed to toxic chemicals, as at a dry cleaner? What if you keep taking your S.S.R.I.'s during pregnancy? If a woman is told that sex during her pregnancy could be a risk to the fetus, and the woman has sex anyway and miscarries, are you going to prosecute the woman -- and the man too?''
''[The fetus] is another human being, just like we are,'' Scofield, the state senator, says. ''I look at the tens of millions of good mothers who make the right decisions. My mother, for instance, smoked forever. The day she found out she was pregnant with me, she put down her cigarettes for the last time. If we turn our back on this, we say to all these good mothers who have made good decisions that it's meaningless to society to be a good mother or a good father.''
Despite the mother-hen domesticity I witnessed, Amanda Kimbrough has not proved to be a model test-case defendant. Three months after I met her in Russellville, she was back in jail. Her appeal bond was revoked when she was charged with selling Oxycodone to a confidential informant. Timmy Sr. called the arrest a ''setup.'' David Henry Neal, the lawyer representing her on the new charge, said he would enter a not-guilty plea if there was an indictment. ''We just hope that the system will not try to get its pound of flesh over the death of the infant through the new drug charge,'' says Brian White, one of her lawyers in the chemical-endangerment case.
But an investigator in the Franklin County sheriff's office, who asked not to be named because he was not permitted to speak to the press, told me that his office had been monitoring Kimbrough for a long time: ''The important thing is the safety of the kids. She's not an innocent person if she's already in trouble and done that to her baby and she's still out selling dope.''
Her lawyers were clearly disappointed by the new arrest, but given their experience working with defendants, not entirely surprised. ''No case is ever easy,'' Ketteringham told me. ''People are complicated.'' Kimbrough's drug history, her lawyers acknowledge, may make it difficult to sympathize with her. But, they say, moral outrage need not be accompanied by legal punishment. ''Maybe human beings have not evolved enough to hold the complex idea that many things can be true at the same time,'' Paltrow of the National Advocates for Pregnant Women says. ''We can feel a certain way. We can value the unborn as a matter of religion, ethics or experience, but we can't do that as a matter of law and still value pregnant women.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timmy Kimbrough at home with his daughter Josie, 2, and his stepdaughters, Nicole, 13, and Brooke Borden, 10, left. His wife, shown in the framed photograph, is in jail. (MM30-MM31)
Birth Effects: Heather Capps, 25, and her 5-month-old son, Malice, at a halfway house in Albertville, Ala. She was arrested after her son tested positive for Oxycodone. (MM33)
 Hard Time: Chemical endangerment of a child, in the case of death, is a Class A felony in Alabama, carrying a mandatory sentence of 10 years to life. (PHOTOGRAPHS By LYNSEY ADDARIO) (MM34-MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SENTENCING (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); METHAMPHETAMINE (87%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); FAMILY (76%); PARENTING (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); PARENTING SUPPORT (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); CHILD ABUSE (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); JURY TRIALS (73%); VERDICTS (73%); BAIL (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); TEXTILES (71%); CHILD POVERTY (69%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); FELONIES (68%); ARRESTS (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); APPEALS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1033 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2272 words

HEADLINE: A Humbled Gap Tries a Fresh Coat of Pep

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
THIS can'tbe a Gap: the mannequins look kind of happy.
And the paint looks fresh, the fixtures intact. Over here are pink and yellow jeans for women; over there, bright spring-fresh scarves. Upstairs is some cool-looking men's denim. And, throughout, natural light chases away the usual drab florescence.
Yet this is a Gap -- at the Grove, an upscale mall in Los Angeles. Only it's more than a Gap -- it's a laboratory for reviving the brand, one of the great hot-to-not stories of American retailing.
After defining 1990s khaki culture, Gap fell hard in the early 2000s. Management missteps, executive turnover and, not least, unappealing fashion punished sales. It was a remarkable comedown for a chain that once seemed to dictate how America dressed. 
The chief executive of Gap Inc., Glenn Murphy, has tried to satisfy Wall Street by cutting costs and closing stores. But sales last year were about where they were in 2002, despite big pushes overseas and online. (While Gap is the marquee brand, the company also owns Old Navy, Banana Republic,Piperlime and Athleta.)
What went wrong? Dozens of interviews with current and former executives depict a company that chased after rivals, rather than charting its own course, and that cut quality and lost touch with customers. Simply put, it filled its stores with stuff that people didn't want.
Which is why what's happening at the Grove is so crucial. On a Tuesday in March, Art Peck, the president of Gap North America, surveyed the scene and liked what he saw. ''If you drop someone in here and say, 'What store are you in?,' nobody would say the stereotypical Gap store,'' Mr. Peck said.
That, he implied, is a good thing. Mr. Peck wants to update Gap's more than 1,000 North American stores.
At the Grove, Gap is testing ways to build sales. The cheerier surroundings are a start. It's also trying dressing rooms in the center of the store, and an on-site stylist. Other Gap stores are being spruced up, too, and, as Mr. Peck put it, Gap is ''making sure our body forms all have the appropriate number of limbs attached to them.''
The new clothes reflect Gap's upbeat, ''Be Bright'' advertising campaign. And as those products hit the stores, Gap is getting a bit of good news. In February and March, same-store sales shot past analysts' expectations. The share price of Gap Inc., the parent company, is clawing its way back, too. It had plummeted from $53 in February 2000, when Gap's dot-com-era khaki was burying its rivals' more formal business wear, to $9.50 in November 2008, at the height of the financial panic. On Friday, it closed at $28.53, up nearly 54 percent so far this year. ''We really believe we have a diamond, and we just need it to be polished properly,'' Mr. Murphy says.
IT'S hard to overstate Gap's place in American retailing.
When Doris and Don Fisher founded the company in 1969 in San Francisco, they basically invented the specialty apparel store. Gap sold Levi's in a bunch of sizes, aimed at the generation gap -- hence the name.
When Millard S. Drexler arrived as chief executive in the '80s, Gap began selling its own clothes. Gap Inc. expanded Banana Republic, started Old Navy, and went on to dominate American clothing retailing for almost two decades. But by 2002, breakneck expansion caught up with it. The company was close to bankruptcy, and Paul Pressler, a Disney executive, was brought in as C.E.O.
Yet by then, rivals like Zara and Juicy Couture were challenging Gap's all-things-to-all-people approach. In 2007, Mr. Pressler stepped down and, according to someone familiar with the matter, a board representative reached out to Mr. Drexler, who by then was running J. Crew. Would he return if Gap bought J. Crew? he was asked. Nothing came of it.
Bill Chandler, a Gap spokesman, says that if this happened, it did not represent the board's point of view.
Gap's board would choose Mr. Murphy, formerly the head of Shoppers Drug Mart in Canada, as the new chief.
Worn down, Gap executives waited to hear the new boss's plan.
''It wasn't like he came in and was like, 'It's all about beautiful product and the right marketing' -- there was none of that,'' recalls Will Hunsinger, former general manager of Gap's online unit. ''It was, 'We've got to learn how to work more efficiently.' ''
Mr. Murphy set about cutting costs, closing stores and pushing international growth. And on some fronts, the strategy showed results. Gap is growing fast in China and elsewhere, and Gap Inc. is still making money: profit was $1.1 billion in 2009, $1.2 billion in 2010, and $833 million in 2011, in the same range as in the middle of the last decade.
But he largely left the fashion side of Gap alone. When clothes didn't sell, he focused on market-share strategies rather than on trying to rethink what Gap was about. Some executives found this approach lacking.
''He brought classic grocery retail principles, which is good, but it's a little easier doing that with toothpaste,'' says a former inventory executive who, like many former executives interviewed, spoke on condition of anonymity since they weren't authorized by Gap to comment publicly about their time there.
Mr. Chandler, the Gap spokesman, said that ''it is not part of Glenn's role to lay out the creative vision -- the brand leaders are responsible for this with their creative teams, which Glenn supports and encourages.''
GAP seemed to lurch from one new thing to the next. Mr. Murphy noticed momentum at the trendier Express chain, and at one point encouraged Gap executives to watch what Express was doing. Marka Hansen, then Gap's brand president, and Patrick Robinson, its chief designer at the time, decided to go after Express and Macy's.
''The next product review meeting looked like we'd just walked out of a nightclub,'' with sparkle and glitter, one former Gap executive recalled. (Mr. Robinson declined to comment for this article. Ms. Hansen did not respond to requests for comment.)
That didn't sell, so Gap shifted again. Another former Gap executive recalled how, one season, executives were asked to focus on women's career wear, only to be told the next season to get back to Gap's core, denim. ''Then it's, 'Don't focus on the denim business; focus on tops,' '' another former executive said.
The stylish Mr. Robinson had previously designed for brands like Paco Rabanne and Perry Ellis, and is a friend of Anna Wintour of Vogue. But his designs seemed lost on Gap customers. One former senior executive recalled seeing a preview of the 2009 holiday collection: it was in spring colors, not traditional holiday ones. Mr. Robinson and the designers were urged to add in festive winter colors, but did not. In the end, Gap rushed in some holiday plaids, so it had something wintry to feature.
Gap also chased too hard the few product lines that did sell. In 2009, it successfully reintroduced the 1969 brand as a higher-end denim line. But when Gap came out with new black pants for women in 2010, it offered them in seven cuts and three lengths and, though they were called ''Black Magic,'' in the colors of black, navy and gray.
Things came to a head as the designers worked on the 2011 season. Mr. Robinson complained that merchants, who ordered and adjusted the products, were ruining his vision. So Mr. Murphy gave him full control.
''Merchants were literally told, 'You don't get to change the product as it's presented,' '' one former merchant recalled. ''Usually, you want to bring financial history, a consumer focus, make sure you do have a white button-down.''
The clothes that arrived were in drab grays, peaches and roses. Rivals were offering bright solids that season. Gap's sales kept sinking.
Another worry was quality. Mr. Murphy told investors he would reduce costs, but while that helped Gap's profits, it hurt its clothes. ''Finishes, washes, all the things that gave a garment more character -- trims, sweater yarns,'' were all switched to lower-cost options, a former Gap designer says. ''If there were six things you used to do on a T-shirt, you'd do three or two.''
Cost pressures didn't lessen as the economy improved. In 2011, Gap's costs shot up 20 percent amid near-record prices for cotton, and it substituted some cheaper fabrics. ''We were worried about the quality,'' says the former inventory executive, but there was pressure to meet profit expectations.
Mr. Murphy says that while cotton prices led Gap to make some ''responsible tradeoffs,'' he disagrees that quality declined earlier, saying that there are many ways to measure quality.
As same-store sales declined, Mr. Murphy concentrated on promotions to drive foot traffic. The creative department began calling itself ''the sign shop'' because it was printing so many sale posters. It started funneling the $500,000 to $700,000 earmarked for six weeks of window displays to printing and overnighting giant sale signs, according to a former executive.
''We couldn't print 40-off, 50-off, 60-off fast enough,'' this executive says.
Gap challenges that. ''The poor product acceptance resulted in additional discounting,'' Mr. Chandler says. ''There was not a material move of funding from windows to store signage.''
Money was also a problem in terms of stores. Mr. Murphy was shutting down unprofitable stores as leases expired, part of a strategy to cut store count for Gap North America, including outlets, by about a quarter over seven years. But the company took a piecemeal approach to those that remained -- for instance, at top-performing stores, repainting the first several feet and adding hangers and fixtures, but leaving the back of the stores alone.
''The stores weren't as organized as they could have been, they weren't as clean as they could have been -- sometimes it was sheer fundamentals. They looked like they had been somewhat ignored,'' John Ermatinger, who ran Gap's business in China and Japan until last year, says of the United States stores. ''There was no romance.''
In fall 2010, Ms. Hansen introduced a new Gap logo. Within a week, Gap reverted to the old one after customers complained.
By 2011, Gap stores were filled with doleful clothes being sold at huge markdowns. In a major management shakeup, five executives departed. Mr. Murphy replaced Ms. Hansen with Mr. Peck, who had run Gap's outlets; Mr. Robinson left three months later. Gap's longtime ad agency was also replaced.
Same-store sales for Gap North America fell 8 percent in 2008 and 7 percent in 2009. After staying about flat in 2010, they dropped 4 percent in 2011. (Banana Republic and Old Navy have faced sales declines, too, though Gap's have been more pronounced.)
Asked if he had waited too long to move, Mr. Murphy says he did not.
''It's in the company's and my best interest to allow the creative team to do what they think is right,'' he says.
MR. MURPHY likes executives to build a case for investment before he sends money their way. In 2012, he is letting Gap make its case.
''Glenn's strategy is, 'I want to feed investments to the lines of business that are winning,' '' says Toby Lenk, head of Gap's online operations. He says Mr. Murphy supported his division's $150 million addition of Athleta and introduction of the accessories site Piperlime, because of the online unit's fast growth.
As part of the changes last year, Mr. Murphy named Pam Wallack, known for her work at Gap Kids and Baby, to head a global creative center, overseeing design, production and marketing.
''I've never felt the brand has ever been starved,'' Mr. Murphy says. ''I just think we've taken our money and we've tried to be balanced about where we put our capital around the world, and in different brands. But it's never been at the expense of Gap brand.''
He adds: ''We know that Gap brand is critical to the future of the company.''
The Gap has been without a head designer since Mr. Robinson's departure. But recent moves seem to be spurring sales. The clothes are bright and fabrics better. (Mr. Peck mandates a minimum weight for T-shirts and knits.) And Gap has added production flexibility so it can chase trends it initially missed -- for instance, it just rushed in floral-printed jeans for women. Gap's domestic division increased same-store sales by 1 percent in February and 9 percent in March. Margins improved, too.
Mr. Murphy has put Gap's designers, marketers and production functions under Ms. Wallack's supervision in New York. Overseas teams, which used to come up with most of their own products, now mostly pick from a central inventory, says Stephen Sunnucks, the head of Gap International.
Ms. Wallack says Gap is emphasizing color and denim, khakis and knits. ''We had to restate what Gap was about,'' she says.
On a hot spring day at a Gap office in Manhattan, she reviewed 2012 holiday clothing before Gap placed production orders. The room, set up to resemble a Gap store, had snowflakes and white-neon Christmas trees in windows. Mannequins wore winter gear, like an updated cable-knit sweater with a slouchy fit. The rest of the collection was red, navy and camel -- peppy and preppy.
It looked like something that had been missing for a long time: it looked like the Gap.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Part of the new design in the Gap store at the Grove, a mall in Los Angeles. Executives hope that the cheerier surroundings, among other changes, will bolster sales.(BU1)
At the Grove, Gap uses what look like window designs throughout its store.
At a Gap denim studio in a downtown Los Angeles warehouse, Rosella Giuliani, at left, the creative director for the 1969 brand, worked on new offerings with Nicole King-Burroughs, women's design director.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Gap executives Pam Wallack, Stephen Sunnucks and Art Peck in a Manhattan store at Fifth Avenue and 17th Street. ''We had to restate what Gap was about,'' says Ms. Wallack, who leads Gap's global creative center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (76%); SAME STORE SALES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: GAP INC (94%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%)

PERSON: GLENN MURPHY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1034 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Turning Unused Acres Green

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
THE city of New York owns thousands of slivers of unused land, and about a year ago, a group of Brooklyn gardeners had an idea: identify all the vacant lots in the borough, then help neighborhood residents take them over. They built an online map, then a mobile app, with information about the plots, including the names and phone numbers of the agencies that owned them. They called themselves 596 Acres, after the total area of unused public land in Brooklyn, according to city data.
On a recent Saturday, Paula Z. Segal, 34, a founder of the group, loaded up a bicycle trailer with handwritten wooden signs and set off for points on her interactive map, starting with 406 Nostrand Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, a narrow ribbon that belongs to the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. Passersby stopped to watch Ms. Segal and a fellow volunteer, Eric Brelsford, hang signs on the chain-link fence.
''This lot is public land,'' read one of the signs. ''It's very likely that they would let you and your neighbors do something nice here -- maybe a farm or an outdoor movie theater.'' When a woman pushing a shopping cart said she might call the agency's phone number, Ms. Segal gently steered her in another direction. 
''Calling the number is an O.K. place to start,'' she said. ''It's better to talk to your neighbors and see what they want to do here.''
Ms. Segal has a history of contesting the lines between public and private space. In 2005, she and two friends docked an abandoned Navy rescue boat in the Gowanus Canal, converting the 63-foot ship into an open space for art, politics and hanging out. Amid complaints from neighbors, they were eventually evicted -- in part, Ms. Segal said, because of an article in The New York Times. Earlier this year, as a law clerk at the firm Rankin & Taylor, she helped lead a successful campaign to reopen Zuccotti Park, which city officials had fenced off after evicting the Occupy Wall Street protesters. Afterward, she told The Village Voice, ''I work to take fences down,'' adding, ''That's mostly what I do.''
Born Paula Zaslavsky, she adopted the surname Segal in 2008, from her maternal grandfather, the only member of his family to survive the Holocaust and the last to carry the Segal name, she said.
The idea for 596 Acres grew out of a long and still ongoing effort to convert a city-owned site in Clinton Hill into a park. In the course of organizing, Ms. Segal became interested in a city database of publicly owned vacant properties, which she felt could be useful for community groups. The raw data showed close to 2,000 lots in Brooklyn. Working with researchers at the Center for the Study of Brooklyn at Brooklyn College, Ms. Segal and her colleagues first eliminated lots that already had community gardens or plans for use, and parcels that were inaccessible from the street. They came up with a map of 1,044 properties, covering about 250 to 300 acres, mostly in low-income areas with little green space, said Mr. Brelsford, 29, a freelance computer programmer. With a $324 grant from the online fund-raising platform In Our Back Yard, which works like Kickstarter for green projects, they printed 1,000 maps and began handing them out or posting them on vacant lots. They put the map online last August. E-mail messages started to come in, hundreds of them, from people who said they wanted to help or be helped.
Tami Johnson had been trying for two years to create a community garden near her home in Gowanus when she came across 596 Acres.
''My whole neighborhood is totally full of holes,'' said Ms. Johnson, 37, who tests video games and plays drums in several bands. ''Developers came in, the economy crashed, projects stopped, and they left holes all over the neighborhood. And there are all these other lots that are trash pits.''
Ms. Johnson had tried to convert two lots, but had been unsuccessful. Through the 596 Acres Web site, she found a lot on Bergen Street, and the name of another gardener, Tom Hallaran, who was also interested in converting part of it to grow produce. Mr. Hallaran, in turn, had been attracted to the lot -- long a neighborhood eyesore -- by a sign posted by Ms. Segal on the fence around it. Last summer, Ms. Johnson began lobbying city agencies for the land, this time with better results. By March, volunteers had cleared off 30 to 40 trash bags of debris.
On a cold Tuesday afternoon earlier this month, Mr. Hallaran and three other volunteers tended to tomato seedlings at what they are now calling Feedback Farms, which shares the Bergen Street lot with a traditional community garden and the Textile Arts Center, which grows plants for botanical textile dyes.
Feedback Farms is an experiment in movable urban gardening. Because the soil was considered contaminated, all the gardening is done in containers. And to get the land, Ms. Johnson stressed that the garden was temporary, and the city or a private owner could reclaim it at any time. So Mr. Hallaran, working with other volunteers, designed a vegetable garden that could be moved on short notice, using forklift pallets. In Our Back Yard provided a grant of $4,484 for the garden.
Mr. Hallaran's online biography cites his work ''in bioinformatics at the Washington University Genome sequencing Center, at a collective bakery, a biofuels production plant, and in online advertising,'' as well as his interest in gardening. The gardeners are experimenting with planters that are irrigated from below, and equipped with electronic sensors that monitor their moisture levels and relay the information to a server nearby.
Testing two soils and two types of planters, they expect to grow between 1,200 and 1,900 pounds of produce this season -- mainly tomatoes, Shishito peppers, lettuce, kale and bok choy -- which they plan to sell to pay for the garden, said Clare Sullivan, 32, an environment coordinator at the Earth Institute at Columbia University (she is also married to Mr. Hallaran). The goal is to replicate the most effective combinations on other lots around the city, she said. ''We want a test case where we show we can use the land and leave,'' she added.
Letitia James, a Brooklyn city councilwoman who has worked with 596 Acres, said that city agencies were wary of community gardens becoming permanent institutions, difficult to displace, as happened in the East Village. And often, agencies face competing requests from groups that want affordable housing on empty lots.
''They're afraid of the Occupy Wall Street mentality, that the gardens are going to inherit legal rights, squatters' rights,'' Ms. James said. ''596 Acres has made a huge difference, because it organizes people. But getting the city to embrace the concept has been challenging. They move at a glacial speed.''
Beatriz De La Torre, an assistant commissioner of planning for the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said that the agency recognized that gardens were a benefit to a community, but that its mandate was to build affordable housing. The agency owns 673 unused lots in Brooklyn, of which some are inaccessible or committed for use, and has made 141 more available to gardeners, either temporarily or permanently.
''We take everything on a case-by-case basis,'' she said.
For 596 Acres, the progress has been slow. So far three gardens have been started, covering just 0.233 acres. On a recent volunteer day, no volunteers showed up to help Ms. Segal and her colleagues hang signs.
But earlier this month the group won a $4,000 award as the best green app from the city's Big Apps contest, and a $1,000 grant from a group called the Awesome Foundation for the Arts and Sciences to expand its map citywide.
In the meantime, would-be farmers are eager to get at some land, however far from bucolic. At a scarred lot in the shadow of the Long Island Rail Road in Bushwick, Ms. Segal hung a sign on the fence, hoping to attract volunteers for a group called Brooklyn Permaculture, which has applied for use of the site. The group has ambitious plans for what it calls a food forest, with trees and chicken coops to feed 50 families, said Frank Addeo, 31, who works at a health food store. He said Ms. Segal had helped him contact other groups to learn about how they have navigated city agencies.
He remained guarded. ''I'm hoping H.P.D. will follow through, but I've been disappointed in the past,'' he said. ''At this point, we haven't received a clear answer.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 06, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions last Sunday about a group of Brooklyn gardeners who identify vacant lots in the borough and help neighborhood residents take them over misstated the number of unused lots in Brooklyn controlled by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development that it has made available to gardeners. Of the department's 673 lots, 20 are being used for temporary gardens, and it has also transferred 39 other lots to the Parks Department as more permanent gardens; it has not made 141 lots available, either temporarily or permanently.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VACANCY: A workshop in Williamsburg on taking over empty lots. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
PEACEFUL TAKEOVER: In Gowanus, a group from Feedback Farms, above, works on planters to grow vegetables. Paula Z. Segal, right, is a founder of 596 Acres, which is helping residents take over vacant lots. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); CITIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); FILM (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (63%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (60%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1035 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Dealing With Student Debt

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
FOR many recent college graduates, the dream of owning a home may have to be postponed awhile as they first grapple with repaying mounds of education loans.
Outstanding student loan debt now totals over $1 trillion, according to a report last month from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. That surpasses the amount owned on all credit cards in the United States.
Student debt has become an issue in the presidential race, with both President Obama and Mitt Romney, the presumed Republican nominee, supporting efforts to extend loan subsidies set to expire in July. 
Last year alone, students took out $117 billion just in federal loans. And it's no wonder: According to the College Board, the average annual cost of out-of-state tuition, room and board at a public institution is $29,657; at a private nonprofit, it is $38,589.
''Some student loan payments are as high as a mortgage,'' said Cari Sweet-Kostoplis, an assistant vice president of the Jersey Mortgage Corporation in Parsippany. She noted that one client who had monthly loan payments totaling $2,800 opted to work as a prison psychologist to qualify for a federal student loan forgiveness program offered to those who undertake community service work after graduation.
Ms. Sweet-Kostoplis and other industry experts say that many first-time buyers get turned down for mortgages because their student loan debt significantly raises their overall debt level. Most lenders follow underwriting guidelines that limit total debt payments -- for the mortgage and property taxes, plus credit cards, student loans, car loans and other debts -- to 45 to 50 percent of a borrower's adjusted gross income.
Assuming the mortgage and taxes will eat up 33 to 35 percent, that means student loan payments, plus credit card bills, can account for no more than 10 percent or so of gross income, Ms. Sweet-Kostoplis said. That equals $833 a month for someone who makes $100,000 a year.
To lower monthly loan payments, borrowers can restructure or consolidate student loans. Mark Kantrowitz, the founder of FinAid.org, which offers advice on student loans and scholarships, says some students choose to extend the length of the loans.
Loan consolidations may be done through the student loan provider Sallie Mae, and could net an interest rate as low as 3 percent and a term of up to 25 years, said David Boone, a first vice president of Provident Bank in Jersey City, N.J.
Before embarking on a home search, Mr. Boone recommends aggressively paying off student loan debt and refraining from taking on any more big debts, like buying a car. Borrowers should also make sure that their student loan payments are made in a timely manner. A loan would be declared delinquent if payments were 30 days or more late, said Heather Jarvis, a lawyer in Wilmington, N.C., who offers student debt training as well as advice for high-debt individuals.
Ms. Jarvis, who graduated from law school with $125,000 in student debt, also notes that there is no statute of limitations on collection for past-due student loan payments, and says she even knows of people who have had their Social Security checks garnished to repay them.
Conversely, she added, repaying student loans on time and in full would also help improve a borrower's credit score.
Another way to lower student debt is to get the borrower's family involved, though this comes with risks.
For example, Mr. Kantrowitz said, parents or grandparents could agree to take out a home equity loan and use the proceeds to pay off the student loan balances. The borrower would then repay the home equity loan, either to the parent or directly to the lender. Home equity loans usually have lower interest rates than student loans because the debt is secured, he said, adding that if the rate was at least two percentage points below the student loan rate, it could be worthwhile making the switch.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 06, 2012

 CORRECTION:
The Mortgages column last Sunday, about qualifying for a mortgage while still paying back student debt, misstated the policy of Sallie Mae, a student loan provider, on consolidation loans. It offers private loans to current college students who need to supplement federal financial aid, but it does not offer consolidation loans.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (94%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

COMPANY: SLM CORP (51%); PROVIDENT FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (58%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (56%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (51%); PFS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); MITT ROMNEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, NC, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1036 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Recall Election Tests Strategies For November

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
GREEN BAY, Wis. -- ''Recall Walker'' bumper stickers dotted the workers' parking lot at the Georgia Pacific paper mill on Day Street here one recent afternoon, proof of their union's role in the effort to oust Gov. Scott Walker from office early for his legislation limiting public employees' bargaining rights.
But among the largest donors to Mr. Walker and his cause are the plant's owners, the billionaire industrialists Charles G. and David H. Koch, the latter of whom has said of the recall election to be held in June, ''If the unions win the recall, there will be no stopping union power.''
The recall vote here has been billed as a critical test of labor muscle versus corporate money. But it is only a warm-up for a confrontation that will play out during the presidential election, which both sides view as the biggest political showdown in at least 30 years between pro- and anti-union forces -- a labor-management fight writ large. 
The same national groups flooding the streets and the airwaves in Wisconsin -- the Koch-supported group Americans for Prosperity on the right, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., teachers unions and the United Steelworkers on the left -- are emerging as important outside supporters of President Obama and Mitt Romney, each side empowered by the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision.
That ruling is not only giving wealthy donors like the Kochs greater options for pouring tens of millions of dollars into the presidential election. It is also giving unions -- many of them representing workers in some of the major donors' own factories -- the ability for the first time ever to spend money from union treasuries for campaigning among nonunion voters.
The combination of the squeeze on state budgets, high rates of unemployment and the conservative movement's revived energy provided an opening for Republican efforts, often business-backed, to promote tough-on-labor legislation in key states. Those efforts have succeeded in rolling back gains made by unions over decades, prompting vows from labor to fight back with newly engaged members shaken from self-described complacency.
''The steelworkers will be working harder this year than in 2008, because we can see what can happen,'' Michael Bolton, the director of the United Steelworkers unit representing 48,000 workers in Wisconsin and Michigan -- including many hundreds in Koch facilities -- said in an interview last week at his office in Menasha, Wis.
The steelworkers will be part of a broader effort that national union strategists say will fill the streets in battleground states with hundreds of thousands of their members, who will go door to door telling union colleagues -- and, for the first time, nonunion households -- why they should vote for Mr. Obama. The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s political director, Mike Podhorzer, said his organization, which reached 25 million voters in 2008, would easily exceed that this year.
Officials for the steelworkers say it has been awkward at times to wage partisan battles against the family that owns the factories that employ them.
The union's leaders recently agreed on a contract with Georgia Pacific that they considered fair. When liberal groups called for a boycott of Koch products late last year, a Steelworkers vice president, Jon Geenen, said it would harm ''the wrong people,'' writing of a ''dilemma and a paradox,'' namely, ''While the Koch brothers are credited with advocating an agenda and groups that are clearly hostile to labor and labor's agenda, the brothers' company in practice and in general has positive and productive collective bargaining relationships with its unions.''
But, Mr. Bolton said, that has not stopped the union from telling workers at those companies what it believes to be the goal of the Kochs and their allies. ''They want ineffective, weak unions,'' he said, adding, ''A lot of these bills didn't directly affect our private sector members, but we realize that we would be the next.''
In an interview, Mr. Walker called that a ''bogus argument,'' saying he has no plans to pursue right-to-work legislation, as private sector unions have feared. Such legislation lets employees at unionized workplaces opt out of paying union fees.
''Private sector unions are my partners,'' he said. Mr. Walker said that in restricting collective bargaining rights for government workers, save those in public safety, he was confronting a reality facing virtually all state governments with aging, unionized work forces: ''We can't sustain our budgets unless we make some reasonable changes.''
Mr. Walker said charges that he is doing the bidding of wealthy supporters like the Kochs are ''the biggest joke out there.''
''My reason for this came from eight years of being a county executive,'' he said, explaining that, as such, he had to struggle with public sector unions when he sought to balance his budgets.
But Mr. Koch's comments, made to The Palm Beach Post in February, that he viewed support of Mr. Walker as part of an effort to check ''union power,'' have become a rallying point for unions.
The Kochs did not respond to interview requests. Koch Industries says on its Web site: ''We think the best workplace relationships are fostered when the employer works directly with its employees. It is a mischaracterization of our principles to say this means we oppose unions or want to dismantle all unions.''
Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, a branch of which has spent at least $700,000 supporting Mr. Walker in the recall, said the group's Wisconsin members, not Mr. Koch, were the force behind Mr. Walker's support.
Portraying public employees' unions as standing in the way of the ''general spending reform and smaller government that we support,'' he said there was also a political imperative to confront labor's traditional political might.
So his group has expanded beyond its role as a political advertiser to become a hub for conservative activism, holding rallies and conferences across the country to build volunteer armies in battleground states.
''If we're ever going to win public policy battles at the federal, state or local level,'' he said, ''we have got to build a grass-roots infrastructure that can match what they do on the ground in these states.''
Americans for Prosperity has pushed its agenda alongside several other conservative groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Crossroads GPS and the American Legislative Exchange Council.
Union officials say this push caught them unaware when it helped elect conservative lawmakers throughout the country in 2010, many of whom then pursued tough labor legislation.
However, labor leaders say the moves have reinvigorated members, prompting a beefing up of political operations. This contributed to the repeal, in a referendum last year, of an Ohio law limiting bargaining rights, has fueled the recall effort in Wisconsin, and, unions hope, will lead to Democratic success in November.
Nearly all of the larger confrontations have taken place in presidential battlegrounds, not only Wisconsin and Ohio, but also states like Florida, Michigan and New Hampshire.
''These state fights are a jump-start to get people engaged,'' said Brandon Davis, political director for the Service Employees International Union. ''We're confident that if we get turnout to vote in municipal elections, they will also vote our way in national elections.''
Bob Kelley, a retired union carpenter, agreed as he hammered together a partition for a new call center in Madison. ''If you're where somebody throws down a gauntlet and attacks, what are you going to do?'' he said, referring to Mr. Walker. ''Maybe he did us a favor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a phone bank in Madison, Wis., ahead of a recall vote. Unions seek to remove the governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Michael Bolton, left, of the United Steelworkers, and Charles G. Koch, the billionaire industrialist, are key players in the face-off. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MIKE BURLEY/TOPEKA CAPITAL-JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); PAPER MILLS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

COMPANY: GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (93%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (93%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (93%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (93%)

PERSON: CHARLES KOCH (79%); SCOTT WALKER (79%); MITT ROMNEY (77%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (74%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1037 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2853 words

HEADLINE: Earth to Ben Bernanke

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
This article has been adapted from ''End This Depression Now!'' by Paul Krugman, to be published by W. W. Norton & Company this month.

 BODY:
When the financial crisis struck in 2008, many economists took comfort in at least one aspect of the situation: the best possible person, Ben Bernanke, was in place as chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Bernanke was and is a fine economist. More than that, before joining the Fed, he wrote extensively, in academic studies of both the Great Depression and modern Japan, about the exact problems he would confront at the end of 2008. He argued forcefully for an aggressive response, castigating the Bank of Japan, the Fed's counterpart, for its passivity. Presumably, the Fed under his leadership would be different.
Instead, while the Fed went to great lengths to rescue the financial system, it has done far less to rescue workers. The U.S. economy remains deeply depressed, with long-term unemployment in particular still disastrously high, a point Bernanke himself has recently emphasized. Yet the Fed isn't taking strong action to rectify the situation. 
The Bernanke Conundrum -- the divergence between what Professor Bernanke advocated and what Chairman Bernanke has actually done -- can be reconciled in a few possible ways. Maybe Professor Bernanke was wrong, and there's nothing more a policy maker in this situation can do. Maybe politics are the impediment, and Chairman Bernanke has been forced to hide his inner professor. Or maybe the onetime academic has been assimilated by the Fed Borg and turned into a conventional central banker. Whichever account you prefer, however, the fact is that the Fed isn't doing the job many economists expected it to do, and a result is mass suffering for American workers.
What the Fed Can Do
The Federal Reserve has a dual mandate: price stability and maximum employment. It normally tries to meet these goals by moving short-term interest rates, which it can do by adding to or subtracting from bank reserves. If the economy is weak and inflation is low, the Fed cuts rates; this makes borrowing attractive, stimulates private spending and, if all goes well, leads to economic recovery. If the economy is strong and inflation is a threat, the Fed raises rates; this discourages borrowing and spending, and the economy cools off.
Right now, the Fed believes that it's facing a weak economy and subdued inflation, a situation in which it would ordinarily cut interest rates. The problem is that rates can't be cut further. When the recession began in 2007, the Fed started slashing short-term interest rates until November 2008, when they bottomed out near zero, where they remain to this day. And that was as far as the Fed could go, because (some narrow technical exceptions aside) interest rates can't go lower. Investors won't buy bonds if they can get a better return simply by putting a bunch of $100 bills in a safe. In other words, the Fed hit what's known in economic jargon as the zero lower bound (or, alternatively, became stuck in a liquidity trap). The tool the Fed usually fights recessions with had reached the limits of its usefulness.
That doesn't mean the Fed was out of options. Not according to the work of a number of economists, anyway, among them a prominent Princeton professor by the name of Ben Bernanke. As noted above, Bernanke was among the economists who took notice, back in the 1990s, of the troubles afflicting Japan -- a huge real estate bubble that left behind a legacy of high private-sector debt when it burst and a central bank up against the zero lower bound.
The woes confronting the United States today aren't identical to those faced by Japan. For one thing, Japanese inflation wasn't just low; by the end of the 1990s, Japan was actually suffering chronic deflation. For another, Japan's slump was never as terrible as ours; unemployment, in particular, never became the scourge it has become here. Still, Japan provided an example of how an advanced modern economy could seemingly be caught in an economic trap.
In a hard-hitting 2000 paper titled ''Japanese Monetary Policy: A Case of Self-Induced Paralysis?'' Bernanke declared that ''far from being powerless, the Bank of Japan could achieve a great deal if it were willing to abandon its excessive caution and its defensive response to criticism.'' He proceeded to lay out a number of actions the Bank of Japan could take. And he called on Japanese policy makers to act like F.D.R. and do whatever it took: ''Japan is not in a Great Depression by any means, but its economy has operated below potential for nearly a decade. Nor is it by any means clear that recovery is imminent. Policy options exist that could greatly reduce these losses. Why isn't more happening? To this outsider, at least, Japanese monetary policy seems paralyzed, with a paralysis that is largely self-induced. Most striking is the apparent unwillingness of the monetary authorities to experiment, to try anything that isn't absolutely guaranteed to work. Perhaps it's time for some Rooseveltian resolve in Japan.''
Bernanke had some specific proposals that could serve as advice for the Fed today. One set of options would have it take a larger role in financial markets. Short-term interest rates may be zero, unable to go lower, but longer-term rates aren't. So the Fed, which typically buys only short-term U.S. government debt, could expand its portfolio, buying long-term government debt, bonds backed by home mortgages and so on, in an effort to drive down the interest rates on these assets. This is the strategy that has come to be known, unhelpfully, as quantitative easing.
Another set of options involves trying to change expectations about future Fed policy. Right now, investors believe that the economy will eventually recover enough for the Fed to start raising rates again. Such expectations about future Fed plans, in turn, can have an important impact on the economy right now. In particular, beliefs about how long the Fed will wait before raising rates can have a major impact on expectations of future inflation. At the moment, investors assume that the Fed will raise rates enough to keep inflation from rising much above 2 percent. If the Fed were to raise its target for inflation -- and if investors believed in the new target -- expected inflation over the medium term, say the next 10 years, would be higher. Many economists, ranging from the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund to one of Mitt Romney's top economic advisers, have argued, as I have, that higher expected inflation would aid an economy up against the zero lower bound, because it would help persuade investors and businesses alike that sitting on cash is a bad idea. Bernanke endorsed the idea in his ''Paralysis'' paper, suggesting that the Bank of Japan declare ''a target in the 3-to-4-percent range for inflation, to be maintained for a number of years.''
So which of these steps has the Fed taken lately? Well, it has bought more than $2 trillion worth of long-term government debt and bonds of government-backed housing agencies. That sounds like a lot, but it's much less than most analysts think necessary to jump-start economic recovery. The Fed has also tried to influence market expectations about future policy, but only for the fairly near term, declaring that it doesn't expect to raise short-term rates until late 2014. What's more, Bernanke has ruled out more ambitious policies. In 2010, for example, he dismissed the notion of a higher inflation target for the United States, arguing that it would undermine confidence and the Fed's ''hard-won inflation credibility.''
In short, Chairman Bernanke's Fed has been much more passive than Professor Bernanke's writings would have led us to expect.
Can the Fed Do No More?
Some economists and Fed officials believe that the Fed has already done all it can or should -- that, in particular, high unemployment is structural, that it can't be brought down simply by getting people to increase spending. They also warn that any further efforts by the Fed to boost the economy would simply drive up inflation instead. This is, however, a minority view both among economists and at the Fed.
Most stories about structural unemployment stress a perceived mismatch between the work force and employment opportunities: workers, so the story goes, either have the wrong skills or are in the wrong place. But as Bernanke pointed out in a recent speech, employment looks bad across the board: ''The fact that labor demand appears weak in most industries and locations is suggestive of a general shortfall of aggregate demand rather than a worsening mismatch of skills and jobs.'' As a result, he declared, the data ''do not support the view that structural factors are a major cause of the increase in unemployment during the most recent recession.''
What about inflation? So-called headline inflation, a k a the Consumer Price Index, has fluctuated wildly -- deflation during the worst of the recession, annualized inflation hitting a peak of almost 4 percent last September. These big swings are, however, driven mainly by fluctuations in the prices of raw materials, which Fed officials consider poor indicators of underlying inflationary pressures. They prefer, instead, to focus on measures like core inflation, which excludes volatile energy and food prices and which has remained fairly quiescent.
The Fed is right in this. Last year, many conservatives seized on rising headline inflation -- driven mainly by increasing gasoline prices -- as evidence of a looming inflation tsunami. Representative Paul Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican, for example, pointed to rising prices of raw materials and said ominously, ''There is nothing more insidious that a country can do to its citizens than debase its currency.'' Fed officials, however, steadfastly predicted that the inflation surge would soon ebb, and it did.
So the Fed doesn't think there are good reasons for high unemployment and isn't worried about inflation. Indeed, the minutes from the January meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy, revealed that a majority of members expected an eventual fall in unemployment to below 6 percent, with inflation remaining low.
Think about what this means in terms of the dual mandate. The Fed is supposed to pump up the economy when it's running too cold, with unemployment high and inflation low. That's where we are right now, in the Fed's own estimation. Yet the most recent minutes, from March, show Fed officials unwilling to take any further action to boost the economy.
Why won't the Fed do more?
Political Bullying
When Fed critics interpreted a brief escalation in raw-material prices as evidence of out-of-control inflation last year, it was unusual only because for once the critics had some actual inflation to talk about. Since 2008, the Fed has faced constant attacks over its supposed inflationary actions, whether or not the actual data indicate the existence of runaway inflation. Some attacks have even bordered on menace, most famously Rick Perry's warning that Bernanke would be treated ''pretty ugly'' if he visited Texas.
The effect must be somewhat intimidating. Recently N. Gregory Mankiw of Harvard University -- an adviser to Mitt Romney who himself briefly advocated raising the inflation target but went quiet after receiving intense criticism -- put it succinctly: ''If Chairman Bernanke ever suggested increasing inflation to, say, 4 percent, he would quickly return to being Professor Bernanke.''
Maybe, then, Bernanke still wants higher inflation and other unconventional policies but knows that there's no point in pursuing or even advocating them. But there are two problems with this supposition. First, that's not the way the Fed is supposed to work. It's meant to be insulated from political pressure -- so why would people so calmly accept the notion that it could be pressed to avoid doing what it thinks it should do? Second, Bernanke has gone out of his way to insist that his current position reflects an economic judgment, not political compromise -- that it's all about preserving that ''hard-won inflation credibility.''
I suspect that the old Bernanke would have scoffed. He would have pointed out that the Fed could still keep inflation within bounds -- that 4 percent inflation (which is what we actually had during the late years of the Reagan administration) need be no more unsettling than 2 percent inflation. He would also, I suspect, have argued that the risks of losing credibility pale beside the risks of inaction. Bear in mind, whenever someone invokes the specter of a return to '70s-style stagflation, when the economy is weak and inflation is high -- a greatly overrated risk -- that what we are going through now is much, much worse than anything that happened in the '70s. It takes a certain mind-set to worry more about a hypothetical loss of confidence than about the clear and present suffering of the unemployed -- the mind-set, one might say, of a conventional central banker.
The Fed as Borg
Recently Laurence Ball of Johns Hopkins University made waves among monetary economists by looking through Fed minutes to determine how and when Ben Bernanke's views changed. According to Ball, Bernanke's big retreat from F.D.R.-like resolve happened way back in 2003, less than a year after he arrived at the Fed. That month, a Fed staff report rejected many of the ideas Bernanke previously supported -- and ever since, Bernanke has spoken only of limited responses to the problem of the zero lower bound. What's puzzling about this apparent conversion is the fact that while Bernanke may have been a newbie at the Fed, he was a towering figure in his field. Why should he have taken his cues from a staff report?
Ball emphasizes both the pressures of groupthink and Bernanke's shy personality. Without necessarily disagreeing, I'd point to a crucial difference between the policies Bernanke advocated in his pre-Fed days and the ones he has supported since 2003. His Fed-era policies aren't simply less ambitious than those of his academic era; just as important, Chairman Bernanke's policy menu, unlike Professor Bernanke's proposals, has been set up so that the Fed can't be blamed for failure.
Suppose, for example, that the Fed announces a higher inflation target. It might not work: markets might not consider the Fed's proclamations credible and believe instead that no matter what the Fed says now, it will return to its traditional focus on price stability. So an attempt to raise expected inflation could lead to an embarrassing failure. When buying government bonds, on the other hand, the Fed can always claim that the policy worked, even if the economy does poorly, because it can insist that things would have been even worse without its actions. So by retreating to a narrow definition of the Fed's role, Bernanke has also adopted a position that is much more comfortable for the Fed as an institution.
Back in 2000, Professor Bernanke warned against exactly this kind of retreat, harshly criticizing the Bank of Japan's unwillingness to ''try anything that isn't absolutely guaranteed to work.'' But within a year of his arrival at the Fed, he seemed to have been assimilated by the Fed Borg, like Capt. Jean-Luc Picard in a famous ''Star Trek'' episode, converted into a half-robot servant of a hive-mind.
Bernanke may have pulled back from his earlier activism years ago, but given the scale of our economic catastrophe, he might well have returned to his earlier views if the political climate hadn't been so hostile. So I wouldn't fully discount the importance of right-wing bullying. As for his insistence that it's not about politics -- could he really get away with saying, or even hinting, that pressure from the likes of Paul Ryan is keeping him from pursuing full employment?
My best guess is that the disappointing response of the Bernanke Fed represents the effects of both bullies and the Borg, a combination of political intimidation and the desire to make life easy for the Fed as an institution. Whatever the mix of these motives, the result is clear: faced with an economy still in desperate need of help, the Fed is unwilling to provide that help. And that, unfortunately, makes the Fed part of a broader problem.
Consider, if you will, the current state of our nation. Despite hints of economic progress, we're still in the midst of an immense disaster, in which unemployment and underemployment are devastating millions of American lives. And none of this need be happening! There has been no plague of locusts; we have not lost our technological know-how. Americans should be richer, not poorer, than they were five years ago. Yet economic policy across the board has become almost passive, has essentially accepted this disaster instead of trying to end it.
The Fed under Bernanke is by no means the worst sinner in this failure of intellect and will, and you can argue that Ben Bernanke has done a better job than anyone else who might have held his position. Yet the fact is, he has not done remotely enough. The Fed, under its eminent chairman, was supposed to be an important part of the solution to mass unemployment. That isn't happening.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY KELSEY DAKE) (MM18
MM19
 MM20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1038 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; LETTERS TO THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Questions of Bias and Balance

 BODY:
Re ''A Hard Look at the President'' (April 22): I like your push for The Times to avoid bias in covering the presidential election. It strikes me as admirable even though, as a liberal, I naturally think that charges of bias against The Times are often overheated.
But I was startled by your use, twice, of the question, ''Who is the real Barack Obama?'' That question is practically a rallying cry of Obama's enemies on the extreme right who go on to call Obama a secret Muslim, or secret communist, or the most radical president we've ever had, or a man who hates America, all that besides being an impostor who isn't even a proper American citizen. 
Nobody ever asked ''Who is the real George Bush?'' or ''Who is the real Bill Clinton?'' or ''Who is the real Ronald Reagan?'' or ''Who is the real Lyndon Johnson?'' Asking it about Obama implies, with considerable force, that the ''real Obama'' is somebody other than the Obama we've been watching for four years. Just what the extreme Obama-bashers believe.
The question thus indicates, no doubt inadvertently, a bias where it least belongs -- in an analysis of what's required to eliminate bias from the paper's political news reporting.
JOEL RAPHAELSON Chicago
Arthur S. Brisbane, public editor: My column addressed the substance of the president's policies, not unfounded claims about his background. In retrospect, my use of the question created a distraction I would prefer to have avoided.
''And The Times needs to show that it can address the question in a hard-nosed, unbiased way.''
I for one would love to see the day when I could again trust The Times to report without the pervasive insertion of personal opinion and skewed editorial choices as to content and placement. But I doubt I will live that long.
I still read The Times, but it is out of a sense of keeping my friends close but my enemies closer.
JIM STOCKS Tyler, Tex.
Arthur Brisbane's critique of The Times's alleged political bias echoes tired and worn accusations from the ultraconservative media juggernaut's attempt to squelch liberal viewpoints.
If The Times's editors do follow Brisbane's request of examining Obama's record and campaign promises, I trust they will give equal attention to Congressional Republicans' record of thwarting those promises. While it is true that time and time again, Obama abandoned his promises to a liberal electorate in order to compromise with Republicans, The Times should also review how those same Republicans reneged on their agreements and betrayed the president's trust.
Republicans have blocked fair tax reform, damaged the United States government's credit rating and resisted adequate funding for economic stimulus. Now they complain that the economic recovery under Obama is going too slowly! By all means, let's have unbiased reporting.
BRUCE JOFFE Piedmont, Calif.
An excellent column, but sadly, a hopeless quest. What sort of balance can we possibly expect from a newspaper that continually excoriated George Bush for his policies related to the waterboarding of three proven terrorists but can't find its voice to protest the Obama administration's drone strikes, which kill countless innocents?
JOEL RAMICH Boonton Township, N.J.
The Obituary Beat
Re ''Someone Dies. But That Is Only the Beginning.'' (April 15): I was the press/public relations director at New York City Opera for 30 years until I retired last year. One of the things that The Times used to be very supportive about was writing obituaries of known New Yorkers. When a known member of our company passed away, The Times always printed at least a small obit, as it did with other arts organizations in the city. It reported the news, as was its job.
Now, no one really knows who's alive and who's dead in the city anymore. We all read the paid obits and hope we're getting the news. Frequently, we now find out much later that people have passed away and are gone. These long, interpretive obits are nice and interesting, but they are taking the place of news.
Why cannot The Times reinstitute a policy of at least reporting on the passing of known New York citizens? That's what the news is about.
SUSAN WOELZL Manhattan
Bill McDonald, obituary editor: We feel we actually display a bit of hometown bias. This is our backyard, we love New York and our roster of subjects from all over the metropolitan region is long -- some well known, some less so (but no less newsworthy). But we can only do so many, and so we try to choose New Yorkers who we think would attract the widest interest.
Perhaps obituaries should be written twice, each by a different writer who can offer a different angle on the same life. After all, every life has its highs and lows, moments of the heavenly and those of the mundane. Some lives soar and some become sidetracked. It is like watching an old movie and suddenly realizing that the actors have passed on, leaving a slice of themselves behind on a piece of celluloid. Is it who we were that mattered or what we did at a particular moment?
BRUCE NEUMAN Sag Harbor, N.Y.
Thank you for writing about the obit writers. I think the obituaries are one of the best things about The New York Times. I'm especially glad you mentioned the butter sculptor lady. I cut that one out to use in class with my English as a Second Language students, who are from Asia, South America, the Middle East and Africa. It seemed to me to be a quintessentially American story, involving Iowa, the state fair, farm animals, butter and a can-do attitude.
Another one I remember from some years ago is the death of the Australian man who The Times said was the world's leading authority on the duck-billed platypus. I discussed this at length with my younger son, who lives in New York and is also a fan of the obits. ''Who do you suppose is the second platypus authority?'' Steve wondered.
PATRICIA WELCH Manassas Park, Va.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); MEDIA BIAS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); JOURNALISM (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (90%) AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1039 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Katherine Grady, Albert Haber

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
Katherine Culbertson Grady and Albert Michael Haber were married Saturday evening at the Missouri History Museum in St. Louis. Judge Julian L. Bush of the 22nd Judicial Circuit Court of Missouri officiated. 
The bride, 31, is a senior consultant on strategic projects for the Frankel Group, a management consultancy in Manhattan that specializes in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. She graduated from the University of Chicago and received a master's in public health from Yale.
She is a daughter of Emily L. Grady and Michael P. Grady of St. Louis. The bride's father is a professor of research methodology at St. Louis University. Her mother is an English teacher at Clayton High School in Clayton, Mo.
The bridegroom, also 31, is a revenue manager for JetBlue Airways. He works in Long Island City, Queens, where he sets the pricing for transcontinental flights. He graduated from Bates College in Maine.
He is the son of Pitima T. Haber and Michael A. Haber of Manhattan. The bridegroom's parents are retired from Greyhound. His mother was a station manager in Hempstead, N.Y. His father was a mechanic at the Port Authority terminal in Midtown Manhattan.
The couple met in Manhattan in 2009 through a mutual friend, who had an easier time convincing Mr. Haber that they might be good for each other.
''At the time, I was down on New York,'' Ms. Grady said. ''It was the middle of the recession. I had just broken up with a native New Yorker, and the last thing I wanted was to meet another one.''
Mr. Haber was in a different frame of mind. ''My friend asked if I wanted to go out with a cute, smart girl,'' he recalled. ''I said yes.''
After their first date, at a bar, Ms. Grady had taken to Mr. Haber.
''As it turned out, he wasn't anything like the stereotypical New Yorker I imagined him to be,'' she said. ''He's ridiculously nice and patient, and he walks really slowly.''
They began dating steadily thereafter, Mr. Haber going so far as to list Ms. Grady as his significant other for free-flight privileges.
''In the past, my best friends were the ones listed for this benefit,'' he said. ''They were all shocked when I asked them to relinquish their buddy passes for a girl.'' VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ILENE SQUIRES PHOTOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); HISTORY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (66%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1040 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: The Dewhurst Legacy: Skilled Politician or Pushover?

BYLINE: By AMAN BATHEJA. 
abatheja@texastribune.org

 BODY:
If Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst wins his bid to replace Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, who is retiring, he will leave a job he has had for nearly 10 years -- longer than all but two other lieutenant governors in Texas history.
The position, held by legends like Bob Bullock and Bill Hobby, is often described as the most powerful seat in Texas government. Mr. Dewhurst's tenure has drawn a mixed appraisal: he has presided over the passage of dozens of major bills, but critics said that when push came to shove, his political aspirations weakened his resolve.
''He has a humble persona and a softer persona, but that belies a very capable and skilled presiding officer,'' said a fellow Republican, Terry Keel, the executive director of the Texas Facilities Commission and a former state representative and House parliamentarian. He said that Mr. Dewhurst's critics incorrectly interpret his gentlemanly demeanor as that of a pushover.
But others said that too often Mr. Dewhurst ducked the bare-knuckled negotiations expected of the president of the Texas Senate. 
''Dewhurst caves,'' said former State Senator Eliot Shapleigh, Democrat of El Paso. ''When extremists threaten, Dewhurst caves over and over.''
In his Republican primary campaign for Senate, a race in which he is in the lead, Mr. Dewhurst is taking credit for a long list of measures passed since 2003. He is pointing to how Texas has weathered the recession better than most states as proof of his effective leadership, much as Gov. Rick Perry did in his recent presidential bid.
In a body where moderates have often held the most power, Mr. Dewhurst has taken hits from both sides of the aisle. Democrats have accused him of kowtowing to the right wing, and some more conservative members of his party dismiss him as a timid moderate.
Mr. Dewhurst declined to be interviewed for this article.
Mark P. Jones, a political science professor at Rice University, studied the votes of the 2011 regular and special sessions and determined that Mr. Dewhurst was well aligned with two-thirds of Republicans in the Senate but more moderate than the body's most conservative members.
That position on the chamber's political spectrum has allowed Mr. Dewhurst to more easily clear the crucial Senate hurdle of drawing the support of at least two-thirds of the chamber to bring up most bills, according to Mr. Jones.
''It's not working with factions; it's not working with parties,'' Mr. Jones said. ''It's working with 31 individuals.''
When Mr. Dewhurst took over the Senate in 2003, he was the outsider with everything to prove. Most lieutenant governors had entered the job with some time served in the Legislature.
A millionaire businessman, rancher and former C.I.A. employee, Mr. Dewhurst had made his debut in public office four years earlier, tapping his personal wealth to win a race for land commissioner. He then spent millions on his victorious bid for lieutenant governor, winning 52 percent of the vote against John Sharp, a Democrat.
In contrast to Mr. Dewhurst's legislative inexperience and his reputation as a stiff micromanager, the Texas House had just elected a new speaker, Tom Craddick, a forceful, battle-tested Midland Republican who has served in the House since 1969.
Amid low expectations, Mr. Dewhurst surprised many that first session, helping to steer a major tort-reform package and cutting the budget while earning the respect of his colleagues as a burgeoning team player.
In the ensuing eight years, Mr. Dewhurst would lead the Senate to take on both highly partisan measures like redistricting and voter ID along with sweeping enterprises like overhauling public school finance. He would also play a lead role in requiring the testing of high school athletes for steroids and beefing up prison sentences for certain violent child predators.
Mr. Dewhurst has never drawn the larger-than-life plaudits of Mr. Bullock, who was lieutenant governor through most of the 1990s and was widely viewed as a major player on every important bill, or of Mr. Hobby, who held the position for 18 years before that.
''Previous lieutenant governors pretty much drove the agenda,'' said State Senator Leticia Van de Putte, Democrat of San Antonio. ''And Dewhurst, I think because he didn't have that legislative backdrop and experience, he was more of a caretaker of the Senate.''
Bruce Gibson, a former Texas House member who later served as an aide to Mr. Bullock and as Mr. Dewhurst's chief of staff, said the two men had more in common than some may realize.
''They're both hands-on, had full knowledge of their budget priorities,'' Mr. Gibson said. ''They just had very different budget priorities.'' He added that ''both were consummate negotiators.''
Yet Mr. Dewhurst frequently frustrated senators from both parties for not appearing to hold firm in negotiations with the House or with Mr. Perry.
In the 2011 session, the House wanted to cut more from the state budget than the Senate did. Several senators were annoyed and puzzled when Mr. Dewhurst appeared to suggest he was willing to tap the state's Rainy Day Fund and then, days later, insisted the opposite. Many felt that the House ultimately got the upper hand and that more cuts were granted than necessary.
Supporters of the lieutenant governor argue that such criticism ignores the measures he has effectively steered through the Senate when drawing enough support has been in doubt.
''You just can't preside over there,'' Mr. Keel said. ''You've got to be able to twist arms of your own party. I saw it. He was every bit as effective as Craddick was in that regard.''
In recent years, State Senator Dan Patrick, Republican of Houston, who is also a conservative radio host, has emerged as a powerful challenger to the Senate's status quo and an occasional thorn in Mr. Dewhurst's side.
Despite some public clashes, Mr. Patrick, who is considering a run for lieutenant governor in 2014, said he regards Mr. Dewhurst as an ally, noting that Mr. Dewhurst had appointed him to several powerful committees.
''He counted on my conservative vote,'' Mr. Patrick said. ''He knew I'd hold the line.''
Mr. Patrick was less charitable last May, when he accused Mr. Dewhurst of conspiring to kill a controversial effort to apply criminal penalties to federal airport security agents who conduct intrusive pat-downs.
''Someone who will not stand up to the federal government, you have to ask yourself, is that the kind of person we need in the U.S. Senate?'' Mr. Patrick said at the time.
Mr. Patrick said that he and Mr. Dewhurst resolved their differences over the bill and together asked Mr. Perry to add the measure to the agenda of a special session. A version of the bill eventually made it out of the Senate but died in the House.
''You can have a disagreement for a moment and then you move on,'' Mr. Patrick said.
He said that he is not endorsing anyone in the Senate race but predicted that Mr. Dewhurst would win the primary and avoid a runoff.
While others had trouble pinpointing Mr. Dewhurst's legacy, Mr. Patrick said that the 2003 tort-reform package and a measure last year requiring women to receive sonograms before undergoing an abortion are landmarks of Mr. Dewhurst's tenure.
''To me,'' Mr. Patrick said, ''that's an incredible legacy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst leads the United States Senate race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DAEMMRICH FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); POLITICS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%)

PERSON: KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (73%); RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1041 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: A New Pawn in China's Two Tugs of War

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The escape of a blind human rights lawyer from house arrest, and apparently into the hands of American officials here, came at an excruciatingly awkward time for the Chinese leadership as it struggles to preserve a cohesive front after the spectacular dismissal of Bo Xilai, a member of China's Politburo.
The case of the lawyer, Chen Guangcheng, who is believed to be in the United States Embassy in Beijing, poses a quandary for the leadership. It is a blow to officials in charge of security and legal affairs, who oversaw the controversial treatment of Mr. Chen, and then allowed him escape their grasp.
But at the same time the issue could redound to the benefit of hard-liners, who may see his escape as part of a conspiracy to embarrass China that involves the United States, several diplomats here said. 
For the Obama administration, the case presents multiple headaches. Mitt Romney, the likely Republican presidential nominee, has accused President Obama of essentially being soft on China, an argument that could limit Mr. Obama's negotiating room with the Chinese over Mr. Chen.
It would be nearly impossible for Mr. Obama to reach a quick resolution of the Chen case in the way that he was able to when a top Chinese police official turned up at the American Consulate in Chengdu in February in connection with the Bo Xilai case, diplomats and analysts said.
Within two days, the police official, Wang Lijun, was turned over to Chinese officials, and he remains in custody. Both sides insist that he left the consulate of his own accord.
In contrast, Washington has championed Mr. Chen as a human rights activist, and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton publicized his house arrest in a speech last November.
From the Chinese point of view, it would be hard to let Mr. Chen leave China, one solution that, in any case, his supporters say the lawyer does not seek.
Thus, Mr. Chen's arrival on American property more closely resembles the episode of Fang Lizhi, a Chinese astrophysicist who fled to the American Embassy after the crackdown at Tiananmen Square in 1989 and stayed for a year, until negotiations between the administration of President George Bush and the Chinese leader, Deng Xiaoping, allowed Mr. Fang to fly to London. As part of the bargain, Mr. Fang, who died this month after years in the United States, wrote a letter promising not to engage in anti-Chinese activity.
The handling of the Chen case could shed light on the maturity of the relationship between the United States and China, one that is far more complicated and multilayered than it was in 1989. Then, China was looking to take its place on the world stage, and possessed slightly less self-esteem as an international actor, a senior foreign diplomat here said Saturday. Now, exhilarated by its economic success, China is more nationalistic in its outlook, and eager to close the gaps between itself and the United States.
On the basis of that competition alone, handing Mr. Chen to the Americans could be extremely difficult, and unpopular with the Chinese people. ''Remember, the system always tilts to the hard-line left in moments of stress, and no one can afford to be seen as 'soft on the Americans,' especially at a tense time in domestic politics,'' said an American with long experience here who declined to be named because he did not want to anger Chinese officials.
Perhaps the biggest threat to the leadership is the way Mr. Chen is likely to become a pawn between the major ideological camps that have emerged in the wake of Mr. Bo's dismissal.
The chief of China's security apparatus, Zhou Yongkang, would be able to use Mr. Chen as a ''told you so'' example to push back against the more pro-Western camp, led by President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, two foreign diplomats here said. Mr. Zhou could argue that Mr. Chen plotted to embarrass the leadership at a vulnerable moment after Mr. Bo's downfall, and did so with the cooperation of the Americans, said the diplomats, who requested anonymity in keeping with diplomatic protocol. This argument would put Mr. Wen and Mr. Hu on the defensive, the diplomats said.
It is also possible that supporters of Mr. Bo, like Mr. Zhou, will demand that the United States hand Mr. Chen back to China, a stance that could solidify support for the hard-line faction, the diplomats said.
The timing of Mr. Chen's escape threw the spotlight on the relationship between China and the United States in another way, raising the possibility that Mr. Chen and his supporters chose the moment to apply pressure on both countries.
About 200 American officials, led by Mrs. Clinton and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, are scheduled to arrive in Beijing this week for a two-day conference on security and economic issues, an annual high-level meeting. Included in the group is the assistant secretary for democracy, human rights and labor, Michael H. Posner, who has taken a special interest in Mr. Chen and will ensure that the issue receives Mrs. Clinton's attention.
At a briefing for reporters on Saturday, Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai said that the conference would go ahead as planned. Mr. Cui played down Mr. Chen's escape, saying, ''I don't think this issue will occupy much time or focus.'' He declined to answer further questions on the matter.
For Beijing, pushing ahead with the meeting had a certain logic, diplomats here said. President Hu could use the occasion to lecture Mrs. Clinton about his perception that the United States is interfering in the internal affairs of China, they said.
If Mr. Chen is inside the American Embassy, his exact whereabouts within the block-long, well-guarded, fortresslike compound were unclear. How he might have entered was also not known. One diplomat speculated that Mr. Chen might have turned up at the visa section, waited in the long line with the numerous other applicants, and once inside asked for asylum.
Others said that he might have gone to the residence of the American ambassador, Gary Locke, or taken refuge in the apartment of an American diplomat. That could leave him open to an attempt by security forces to seize him, the diplomats said.
In all the unanswered questions, one aspect seemed certain. It will take a meeting of senior Chinese leaders to deal with Mr. Chen's future, diplomats said.
While the wounds were healing in the aftermath of the Bo affair, two senior leaders, Prime Minister Wen and Vice Prime Minister Li Keqiang, left last week for trips abroad, departures that were intended to show that differences at the top had diminished, or at least that a truce had been reached.
If there is to be a speedy resolution of Mr. Chen's case, the two men will need to return home quickly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); HOUSE ARREST (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); MITT ROMNEY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1042 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Table Talk: The New Family Dinner

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS

 BODY:
GROWING up in the '70s, I sat down to a family dinner that was consistent with my parents' child-rearing philosophy at the time, which my mother likes to call ''benign neglect.'' Over dinner, my father briefed my mother on the ins and outs of his day at the office, while my siblings and I zoned out or piped up or fought over why my older sister always got the corner seat. We sat down as a family to a good, healthy meal, but dinner was not what you would call child-centric -- which was fine with us, and definitely fine with them.
Dinner with our closest family friends, at whose home I stayed when my parents traveled, veered in a different direction altogether. After an elegant, home-cooked dinner, the father of the family's three boys would put down his fork, address one of his sons by name, and start talking about trains, planes or automobiles -- one was going so many miles an hour, while another, moving at a different rate, was leaving from a different coast. When would they meet up? The boys all found these oral math games entertaining, and so did I, until the father posed one of those questions to me, at which point my mind went blank for one long minute before I finally burst into tears. 
Because of the cultural whiplash I experienced in regularly attending two remarkably different family meals, I have always been fascinated by the range of conversations that pass for normal at other people's homes at mealtime: what rituals and rules of discourse do parents invent, to what conventions do they default or aspire?
Franklin Foer, editor at large for The New Republic and the brother of the writers Jonathan Safran Foer and Joshua Foer, recalls his childhood meals as freewheeling affairs where the only rule was that everyone show up. ''We were never asked, 'What did you do today?' '' Franklin Foer said. His father, a lawyer who served on the board of the American Civil Liberties Union, led his children in debates about economic policy and civil rights issues, but with an open ear: a conversation about Reagan's Star Wars policies might lead to a discussion about ''why we couldn't build a giant shield over the United States out of Legos,'' Mr. Foer said, recalling also that ''scatological humor was encouraged at our dinner table.''
If the Foer family dinner sounds like the South Park version of what the Kennedy families once did -- expecting children to come to meals prepared to discuss current events -- the Emanuel family sounds more like the Fight Club version of the same. Rahm Emanuel, the mayor of Chicago; Ari Emanuel, a Hollywood agent; and Ezekiel Emanuel, a bioethicist, came to dinner, at their mother's insistence, ready to discuss the issues of the day; Rahm Emanuel has described the ensuing debates as ''gladiatorial.''
But Ezekiel Emanuel, now a professor and vice provost at the University of Pennsylvania, clarified that things never actually became violent. ''Lots of screaming but no fistfights,'' he said.
The emphasis at his own family's meals, which he and his now ex-wife shared with their children at breakfast and dinner, was less about preparation for public life and more of an opportunity for family members to tune into one another's affairs. ''We'd go around the table, and everyone reported how their day went,'' said Mr. Emanuel, whose youngest is now 21. Meals started with a Jewish blessing; as for formal discussions of politics, ''We were not stilted,'' he said. Nor were they fighting furiously: ''We had three girls,'' he explained. ''It's different.''
Aiming high for mealtime conversation can be a family tradition -- or a way of giving children something the parents wished they themselves had had. When Howard Gordon, the co-creator of ''Homeland,'' was growing up, ''dinner tended to be quick and not one that emphasized conversation,'' he said. With his own family, he hoped for more, which proved a challenge.
''It wasn't as easy as just legislating that every dinner was going to be meaningful,'' said Mr. Gordon, whose oldest son is now 18 and in college, and whose other children are 15 and 7. He has tried to introduce serious subjects of debate, ideas about the redistribution of wealth or taxation, into conversation. ''More often than not, my kids were like, 'Oh, God, do we have to do this?' '' he said. ''My attempts at meaning were transparent, and failed sometimes. But with a little elbow grease, if you picked the right subject, something would happen.''
Amy Chua, the Yale Law professor who wrote ''Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother,'' the controversial chronicle of her own overambitious parenting technique, said her immigrant parents imparted to her a passion for academics -- but not over dinner. ''We did not say one word,'' she recalled. Eating and television news dominated the meal.
In her own home, she said, she and her husband, the law professor Jed Rubenfeld, try to devote about half the meal to catching up on their children's lives and the other half to ''bringing up interesting cases with moral dilemmas.'' (Example: If one of us committed a crime, would you turn us in?) ''I felt like, let's not just gossip about stupid stuff,'' Ms. Chua said. ''I wanted them to be more cultured and have deeper thoughts.''
Such ambitions are not the purview of tiger mothers alone. Actually getting the meal on the table and coordinating overbooked schedules is enough of a struggle that when family dinner does happen, a parent could be forgiven for having high expectations -- a moment of connection, at last, that justifies the effort.
''A big part of the challenge is teaching your kids how to have a real conversation, not a texting conversation,'' said Laurie David, a producer of ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' who has since devoted her considerable advocacy skills to encouraging more stimulating mealtimes. ''If they're not sitting down at the table, the art of conversation is going to go.''
Ms. David's 2010 book, ''The Family Dinner,'' includes almost as many discussion starting points as it does recipes, and she now posts regular topics of conversation on The Huffington Post, under the rubric ''Table Talk.'' (A recent example, inspired by Jeremy Lin: Why do we love an underdog? Have you ever been an underdog?)
What Jacqueline Kennedy did for the triple strand of pearls, the Obama family has done for the thorn and the rose, a mealtime ritual, simple and fail-safe, in which each family member talks about his or her low and high point of the day.
But the tradition has been around for longer than the Obamas have been in office. Cynthia McFadden, a co-anchor of ''Nightline,'' said she was inspired by a dinnertime scene in the 1998 film ''Stepmom'' that featured a family talking about their high and low points for the day. She has been asking her now-13-year-old son to do the same since he could speak, and sharing hers, too.
''I think it's really powerful for kids to hear their parents say, 'I had a fight with my boss and had to go to my bathroom to cry,' '' Ms. McFadden said. ''It really gives kids at the table permission to talk about the things they're struggling with.''
Like so many other families who have followed the Obama example, my husband and I pose the nightly question to our own 5-year-old twins. I like to think of it as a ritual that is more child-friendly than child-centric: As often as not, I learn something about my husband's day he might not otherwise have mentioned.
I can't quite imagine my family, circa 1977, doing the same. It would have felt contrived, like some sitcom-y gloss on the reality of our modern lives. Maybe that was an era when anything that reeked of so much wholesome good cheer felt faintly suspect. These days, I am grateful for anything that imposes some order on the chaos of mealtime (and a break from the usual topics of conversation, the evils of chair-wriggling and nose-picking).
That need for structure, any structure, may also have been less pressing to my parents' generation, who seemed, so often, to have a firmer grip on discipline, using mysterious techniques now lost to posterity.
Franklin Foer said his own family, too, has been known to incorporate the thorn and the rose in their family dinner. But he is lukewarm on this particular Obama policy.
''To me, it always feels forced,'' said Mr. Foer, whose children are 4 and 7. ''What I learned from my mom and dad was that you can go to the big subjects and engage kids more -- my kids are so much more fascinated by World War II than trying to summarize what happened to them that day.''
He also finds a way to bring old family traditions directly to his dinner table, he said. When his children ask him a question he can't answer, Mr. Foer calls his father on the phone. Then he puts him on speaker, in the middle of the table, expanding the boundaries of family dinner to include the past.
The dinner conversation continues.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(ST1)
ENGAGE: Franklin Foer, left, of The New Republic, encourages significant dinner conversations with his children, as does the environmentalist Laurie David.
 DISCUSS: Howard Gordon, left, of ''Homeland,'' has tried to introduce serious subjects of debate. Prof. Ezekiel Emanuel, right, recalls ''lots of screaming'' during family mealtime as a child.(ST2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%); WRITERS (63%); PUBLIC POLICY (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); BIOETHICS (50%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1043 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Newswallah: Long Reads Edition

BYLINE: NEHA THIRANI


HIGHLIGHT: Top magazine and long-form articles this week. 

 BODY:
Why has the promise of India remained unfulfilled? Basharat Peer enumerates the many reasons for India's recent failures and uncertain future in an article in Foreign Affairs magazine. The piece argues that while India's elite and growing middle class have become increasingly vociferous at expounding their aspiration for India to become a great power, the country has little to show for it. Mr. Peer analyzes two popular books from last year - "Behind the Beautiful Forevers," by Katherine Boo, and "The Beautiful and the Damned," by Siddhartha Deb - to show how increasing inequity hampers the promise of India's growing international influence. 
For Mr. Peer, both books demonstrate the desire for upward mobility at every socioeconomic level. However, the author chronicles recent events in the nation to show how corruption, inequality, deeply embedded poverty and poor governance have crippled the nation. Likening the contemporary moment in India to the Gilded Age in the United States, the author asks whether the much-touted democratic system has indeed become yet another hurdle for the country.
In an , Tehelka's Revati Laul looks into illegal mining in the Aravalis, one of the world's oldest mountain ranges that stretch from Pakistan to New Delhi. While a mining ban by the Supreme Court in 2009 has managed to curb illegal mining in the Aravalis in Haryana, the article says illegal mining continues to plunder the part of the mountain range situated in Rajasthan. Ms. Laul estimates that the illegal business, which is difficult to quantify, could be worth more than 500 billion rupees or $9.5 billion. 
Based on conversations with highly placed officers from the elite Indian Administrative Service and government officials, the author notes that the people involved in the illegal practice range from district level officials to government ministers. Many of them are "mine owners by proxy," she writes. By interviewing people in the business and going over the little available official data, Tehelka attempts to estimate the size and scale of the illegal mining business in Rajasthan, and the revenue loss for the government.
"Why is it obscene to accept that a historically wounded people are ready to move on?" In a contentious piece in Open Magazine, Manu Joseph argues that the insistence of elites in Kashmir and non-resident Kashmiris to continue to harbor trauma and anger from the Indian occupation of Kashmir is harmful to the residents. The author writes that in a recent trip to Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, he noticed that the young people of the valley were eager to "get on with their lives despite the presence of the Indian Army." While peace is bringing tourism and business to the valley, the ordinary people living in Kashmir are looking for further economic development rather than only a political resolution, Mr. Joseph writes.

        
Newswallah: Long Reads Edition
        
Newswallah: Long Reads Edition
        
Newswallah: Long Reads Edition
        
Newswallah: Long Reads Edition
        
Newswallah: Long Reads Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); LITERATURE (76%); MOUNTAINS (71%); MINES & MINING (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); CORRUPTION (68%); ARMIES (67%) Foreign Affairs (Magazine); Open Magazine; Tehelka; Boo, Katherine; Deb, Siddhartha; Joseph, Manu; Books and Literature; Writing and Writers; Reuters Group Plc; India; Kashmir and Jammu (India); New Delhi (India); Rajasthan (India)

ORGANIZATION: Foreign Affairs (Magazine); Reuters Group Plc; Tehelka

PERSON: Boo, Katherine; Deb, Siddhartha; Joseph, Manu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%) KASHMIR (96%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (93%); RAJASTHAN, INDIA (90%); HARYANA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) India; Kashmir and Jammu (India); New Delhi (India); Rajasthan (India)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1044 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: With No Revenue, an Illusion of Value

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: Small start-ups that make money often find it difficult to recruit additional investment. By keeping their revenue at zero, they can pluck a projected valuation out of thin air. 

 BODY:
The gears of Silicon Valley continue to mesh and turn because of money, not necessarily technological innovations. And there are certain things about that money machine that denizens of the Valley would rather keep quiet.
First, they'll never acknowledge the possibility of a bubble. "Bubble? Ha!" venture capitalists often tell me. "Silly reporter, there is no bubble."
O.K., I get this spin. It makes sense from an investor's point of view. Acknowledging any possibility that tech companies aren't worth what you say they are worth would be followed by the sound of a giant pop, and the money and investments would dry up. The machine could grind to a halt.
Yet an even more bizarre activity in the Valley than shushing the talk of a bubble is how some start-ups are advised by investors not to make money. This concept may sound ridiculous from a business standpoint, but for investors, it fuels the get-richer-quicker mentality that exists here.
"It serves the interest of the investors who can come up with whatever valuation they want when there are no revenues," explained Paul Kedrosky, a venture investor and entrepreneur. "Once there is no revenue, there is no science, and it all just becomes finger in the wind valuations."
When small start-ups I've spoken with do make money, they often find it difficult to recruit additional investment because most venture capitalists - and often the entrepreneurs they finance - are not interested in building viable long-term businesses. Rather, they're interested in pumping up enough hype and valuation to find a quick exit through an acquisition at an eye-popping premium.
Getting acquired while producing no revenue is like performing a card trick without the deck of cards: the magician simply explains how magical the trick is, never actually showing it. (And we are supposed to step back in sheer awe.)
For start-ups, fewer numbers in the equation mean a projected valuation can be plucked out of thin air.
Look how well this worked for Instagram, which had zero in revenue and was bought for $1 billion.
Although most companies are not acquired for 10 figures, there have been dozens of multimillion-dollar acquisitions of start-ups that make no money whatsoever. The acquisitions of YouTube, FriendFeed, Zite, Hot Potato, Beluga, GroupMe, TweetDeck and Dodgeball are just a few samples involving companies with little to no revenue.
The term often used behind closed doors with this no-revenue formula is mark-to-mystery. This is a play on the common term for a more logical investment practice called mark-to-market, which is used to create a realistic appraisal of a company's financial assets.
"V.C.'s can create this mark-to-mystery valuation because as long as there are no numbers, I can have whatever mark I want for an external valuation of a start-up," Mr. Kedrosky said.
So why does the lunacy of building companies with no revenue or business model work?
Jeffrey Pfeffer, a professor at Stanford's Graduate School of Business, used that dirty word that investors scoff at: bubble.
Professor Pfeffer said that through "the hideous recession" that America has suffered in the last several years, the Valley has applied increasingly incoherent valuations to companies.
"This is 1999 all over again, but this time, it's gotten worse," he said, referring to the last technology bubble to burst. "We're back to companies throwing around funny money. The economic values don't add up."
He added: "These companies are simply being founded to be bought. With the exception of a select few, Silicon Valley has spawned no real companies over the past decade. Even now, as the value of eyeballs has gone down, people are buying concepts, not companies."
Indeed, this madness was invented in the late '90s and helped perpetuate the first dot-com crisis. "Mark-to-mystery was developed as a large part of the last bubble, but it's gotten a lot worse this time around," Mr. Kedrosky said.
When this next bubble pops - and it will pop - the idea to make no money can finally pop, too. Then investors can start working with companies to build businesses that have long-term financial goals, instead of just building a short-term mystery.

        
Despite Economic Slump, Europe Gets More Tech Start-Ups
        
Daily Report: A Turning Point for Mobile
        
Disruptions: Tech Valuations Defy the Restraints of Reality
        
Tech and the San Francisco Rental Bubble
        
More Secrecy in Silicon Valley

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%) dot-com bubble; Silicon Valley; Start-ups; Tech Bubble; Venture Capital; Silicon Valley (Calif)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1045 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Romney Calls for Protecting Chinese Dissident

BYLINE: STEVEN LEE MYERS


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney called Sunday for the Obama administration to protect a blind Chinese dissident and his family. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney weighed in on the looming diplomat crisis between the United States and China on Sunday, calling for the Obama administration to "take every measure" to protect a blind dissident and his family after his daring escape from extralegal house arrest last week.
Mr. Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee to run against President Obama, did not directly criticize the administration's handling on the case, but said that the fate of the dissident, Chen Guangcheng, underscored the need for unflinching American support for human rights in China.
"Any serious U.S. policy toward China must confront the facts of the Chinese government's denial of political liberties, its one-child policy and other violation of human rights," he said in a statement on Sunday, his first remarks on the issue since Mr. Chen's escape became known on Friday. Mr. Chen became famous because of his strong opposition to forced abortions and sterilizations conducted as part of China's policy of limiting families to one child.
"Our country must play a strong role in urging reform in China and supporting those fighting for the freedoms we enjoy," Mr. Romney added.
The State Department and the White House have repeatedly refused to discuss Mr. Chen's situation or his exact whereabouts, despite statements by Chinese officials and dissidents indicating that he is in the American embassy in Beijing. 
Mr. Romney's remarks made it clear that the administration would not be able to remain silent on the matter much longer. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner are scheduled to lead a large delegation to Beijing this week for two days of talks on economic and security issues - matters that will surely be overshadowed by Mr. Chen's case.
 Asked about Mr. Chen on "Fox News Sunday," the president's top counterterrorism adviser, John O. Brennan, declined to discuss it in detail, but added that the administration sought "an appropriate balance" with countries like China.
"I think in all instances the president tries to balance our commitment to human rights, making sure that the people throughout the world have the ability to express themselves freely and openly," he said, "but also that we can continue to carry out our relationships with key countries overseas."

        
Obama vs. Romney: Battle of the Fairness Doctrines
        
G.O.P. Chairman Previews General Election Campaign
        
G.O.P. National Committee Warmly Embraces Romney
        
Obama Holds Fund-Raising Edge Over Romney
        
Romney to Address Republican Leaders

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); ABORTION (53%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%) chen guangcheng; mitt romney; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1046 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Report Shows Quarterly Decline in Video Rental Revenue; Digital Streaming Increases

BYLINE: MICHAEL CIEPLY


HIGHLIGHT: The results show fundamental shifts in viewing habits as consumers rent fewer DVD from stores and subscription services and while showing an increased appetite for digital content. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - Powerful shifts in viewing habits continued to distort the market for movies and television shows in home entertainment formats, as video rentals from stores and subscription services collapsed in the first quarter of 2012, according to a report from the Digital Entertainment Group. Digital revenue grew just enough to lift overall home entertainment spending in the United States by 2.47 percent, to $4.45 billion compared with $4.3 billion over the same period in 2011. 
Total rentals, excluding video-on-demand, fell about 18 percent for the quarter, to about $1.8 billion from roughly $2 billion for the same quarter a year ago. That happened as rentals from stores fell more than 39 percent, to $305 million from about $504 million, and rentals of disks from subscription services like Netflix fell 48 percent, to $348 million from about $671 million.
Revenue from digital streaming was up 545 percent, to $549 million, from about $85 million in the year earlier period, and total digital revenue rose more than 74 percent, to $1.2 billion from about $699 million. But, as analysts have pointed out in the past, the continued increase in streaming revenue to some extent simply replaces revenue that in the past came from cable television sales. 
The Digital Entertainment Group, a consortium of companies in the home entertainment business, does not disclose the ups and downs of revenue from the display of movies and shows on cable services.

        
Did Hollywood's Home Viewing Revenue Fall Further Than First Thought?
        
Home Entertainment Spending Continues To Slide
        
DVD and Ticket Sales Look Even Worse Adjusted for Inflation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (91%); MOVIE REVENUES (91%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BROADBAND (75%); TICKET SALES (72%) Digital Entertainment Group; DVD (Digital Versatile Disc); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Netflix Inc; United States; Netflix Inc|NFLX|NASDAQ; Movies

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Digital Entertainment Group; Netflix Inc

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (90%) Netflix Inc; NFLX; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (90%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012



1047 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1732 words

HEADLINE: Finding The Limits of Empathy

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: In order to campaign effectively, President Obama and Mitt Romney have to figure each other's supporters out. It isn't easy. 

 BODY:
In any struggle, failure to understand the opposition is a weakness and a point of vulnerability. This is especially true in politics. Both the Democratic and the Republican parties have repeatedly fallen into the trap of overestimating popular support for their own policies and failing to anticipate hostile reactions to them.
In the 2012 election, two issues have already become symptomatic of this liability. The first is Obamacare, which, with its goal of universal coverage, exacts costs that many voters on the right and in the center view as unaffordable and undesirable. The second is the Republican call for an austerity imposed primarily on the poor and elderly under the aegis of the Ryan budget that was recently passed by the House. It seeks a major retrenchment of the welfare state.
Re-election campaigns are often more ideologically charged than elections with no incumbent. In 2012, Obamacare and the Ryan budget represent the predominant governing vision of each party, which means that the outcome of the election on Nov. 6 will accurately test where the voters stand on issues of fairness, equity and equality.
A major pitfall in this debate for liberals is that they underestimate, and in major crucial respects do not even understand, how it is possible that half or more than half of their fellow Americans espouse conservative values.
A 2011 analysis of how the left and the right look to each other, "The Moral Stereotypes of Liberals and Conservatives: Exaggeration of Differences across the Political Divide," by Jesse Graham of the University of Southern California, and Brian A. Nosek and Jonathan Haidt of the University of Virginia, concluded that:
the largest inaccuracies were in liberals' underestimations of conservatives' harm and fairness concerns, and liberals further exaggerated the political differences by overestimating their own such concerns.
Some of these politically explosive issues emerged when Eric Cantor, the Republican House Majority Leader, suggested on April 19 that Congress should consider making every adult pay at least a token amount in federal income taxes:
We also know that over 45 percent of the people in this country don't pay income taxes at all, and we have to question whether that's fair. And should we broaden the base in a way that we can lower rates for everybody who is paying taxes?
Cantor predictably provoked charges of unfairness from the left. "The Republicans are waging war on the poor in America," declared Ed Schultz, a liberal commentator on MSNBC:
Eric Cantor is complaining about poor Americans who don't pay income tax. But he leaves out all the tax that they do pay. The working poor have payroll taxes. Some pay about seven percent of their wages to Social Security and Medicare taxes.
The truth is that nearly everyone is confused about this. According to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, "When all federal, state, and local taxes are taken into account, the bottom fifth of households pays about 16 percent of their incomes in taxes, on average. The second-poorest fifth pays about 21 percent." Or, as Citizens for Tax Justice figures it, the bottom 20% of the income distribution pays 17.4% of their income in taxes; the second 20% pays 21.2%.
Tax calculations aside, another aspect of Cantor's remarks went largely unnoticed: their ideological inconsistency. How could a Republican leader, whose party adamantly opposes all tax hikes, suggest raising taxes on anyone?
Cantor's own explanation is incoherent. This entire discussion took place at a breakfast sponsored by Politico, where Cantor was asked, "What do you do about that, do you have a tax increase on the 45 percent who are paying no income tax?" His reply is worth quoting at length:
What is going to fund the necessary operations of the federal government? How do we allow for that to take place in a way that we can see a growing economy? Because whatever scenario you may choose to embrace about cutting the spending or reforming the entitlement programs, the necessary piece is a growing economy or you are never going to manage down and back to balance in the budget. So that has got to be the goal. How do you deal with that, how do you deal with a shrinking pie and number of people and entities that support the operations of government, and how do you go about continuing to milk them more, if that's what some want to do, but preserve their ability to provide the growth engine? And that leads me back to saying, those at the bottom end of the income scale want nothing more than to increase their income, to get up that ladder of success. So the goal should be how do you do that. I've never believed that you go raise taxes on those that have been successful that are paying in, taking from them, so that you just hand out and give to someone else. Those someone else want a hand up, they want to get up the ladder.
In translation, Cantor is saying that there are two classes of Americans: the first made up of the productive, the second made up of free riders. He justifies raising taxes on the poor - the supposed free riders - in order to lessen the tax burden on the better off - that is to say, the successful.
This is the conservative reformulation of liberal "class warfare" - an America made up of "those who carry their own weight" versus those "living on handouts." The conservative view carried the day in six recent presidential elections (1968, 1972, 1980, 1984, 1988 and 2004), and twice in revolutionary House elections (1994, 2010).
Ravi Iyer, a post-doctoral researcher at the University of Southern California who analyzes the differences in the moral outlook of conservatives and liberals, has posted an exceptionally interesting collection of data on his "Politics and Moral Psychology Blog." (Iyer's research is reinforced by the work of Philip E. Tetlock at Wharton and Linda J. Skitka of the University of Illinois.)
Iyer's work demonstrates some of the subtleties of liberal and conservative views on fairness and justice. When, for example, the issue is how a company should award bonuses, liberals more strongly than conservatives support giving money in equal amounts to all employees, or giving it out on the basis of need. Conservatives, on the other hand, strongly support award bonuses on the basis of performance and giving little or nothing to poor performers.
Cantor, an archetypal conservative, places little or no priority on neediness in formulating tax policy. This allows him to support the idea of taxing the poor, even though he is publicly committed to opposing all tax hikes.
Of course, we don't actually know what goes on in Cantor's mind, but other research shows that conservatives are more inclined to see the poor as "undeserving," as responsible for their condition. This view, in turn, makes it easier to contemplate taxing the poor and to view them as "free riders" taking advantage of the system while not paying their share of the costs.
How empathetic are the American people?
Politically engaged liberals and conservatives exhibit strikingly different levels of empathy. The following chart, constructed by Iyer, illustrates this beautifully:
The more interested in politics a conservative is, the lower his (or her) level of empathy. Liberals move in the opposite direction: the more interested in politics they are, the more empathetic. Empathy, in case you're wondering, is measured by responses to 28 statements in the "Davis Interpersonal Reactivity Index," including "I often have tender, concerned feelings for people less fortunate than me," "I sometimes find it difficult to see things from the 'other guy's' point of view," and "Sometimes I don't feel very sorry for other people when they are having problems."
In the 2010 election, 42 percent of voters identified themselves as conservative; 38 percent said they were moderate; and 20 percent said they were liberal. If that division obtains in 2012 and beyond, the proportion of conservative to liberal voters in the electorate should give liberals pause, especially insofar as they expect elected officials to propose and pass legislation the underlying purpose of which is to help those most in need.
As the campaign has progressed, Mitt Romney has voiced a series of changing (now steadily moderated) iterations of his notion of empathy, fairness and an equitable society. The latest version emerged in an April 24 speech celebrating his victories in the Pennsylvania, Delaware, Rhode Island, Connecticut and New York primaries:
This America is fundamentally fair. We will stop the unfairness of urban children being denied access to the good schools of their choice; we will stop the unfairness of politicians giving taxpayer money to their friends' businesses; we will stop the unfairness of requiring union workers to contribute to politicians not of their choosing; we will stop the unfairness of government workers getting better pay and benefits than the taxpayers they serve; and we will stop the unfairness of one generation passing larger and larger debts on to the next. In the America I see, character and choices matter. And education, hard work, and living within our means are valued and rewarded. And poverty will be defeated, not with a government check, but with respect and achievement that is taught by parents, learned in school, and practiced in the workplace.
It's not just a matter of the candidates fighting for command of swing voters in the center, or "shoring up the base" on their left or their right. The complication comes from having to do both at once.
Romney has dropped his attacks on Obama's alleged "entitlement society" and on administration policies that supposedly push the country toward "European socialism," but he cannot win without addressing and engaging the convictions of a substantial conservative plurality in the electorate.
Obama, too, is walking a fine line as he seeks to firmly establish core support on the "empathetic" left while stressing the theme of "hard work and responsibility" so that everyone else can hear him. Obama must try to avoid painting himself into the "bleeding heart" corner even as he struggles to deliver relief to the poor and the truly disadvantaged, who made up just under a quarter of all his voters in 2008.

        
How to Get the Rich to Share the Marbles
        
Don't Mind the Gap
        
The Fight Over Inequality
        
The New Suburban Poverty
        
Other People's Suffering

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX LAW (85%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); MEDICARE (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); LIBERAL MEDIA (66%); CORPORATE TAX (61%) Empathy; Eric Cantor; fairness; Income Inequality; income taxes; Jonathan Haidt; Ravi Iyer; Cantor, Eric; Romney, Mitt; Elections; Income Tax; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%) Republican Party

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Cantor, Eric; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1048 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: New York Radio Merger Reflects Shifting Industry

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
On its surface, the merger last week of WRKS and WBLS, longtime rivals in the R&B radio format in New York, was business as usual for the broadcast industry. Two struggling competitors combined operations, and a deep-pocketed third party -- Disney -- came along to lease the leftover frequency.
But radio executives and analysts said the deal also reflected a broader trend in the business that has taken a toll on black and other minority stations. Since the introduction five years ago of a new technology for tracking audiences, many such broadcasters have experienced shrinking numbers, forcing radio companies to consolidate stations or switch to general-audience formats. 
Arbitron, the standard radio ratings service, has long had sample audiences record their listening in a diary. In 2007, it began using the Portable People Meter, or P.P.M., a small electronic device that tracks radio signals, offering broadcasters far more precise listening data.
The technology, now used in 48 markets, has already had significant effects -- for instance, increasing ratings for news and oldies stations. But many black stations have suffered under the new scheme, including WRKS, known as Kiss-FM, (98.7 FM) and WBLS (107.5 FM). While both were once ranked near the top of their desired demographic -- adults ages 25 to 54 -- since P.P.M.'s arrival they have slipped to between sixth and 11th place, said Jeff Smulyan, chief executive of WRKS's parent, Emmis Communications.
''The recent economic downturn has affected the profitability of everyone in radio,'' Mr. Smulyan wrote in an e-mail, ''but the decline has been much more pronounced in adult African-American targeted stations, largely because of the impact of P.P.M.''
The deal to merge Kiss-FM and WBLS involves several broadcasters. Emmis sold Kiss's intellectual property for $10 million to YMF Media, an investment group that is taking over WBLS. Disney, eager to expand its ESPN franchise, will lease Kiss's old frequency for 12 years, paying a fee that starts at $8.4 million and increases 3.5 percent each year. The changes were scheduled to take effect at midnight on Monday.
Political figures, broadcasters and other industry observers have expressed concern over how the loss of stations will affect minority communities.
''I am saddened that an important black voice is going silent in New York City, especially during this important election year,'' Tom Joyner, the syndicated talk-show host, said in a statement on Friday. ''Although social media currently gets a lot of credit and rightfully so, nothing can replace the role black radio plays in empowering, informing and entertaining black people.'' Mr. Joyner's show was on Kiss-FM in New York but will not be on WBLS.
Last year, Radio One, which owns 53 stations, mostly in so-called urban formats -- hip-hop, R&B, gospel and other genres popular with black audiences -- changed stations in Houston, Cincinnati and Columbus, Ohio, from black to more general-interest formats, largely because of P.P.M. results, said Alfred C. Liggins III, the chief executive.
In response to complaints that P.P.M. undercounted minority listeners, Arbitron has settled lawsuits in New York and California, and pledged to improve its methods to find diverse sample audiences. But the company also stood by the accuracy of its ratings.
''Arbitron's point of view is that P.P.M. is a more reliable and granular look at the marketplace,'' Thomas Mocarsky, a spokesman, said on Friday. ''Unlike the diary, which depended on recall, P.P.M. records what people are actually exposed to.''
Whether Arbitron's new system will result in more changes for black stations is unclear. Emmis still owns WQHT-FM, (97.1) known as Hot 97, a top hip-hop station in New York, and Mr. Smulyan, the chief executive, said it had no plans to sell. Paul Heine, a senior editor at the trade publication Inside Radio, noted that some urban stations had been thriving under the system.
''There are a number of cities where we have two well-performing urban stations,'' Mr. Heine said. ''I don't know if there's going to be a domino effect.''
The companies behind WRKS and WBLS have also had troubles beyond simple ratings. Inner City Broadcasting, the previous owner of WBLS, went bankrupt last year. (YMF, the company buying it, is a new investment group including Ron Burkle and Magic Johnson.) WRKS's revenue fell 32 percent in the last three years, according to a recent regulatory filing by Emmis Communications, and Mr. Smulyan said the station's profit had fallen 90 percent.
Emmis, which has sold off a number of stations as it struggles with a heavy debt load, said its deal in New York to sell Kiss-FM and lease 98.7 to Disney was worth at least $96 million, and that it would help stabilize its balance sheet.
Some broadcasters rued the loss of black stations and the reduction of services to black communities that would result, but said the change had simply become an inevitable part of business.
''The economics of this business have changed so drastically,'' said Mr. Liggins, of Radio One. ''It is a shame. But something's got to give.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Joyner's syndicated talk show, which was broadcast on WRKS, known as Kiss FM, will not be heard on WBLS. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA MCWILLIAM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); RADIO FORMATS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TRENDS (76%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); RANKINGS (51%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1049 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: In Vast Jungle, U.S. Is Aiding Hunt for Kony

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
OBO, Central African Republic -- It has got to be one of the oddest matchups in United States military history.
One hundred of America's elite Special Operations troops, aided by night vision scopes and satellite imagery, are helping African forces find a wig-wearing, gibberish-speaking fugitive rebel commander named Joseph Kony who has been hiding out in the jungle for years with a band of child soldiers and a harem of dozens of child brides.
No one knows exactly where Mr. Kony is, but here in Obo, at a remote forward operating post in the Central African Republic, Green Berets pore over maps and interview villagers, hopeful for a clue.
Their biggest challenge, they say, is Mr. Kony's turf, a vast expanse the size of California in the middle of Africa that is so rugged it renders much of the American gadgetry useless. Picture towering trees that blot out the sun, endless miles of elephant grass, and swirling brown rivers that coil like intestines and are infested with crocodiles; one of them recently ate a Ugandan member of the force. 
''This is not going to be an easy slog,'' said Ken Wright, a Navy SEAL captain and the commander of the joint American detachment assisting in the Kony hunt.
Still, in the past several months since they arrived, the Americans say Mr. Kony's army of around 300 fighters is showing cracks. No longer is Mr. Kony able to direct the massacres he directed just a few years ago when his fighters waylaid entire towns and hacked hundreds of people to death. His armed acolytes are breaking up into small, desperate groups, American officials say, and for the first time they are abandoning many of the women and children they had abducted who cannot keep up as they flee deeper into the bush.
The Americans emphasize that they have no interest in participating in actual combat -- ''This is strictly an advise and assist role,'' Captain Wright said, meant to strengthen the capabilities of African troops. Their deployment is emblematic of the Pentagon's new military strategy for Africa, unfurled earlier this year, in which Pentagon officials say they will develop ''innovative, low-cost, and small-footprint approaches to achieve our security objectives on the African continent.''
Already, American-paid contractors and intelligence agents are working quietly in Somalia. And small groups of American advisers have been training African armies for years, though it is not always clear how well this turns out. Just a few weeks ago, Mali's democratic government was ousted in a coup led by none other than an American-trained army captain.
Yet no other American military project in sub-Saharan Africa has generated the attention -- and the high expectations -- as the pursuit of Mr. Kony, partly thanks to a wildly popular video on Mr. Kony's notorious elusiveness and brutality, ''Kony 2012,'' that set YouTube records with tens of millions of hits in a matter of days. Gen. Carter F. Ham, the overall commander of American forces in Africa, has a ''Kony 2012'' poster tacked to his office door. As one American official put it: ''Let's be honest, there was some constituent pressure here. Did 'Kony 2012' have something to do with this? Absolutely.''
Mr. Kony started out in a northern Uganda village more than 25 years ago as a Catholic altar boy who spoke in tongues. People said he was a prophet. He went on to form a rebel force, the Lord's Resistance Army, bent on overthrowing Uganda's government and ruling the country with the Ten Commandments. Soon enough, though, Mr. Kony was breaking every one.
His fighters mowed down impoverished villagers, sawed off lips, and kidnapped thousands of children, brainwashing them for use as tiny killing machines. Mr. Kony often donned wigs and costumes, saying he was possessed by spirits including one named, ''Who Are You?'' In 2006, Ugandan troops pushed Mr. Kony out of Uganda into the lawless borderlands where the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Central African Republic and what is now South Sudan meet.
By this point, Uganda had become one of America's closest African allies, and when the United States was deeply worried about Somalia's becoming a terrorist sanctuary, Uganda was the first country to step forward with peacekeepers, scoring major Pentagon points.
In December 2008, the new American military command for Africa, known by the acronym Africom, helped plan an attack on Mr. Kony's camp in Congo, dispatching a team of military advisers to Uganda. But Mr. Kony escaped before the Ugandan helicopter gunships even took off -- apparently he had been tipped off. Worse, his army slaughtered hundreds of nearby villagers in revenge, leaving behind scorched huts and crushed skulls.
The American government continued running a semicovert logistics and intelligence operation to extend the Ugandan army's reach so it could chase Mr. Kony across the region. The United States has also pumped in more than $500 million in development aid to northern Uganda, turning a former battlefield into a vibrant piece of the Ugandan economy with new banks and hotels.
But many Americans, including the advocacy group Invisible Children, which produced the Kony2012 video, wanted more. They pressured Congress to pass the Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act in 2010, which paved the way for President Obama to send in the special forces late last year.
One Army Green Beret officer based in Obo -- Captain Greg, who under ground rules with visiting reporters did not give his last name -- said Sunday that he had spent the bulk of his time reviewing intelligence reports with Ugandan and Central African counterparts in an old brick house called the fusion center.
''Different things pop up all the time,'' he said. ''Everything from people asking us to fix their broken refrigerator to someone telling us about an attack that ends up not being the L.R.A. or even an attack.''
American officials believe Mr. Kony is hiding in an especially remote corner of the Central African Republic, though some Ugandan officials said he had moved into Sudan, with the blessing of the Sudanese government.
The Central African Republic would be an excellent place to disappear. Its national army is one of the region's smallest and weakest. Its terrain is primordially thick. And its infrastructure is shambolic.
Because there are so few roads and telephones, it often takes weeks for news of an attack to reach the fusion center. By the time the Green Berets sift the information and help dispatch the Ugandan hunting squads, Mr. Kony is gone. The Americans say they never go on patrols themselves.
United Nations officials say Mr. Kony's forces have stepped up their attacks since the Americans arrived, with more than 130 this year, though the attacks tend to be small, often with no one killed.
About a week ago, Mr. Kony's fighters struck a village in Central African Republic and made off with the very material he needs to sustain his movement -- several abducted children.
Kony has often said that all he needs to regenerate is 10 men.
This past week, Betty Bigombe, a Ugandan minister, revealed that she had nearly worked out a deal in 2006 for Mr. Kony, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity, to be exiled to Libya -- Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi had agreed to take him. But in the end, Ms. Bigombe said, Mr. Kony backed away, saying he did not trust Arabs.
As one American official put it: ''There's only one way this is going to end, and that's with Kony shot in the back, running for his life, deep in the forest.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Army master sergeant identified only as Eric, center, is among the American soldiers helping track down Joseph Kony.
 An aerial view of northern Uganda. Adye Sunday, far right, said she had been forced to be one of Mr. Kony's wives, but escaped. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN CURTIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (89%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (78%); CHILD SOLDIERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); COUPS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (96%); CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (93%); UGANDA (92%); SOMALIA (79%); MALI (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1050 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BREAKDOWN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4134 words

HEADLINE: Big Purses, Sore Horses, and Death

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE, WALT BOGDANICH, REBECCA R. RUIZ and GRIFFIN PALMER; Dara L. Miles contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As he trained for his first race, at Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens, the 3-year-old thoroughbred Wes Vegas galloped on the track most mornings and had two timed workouts. But his handlers also prepared him in another way: In the month before the race, records show, he received 10 intravenous injections of potent drugs for pain, one the day before he ran; two injections of a drug for joint disease; corticosteroid injections in his two front ankles; a sedative; and an ulcer drug.
For all the preparation, that first race, on March 3, turned out to be his last.
As he approached the first turn, Wes Vegas broke a leg and had to be euthanized. 
A week earlier, another horse, the 4-year-old Coronado Heights, who records show had ''early degenerative joint disease,'' suffered a fatal breakdown at Aqueduct after receiving 13 injections for pain and cartilage damage in the month before his race.
Since a casino opened at Aqueduct late last year, offering vastly richer prizes, 30 horses have died racing there, a 100 percent increase in the fatality rate over the same period the previous year. Like Wes Vegas and Coronado Heights, many had been injected repeatedly with pain medication in the weeks before their breakdowns, according to a review of veterinary records by The New York Times.
Pain medication during training is legal as long as it does not exceed certain levels on race day. But the prevalence of drugs is a graphic illustration of how the flood of casino cash has created powerful and dangerous incentives to run sore, tired or otherwise unfit horses in pursuit of that big score.
''If the public knew how many medications these horses were administered after entry time, I don't think they would tolerate it,'' said Dr. Rick Arthur, equine medical director of the California Horse Racing Board.
Amid the uproar over the Aqueduct death toll, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York ordered an investigation to ''ensure against needless injuries to horses and to riders.'' Experts are examining various factors -- not just drugs, but issues like track conditions and pre-race inspections.
But what is indisputable is that casinos opening at Aqueduct and a growing number of racetracks have recalibrated the age-old economic equations of the horse-racing game.
To survive amid a riot of new, technologically advanced gambling options, track owners have increasingly succumbed to the gambling industry's offer to sweeten racing purses with slot machine revenue. But if casinos promise to prop up a struggling sport, they can also erode the loyalty that owners and trainers feel toward their horses, turning them, in the words of Maggi Moss, a leading owner, into ''trading cards for people's greed.''
The casinos' impact is greatest at the sport's low end, the so-called claiming races, a world away from the bluegrass pageantry of Saturday's Kentucky Derby. In the claiming ranks -- where some of the cheapest horses fill starting gates at tracks like Aqueduct, Penn National, near Harrisburg, Pa., and Evangeline Downs in Louisiana -- the casino money has upset the traditional racetrack balance of risk and reward.
''It's strictly self-centered greed of not thinking about the horse but thinking about maybe I can get one more race out of him and get a piece of the game,'' said Dr. Tom David, until recently the chief veterinarian for the Louisiana Racing Commission.
To better protect the horses, some industry experts say, purses should be limited so the potential winnings in any race do not exceed the value of the horses running in it. That way, the incentive for the owner is to care for the horse over the long haul, rather than risking it for a single payday. A prominent veterinarians group, the American Association of Equine Practitioners, recommends that no purse exceed a horse's value by more than 50 percent.
Yet that recommendation is widely ignored, The Times found.
At Aqueduct, horses worth $7,500 -- at the lowest level of competition -- recently raced for a $40,000 purse, nearly four times the recommended maximum. Two of them broke down and had to be euthanized. Both had been given pain medication in the days leading up to the race. In all, 19 of the 30 Aqueduct deaths occurred in races where the veterinarians' standard was violated.
Nationwide, 57 percent of thoroughbred claiming races at casino tracks exceeded that 50 percent standard, and horses broke down or showed signs of injury at a 29 percent higher rate in those races, according to a Times analysis.
In a statement, the New York Racing Association said ''it would be inappropriate and irresponsible of The New York Times to speculate on the reasons for breakdowns and injuries'' before the governor's task force has finished its inquiry.
Big purses have destabilized the racetrack economy in another way. Every claiming race is essentially a marketplace, with all horses for sale at a fixed price. But the casino money has set off a frenzy of horse trading at Aqueduct, with owners eager to buy and also to sell to slake the surging demand. Since the casino opened late last fall, nearly 500 horses and $10.7 million have changed hands, more than double the previous year, records show.
Again, the incentive is to push horses, fit or not, out onto the track.
''If horses don't win, people just get rid of them,'' Ms. Moss said.
The turmoil at Aqueduct over the last six months caught many in the industry by surprise. But a cautionary tale played out two years before at Penn National, where nine horses belonging to a single owner died while racing, prompting a boycott by jockeys. State investigators discovered evidence of serious problems in the owner's operation: trainers and other employees injecting horses with illegal drugs and administering other illicit treatments at an off-track training center.
When the Hollywood Casino arrived in 2008, Penn National became part of a casino expansion that now encompasses more than a third of the nation's thoroughbred racetracks. Gambling companies, state budgets and some horse owners have benefited, but the spread of casinos has left many people wondering if in the long run, casino gambling is hurting racing and the horses themselves.
''In spite of what they say, and they are my friends whom I love dearly, they do not care about horse racing,'' William Koester, of the Ohio State Racing Commission, said recently of the casino industry. ''They care about gaming. That is their mission.''
Lame and Still Racing
Melodeeman, a 10-year-old thoroughbred, had earned a rest.
He raced gallantly for six owners. He set a track record at Aqueduct for the fastest five and a half furlongs and earned more than $250,000 in his career. He raced even after a broken leg was put back together with three stainless-steel screws.
But by the evening of Jan. 21, 2010, Melodeeman had hit the bottom of the racing world. As the temperature hovered near freezing at Penn National, he prepared to compete among the lowest quality thoroughbreds.
In a different time, Melodeeman might have skipped this race, or retired altogether. Not now. Not here. Profits from the track's casino had fattened the purse to $18,000, far more than the $4,000 for which each horse could be purchased, or claimed -- precisely the kind of cost disparity that prominent veterinarians had warned against.
Eager to get in on the action, three people filed claims to buy three horses in the race.
No one tried to buy Melodeeman.
According to one exercise rider who saw the horse well before the race, Melodeeman was clearly lame. But Melodeeman raced anyhow that evening.
Turning for home, his front legs buckled, sending his jockey, Angel Quinones, flying. Melodeeman had snapped his right cannon bone and was euthanized at the track, almost four years to the day after he set his Aqueduct record.
State regulators were suspicious. Other horses belonging to the same owner, Michael Gill, had been breaking down in large numbers, and jockeys were complaining.
A subsequent necropsy revealed that Melodeeman not only had degenerative joint disease in the lower part of his two front legs, but that his fatal fracture occurred next to the earlier break mended with three screws. The examiners were concerned enough to have snapped a color photograph of the screws.
A prohibited sedative, fluphenazine, was also found in Melodeeman's brain, according to records obtained by The Times. Fluphenazine can calm a horse that becomes agitated because of discomfort or injury, according to two veterinarians.
Melodeeman's fatal breakdown was not quickly forgotten by jockeys on the backside at Penn National. A revolt was brewing.
Jockeys Fight Back
Mr. Gill made his fortune in the mortgage brokerage business before becoming one of the nation's most successful -- and controversial -- thoroughbred owners. He was a winner of the Eclipse Award as the nation's outstanding owner, but tracks in several states denied him stable space because of brushes with regulators over his treatment of horses. He set up a training center in Chester County, Pa., giving him easy access to three casino tracks, among them Penn National.
Although the casino there does a steady business, the track itself seems almost an afterthought. It sits behind the parking garage, barely visible from the gambling floor. On many nights, the few racing fans who show up outside buy programs from a vending machine and beer at a single counter.
But there was no secret why Mr. Gill had made Penn National the hub of his operation: the hefty purses.
Now, Melodeeman's death threatened to upend it all.
The next morning, Thomas Clifton, a veteran jockey, complained to the state racing commission's office at Penn National that Mr. Gill's horses were unsafe. He had been making similar complaints for a month.
''The horses go perfectly sound right up to the second they snap their leg off,'' Mr. Clifton said. The following day he came back with a warning: ''If we have one more horse break down, we are going to have a major problem on our hands.''
That night, riding in the fifth race, Mr. Clifton heard a bone snap and saw another jockey, Ricky Frazier, vaulting off a horse named Laughing Moon. Mr. Clifton yanked his own mount, but they still went soaring over Laughing Moon.
Within minutes, Mr. Frazier was in an ambulance and a veterinarian was administering a lethal injection to Laughing Moon, the ninth Gill horse to die racing in 10 months.
That is when the jockeys decided to take a stand: They would not ride in any race with a Gill-owned horse.
Their boycott cast a harsh light on the Pennsylvania Racing Commission and Penn National Gaming, which owns the track.
''It wasn't the commission or the racetrack or anyone with any responsibility for horses and riders who took action,'' said George Strawbridge, a prominent breeder and owner. ''It was the jockeys who feared for their life. That's not a shame. That's a disgrace.''
Track officials and regulators had ample reason to question the integrity of Mr. Gill's operation well before the boycott.
Regulators did not have the authority to monitor the treatment of horses on Mr. Gill's ranch, but three months before the boycott, the commission and track security officers searched a van delivering Mr. Gill's Lion's Pride, who was scheduled to race that day. They found four syringes, and Lion's Pride tested positive for a corticosteroid used to treat joint inflammation.
Lion's Pride was not allowed to race that night. But on Dec. 18, 2009, after running barely a quarter of a mile, he suffered a fatal breakdown.
By then, an employee of Mr. Gill's ranch had already told state police investigators that horses were being injected with drugs on race day, which is illegal. Investigators later heard accounts of snake venom injections and other performance enhancing treatments on race day, according to records obtained by The Times.
Dr. Jerry Pack, a former veterinarian for the racing commission who now works for Penn National, told the police that he suspected Mr. Gill's horses received an illegal performance enhancing substance. He also said trainers were using shock wave therapy, which can mask injury. ''This is also dangerous to the welfare of the horse,'' he told investigators.
Suspicions were heightened by the backgrounds of some employees of Mr. Gill, including two trainers, Cole Norman and Darrel Delahoussaye.
Mr. Norman had been fined or suspended 30 times in four states for drugging horses. The authorities had accused him three times of administering an illegal ''milkshake'' -- a concoction of baking soda, sugar and electrolytes delivered through a tube down a horse's throat to combat fatigue by breaking up lactic acid. Mr. Norman was also incarcerated for killing a driver in a head-on collision while under the influence of prescription painkillers.
In 1984, Mr. Delahoussaye lost his Louisiana training license after a conviction for check fraud, and Ohio later suspended him for possessing syringes and drugs and for using a makeshift electric cattle prod on a horse. Mr. Gill himself had once been suspended from racing after syringes and needles were found in his barn at a New Hampshire racetrack.
A grand jury in Dauphin County, Pa., investigated reports of horse doping and other corrupt acts. But Mr. Delahoussaye was the only one charged, with doping. A plea agreement kept him out of jail -- and out of racing in Pennsylvania.
In the face of the boycott, the racing commission ejected Mr. Gill and his racing manager, Anthony Adamo, from Penn National. They filed a federal lawsuit, saying that they were expelled for no valid reason and without a hearing. A trial took place last week and a decision is expected soon.
Alan Pincus, a lawyer for the men, said that they have been unfairly tainted with ''all kinds of innuendo and lies for over two years,'' and that the testimony showed that their ejection ''was not based on any culpable wrongdoing.''
Mr. Gill said that he rarely visited Elk Creek Ranch, his Pennsylvania training center, and that he never instructed anyone to break racing rules.
Chris McErlean, vice president of racing at Penn National, said the investigation of Mr. Gill and the enforcement of racing rules was the responsibility of the state racing commission, which declined repeated requests for an interview.
Since the jockey boycott, change has come slowly at Penn National. The track began doing pre-race inspections of horses -- routine at most racetracks in North America -- only last October.
The track's owner has declined to seek accreditation or to contribute to a fund for jockey benefits.
In September, an injured filly had to wait more than an hour to be euthanized because Penn National had no licensed veterinarian on duty during morning training. The company said it was not the track's responsibility, though it is a requirement of accreditation.
''There's cost issues and there's problems we have with the process,'' Mr. McErlean said of accreditation. ''They are making racetracks solely responsible, presenting it as a racetrack-only issue. They don't accredit horsemen, or breeders.''
Bought and Sold
Aqueduct has never been the most glamorous track. The sound of pounding hooves is often drowned out by the roar of jets at nearby Kennedy International Airport. The bulk of its racing is conducted in the winter, when top owners move their horses to Florida to race.
Aqueduct is a neighborhood track for working-class horsemen, where low-level horses are bought and sold in claiming races, which account for nearly 70 percent of American racing.
In claiming races, horses are grouped by ability and price. In a $10,000 claiming race, for example, any horse can be ''claimed'' or bought for that price. The goal is to lure a group of evenly matched horses to attract bettors but also to ensure a level playing field. The deterrent to entering a high-caliber horse in a low-level claiming race is the risk of losing it for a pittance.
Aqueduct is a case study of how casinos have altered the economics of claiming races. Purses there have jumped by about $130,000 a day compared with the previous year. At the same time, crops of thoroughbreds nationwide have declined and, many experts say, so has their overall quality. The result, at Aqueduct and other casino tracks, is daily cards of low-level claiming races being run for higher purses and a spike in the claiming of horses by owners seeking a quick profit.
Among them was Bojan, a valuable commodity, but a disposable one, too.
Bojan possessed enough good looks and pedigree to fetch $107,000 at a yearling sale in Kentucky in 2008. Now it was April 6, 2012 -- Good Friday -- and just as Bojan was about to run in the first race at Aqueduct, a trainer named Juan Serey dropped a slip of paper into a box in the racing office, agreeing to pay $10,000 for him on behalf of an owner who employed him. But the horse would not be his until after the race.
Mr. Serey, who has been the leading trainer at Aqueduct, knew the horse had a fragile tendon and puffy ankles. It was why Bojan kept coming up for sale at the bottom of the claiming ladder, why he had changed hands twice in two months.
Even so, Bojan had continued to prove a sound investment. He had earned more than $19,000 for one owner and trainer, Linda Rice, in the span of 16 days, and his current co-owner and trainer, David Jacobson, had owned Bojan for a single race -- a victory worth $17,400.
Mr. Serey decided to roll the dice.
''Everybody just wants a horse, and they want him now to race in 10 days,'' he said. ''I want a horse today and I don't want it tomorrow. I'm a businessman.''
Turning for home, Bojan led the field and it looked like Mr. Serey had chosen well. Suddenly, however, the horse faltered and his jockey stood up in the saddle. They hobbled home, finishing fourth. Moments later Bojan was boarding a horse ambulance.
''They tried to roll him and win the race and get the money,'' Mr. Serey said of Bojan's owners.
Indeed, the owners walked away with the $1,150 fourth-place check.
Mr. Serey had no regrets. ''You've got to take the good ones and the bad ones,'' he said, adding, ''If somebody takes my bad horses, it's good.''
Since the casino opened at the end of October, Aqueduct has seen a sharp rise in the number of horses injured and killed. Horses have broken down or shown signs of injury at Aqueduct at a rate of 10.2 per thousand starts, or more than double the national rate of 5.0 per thousand starts for thoroughbred racing, according to a Times analysis.
Similar trends are evident at some tracks around the country. The five casino tracks in New Mexico have rates for thoroughbred breakdowns that are double the national average, with Ruidoso Downs and Zia Park topping the list with 12.5 and 12.1, respectively, per thousand starts.
Coleman Lloyd, the racing secretary at Evangeline Downs Racetrack and Casino in Louisiana, told the state racing commission that the only conclusion that can be drawn from Evangeline's high fatality rate was it ''runs more races and cheaper horses,'' according to the minutes of an Aug. 30, 2010, meeting.
Joe Gorajec, executive director of the Indiana Horse Racing Commission, said his state capped the number of racing days at 75 and mandated that low-level claiming races make up only 30 percent of the program.
''If you had just what I would call obscene money on these lower-level horses, it would affect the judgment of those horsemen,'' he said.
Beyond the numbers, veterinary records obtained by The Times on Aqueduct's 30 horse deaths show in raw terms how pain medication is used in racing.
In the week leading to a $7,500 claiming race with a $40,000 purse in early March, Big Polk a Dot's right front ankle was injected with powerful cortisone, his feed was laced with a potent anti-inflammatory and he was shot with a painkiller, records show.
One of his rivals, Almighty Silver, got his left and right lower hocks injected with a painkiller and his front ankles with synthetic joint fluid. He also got an injection to dilate his airway, records show.
Big Polk a Dot ran barely an eighth of a mile before his right front cannon bone snapped and he was euthanized. Almighty Silver managed to finish third, despite a fractured right front leg.
While his effort earned $4,000 for his owner, Almighty Silver was taken by ambulance to Aqueduct's backside where he, too, was put out of his misery.
These horses got little protection from state regulators or the racetrack. Even as the death toll was rising, necropsies were not performed to determine if pre-existing injuries had contributed to the fatal breakdowns. Nor were toxicology exams conducted.
In March, days after Governor Cuomo announced he would appoint a task force to investigate the fatalities, New York Racing Association veterinarians became more aggressive in keeping unfit horses out of the starting gate, which Dr. Anthony Verderosa, its chief examining veterinarian, called ''a coincidence.''
The State Racing and Wagering Board announced an emergency rule voiding a claim if a horse had to be euthanized on the track. Among the 30 dead horses, 7 had been claimed in the race in which they had broken down.
But in the ethic of horse traders -- in which you are just as likely to sell a damaged horse as buy one -- not everyone believed that prohibiting the claiming of dead horses was a good idea.
''This is a game,'' Mr. Serey said, ''and we have to know how to play.''
A Fight for a Horse
Horses have never been a game to Earle Mack. A real estate developer, philanthropist and former ambassador to Finland, Mr. Mack began breeding and racing thoroughbreds more than 50 years ago. He spent seven years in the 1980s as chairman of the New York State Racing Commission.
Over the past nine months, Mr. Mack has had a frustrating, front-row seat for how horses are treated in the casino era of horse racing. In 2008, he brought a beautifully bred horse from Argentina named Star Plus to the United States. Star Plus won one race and took second in another. Although minor injuries sidelined him in 2009, he won a race the following year. But on March 28, 2010, at Gulfstream Park, he suffered a career-ending ankle injury. The veterinarian recommended he never be ridden again.
Mr. Mack retired Star Plus to a farm in Florida. But last summer, Mr. Mack said he sold the horse for just $1,000, after the new owners agreed not to race him again.
Instead, the new owners, George Iacovacci and Kelly Spanabel, began training Star Plus. Records show that Mr. Iacovacci, an owner-trainer, and Ms. Spanabel, a jockey, eke out a living at casino racetracks, which often pay purse money through last place. Last year, for example, horses Mr. Iacovacci owned made more than $90,000, despite winning only five times.
When Mr. Mack found out Star Plus was training, he alerted racing officials and offered to buy him back. The couple refused. Last July, they ran Star Plus in Michigan and, in November, in two races at West Virginia's Mountaineer Park. He finished last all three times.
On Jan. 9, after discovering Star Plus was entered to run two days later at Charles Town, Mr. Mack faxed a letter to the West Virginia Racing Commission.
''As you are undoubtedly aware,'' he wrote, ''with an impaired ankle this horse is a danger to himself, his rider and everyone on any track where he is allowed to work and race.'' Darcy Scudera, who cares for Mr. Mack's horses in Florida, also contacted West Virginia officials, but was told there was nothing they could do.
Three weeks later, Mr. Mack wrote to the Pennsylvania Horse Racing Commission, but he said he never heard back.
On Jan. 28, Star Plus was again outclassed by six other horses, clomping home 43 1/4 lengths behind. Even so, he earned his owners $1,000.
''This is clearly abuse, and anyone interested in animals should have stopped it,'' Mr. Mack said. ''But these tracks need full fields and have got to fill races. That's why they pay $1,000 for last place.''
Last month, after the West Virginia attorney general's office persuaded state racing officials to hear the case, Mr. Iacovacci and Ms. Spanabel sold the horse back to Mr. Mack for $7,000. Ms. Spanabel said that she and Mr. Iacovacci never agreed to retire Star Plus, and that they decided to sell the horse back when it became clear he was not going to be allowed to compete.
Star Plus is now retired in Kentucky.
''These horses have fought so hard for us and given us so many great thrills and happiness,'' Mr. Mack said. ''Don't they deserve to be cared for? Don't they deserve better than what we're giving them?''
Breakdown: Articles in this series are examining persistent problems in America's horse racing industry. The first article, on March 25, explored how the prevalence of drugs and gaps in regulation have contributed to a breakdown rate that remains significantly higher than in most of the world.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Since a casino opened at Aqueduct in Queens last fall, 30 horses have died on its track. High purses are a draw for owners. (A1)
HIGH STAKES: Bojan, not pictured, a 5-year-old thoroughbred who broke down at Aqueduct this month, earned more than $19,000 in 16 days for one of his owners, Linda Rice, bottom center.
'THIS IS A GAME': Juan Serey, right, a trainer, claimed Bojan for $10,000 just before his last race at Aqueduct. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BUNDY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
A STRUGGLING SPORT: A race this month at Penn National Race Course, a casino track in Pennsylvania. The track sits behind a parking garage, and attendees buy programs from a vending machine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BOYCOTT SUBJECT: Michael Gill, a successful, and controversial, owner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HORSEPHOTOS.COM/NTRA)
Necropsy photo showing three screws at the site of the injury. (A13) CHARTS: One Horse, One Week of Injections: Coronado Heights, a 4-year-old thoroughbred who received a diagnosis of early degenerative joint disease, broke down and was euthanized on the track at Aqueduct on Feb. 25. Below, an illustration of the drugs and dosages given to Coronado Heights the week before he broke down. (A12)
 In Melodeeman, One Horse's Rise and Fall: Melodeeman, a thoroughbred, raced for six years, through surgery, six owners and 47 races. He broke down and was euthanized on the track on Jan. 21, 2010. (Source: Equibase) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); GAMING (89%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); HORSE RACING (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); BONE FRACTURES (76%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (75%); STEROIDS (71%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (56%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1051 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Final Farewells at a Legendary Radio Station

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
One worker went around collecting autographs on a T-shirt. Another solemnly handed thank-you notes sealed in stationery envelopes to some of the disc jockeys. Other employees smiled from behind the microphones, posing for cameras and cellphones.
Yet most of the employees of WKRS, or KISS-FM, who packed its Lower Manhattan studio on Friday soon after learning that the station was going off the air seemed content to bob their heads to ''The Second Time Around,'' an upbeat love song by Shalamar, one final time. 
''The long, fun journey is over,'' the news director, Bob Slade, said.
The end came suddenly and shockingly. On Thursday, the station's owner, Emmis Communications, announced that its 98.7-FM frequency had been leased to ESPN, which would begin broadcasting at midnight on Sunday. That left just a few days to collectively mourn the passing of one of the city's most prominent African-American radio stations.
The late-1970s block party atmosphere of Friday's gathering could not obscure the worries that many employees had about the future. Some had already been told that they were losing their jobs.
''I came to pay my respects today, if you will,'' said Terrence Battle, 36, a manager who was laid off after six years at the station. ''It's really sad.''
The KISS brand has been bought by YMF Media, the owner of its rival, WBLS, 107.5-FM. The KISS D.J.'s Shaila Scott and Lenny Green have been offered jobs at WBLS; two syndicated D.J.'s, Tom Joyner and Michael Baisden, have not, according to station executives.
Still others said they would not know their fates until meeting with YMF executives this week. On Friday, another laid-off employee, Lamarr Baillou, who worked in promotions, passed around a T-shirt that was covered in hand-scrawled messages, like a high school yearbook.
One send-off read, ''God bless you + keep you, Much love, Toya'' from Toya Beasley, another KISS D.J.
Later, Chuck Chillout, the D.J. who helped ignite Run-DMC's career by playing the group's records three decades ago on KISS, sidled up to a mike with his baseball hat turned backward and bid a terse farewell. ''A big shout to the Bronx,'' he said.
Next to him stood Jeff Foxx, another WBLS D.J. who had been asked to help smooth the transition as KISS, or what was left of it, migrated to BLS. His program was simulcast on KISS on Thursday, and on Friday he came to the station to pinch hit.
Mr. Foxx acknowledged that many listeners tuning in on Friday were shocked to hear his voice at a competitor's station. ''The first thing I said was, 'You are not losing your mind,' '' Mr. Foxx joked.
Many of the younger employees on hand on Friday, and many listeners, too, said that they had grown up with KISS, which made its debut on Aug. 1, 1981, on the same day as MTV, though with a playlist that emphasized disco, R&B and rap, rather than rock. The first song played, from KISS's original studios at 1440 Broadway, was Shalamar's ''Make That Move,'' said Mr. Slade, who had been with the station since the beginning.
But in 1994, after Emmis bought KISS, it began to change its sound. Rap was relegated to WQHT, or 97.1-FM, which is known as Hot 97.
KISS was reinvented as a classic soul and R&B station for an older audience, with playlists that included Marvin Gaye, the Jacksons, Prince and Luther Vandross. Around the same time, well-known performers like Isaac Hayes, Ashford and Simpson and Roberta Flack took to the microphones with their own shows.
The station, which long held the No. 1 spot in its market but has struggled in recent years, also helped start the career of Wendy Williams, now a television talk show host.
Music aside, the station also played a role in educating the city's African-American community about issues like racial profiling, courtesy of its Sunday talk shows, which are unlikely to survive, their hosts said.
''It's not about losing the money. It's about losing the influence on the black mind and the black thought process,'' said Peter Noel, 54, a former reporter for The Village Voice who has been with KISS since 2001 and was a host of the program ''Week in Review.''
''It really hurts you, man,'' Mr. Noel said, as he patted his heart with his right hand.
In Harlem, the city's historic African-American heart, the news of the station's demise was met with disappointment. Wayne Jackson, 40, who was shaving a man's head at Jimmy's Unisex Salon on Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard near West 131st Street, complained that KISS listeners had not been given a chance to fight for its survival. ''It's terrible,'' he said.
On Friday, Mr. Foxx thanked Fatiyn Muhammad, 50, a KISS executive producer, as he made his way out of the studio.
''You sleep well tonight,'' Mr. Foxx called to him, as Candi Staton's ''Young Hearts Run Free'' soared in the background. ''You're good. You're really good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The KISS D.J. Chuck Chillout, center, and Jeff Foxx, from rival WBLS, sharing a mike on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); LAYOFFS (58%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1052 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart's U.S. Expansion Plans Complicated by Bribery Scandal

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In Los Angeles, a Wal-Mart building permit is getting a once-over. In New York, the City Council is investigating a possible land deal with the retailer's developer in Brooklyn. A state senator in California is pushing for a formal audit of a proposed Wal-Mart in San Diego. And in Boston and its suburbs, residents are pressuring politicians to disclose whether they have received contributions from the company.
All of it in the past week.
Wal-Mart has worked hard in recent years to polish its reputation and give elected officials, community groups and shoppers a reason to say yes to their stores, especially as it pushes aggressively into big -- and historically hostile -- cities. Now, the revelation of a bribery scandal involving the retailer's Mexican subsidiary is giving critics a new reason to say no. 
''Overnight, the environment has shifted in terms of Wal-Mart's strategy in big cities, in winning over local politicians,'' said Dorian T. Warren, a political science professor at Columbia who is writing a book about Wal-Mart's efforts to expand into Chicago and Los Angeles.
The New York Times disclosed last week that Wal-Mart had found credible evidence that its Mexican subsidiary -- the retailer's biggest foreign operation, which opened 431 stores last year -- had paid bribes and that an internal inquiry into the matter had been suppressed at corporate headquarters in Arkansas. The Mexican government has begun investigations into the retailer's dealings with local officials.
Felipe Calderon, the Mexican president, said last week that he was ''indignant'' about the company's behavior, and some elected officials across the United States joined the chorus of outrage. In other countries where Wal-Mart operates, including China and India, the reaction was slower, but analysts said they expected the company to face significant new obstacles.
Wal-Mart last week took several steps intended to demonstrate it was serious about getting to the bottom of the bribery scandal -- and preventing anything like it happening again -- but the damage from the revelations could be problematic, analysts said.
''It gives more power to critics, and that might prove to be the biggest negative of all,'' said David Strasser, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott.
In the United States, Wal-Mart has largely exhausted places in suburban and rural areas to build new stores, and is focusing on many of the nation's biggest cities. That means a lot of red tape for approvals. In the last few years, Wal-Mart has smoothed the way with donations to politicians and local nonprofit organizations, and arguments that it helps economic growth and provides healthy groceries.
Steven Restivo, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said the bribery investigation would not affect those expansion plans. ''We remain committed to opening stores all across the U.S., including large cities,'' he said.
There has always been opposition to the new stores -- for years, small store owners, for example, complained they would be put out of business by Wal-Mart's low prices -- but the scandal in Mexico has provided opponents with new ammunition.
Union leaders, who have been particularly critical of Wal-Mart's workplace practices, called last week for the resignation of the chairman, S. Robson Walton, and the chief executive, Michael T. Duke. ''The corruption scandal and reported cover-up exposed an unacceptable failure of leadership within Wal-Mart,'' said Joe Hansen, president of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
Most of the stepped-up opposition, however, has been directed at blocking specific expansion plans.
In New York, City Councilman Erik Dilan said the housing and buildings committee that he heads will conduct an investigation into a land-use transfer at a Brooklyn site Wal-Mart has been considering. The New York state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, was already reviewing a contract for the site, a vacant 14-acre lot in East New York owned by the state.
In Los Angeles, opponents of a Wal-Mart site in Chinatown were using the bribery scandal to supplement an appeal they have filed that would rescind the project's building permit.
In the Boston area, Wal-Mart is eyeing three possible stores, in Somerville and Watertown and in the Roxbury neighborhood. Leaders of the local anti-Wal-Mart coalition are now demanding that the company publicly identify its financial contributions to elected officials, local organizations and community leaders.
This pressure on politicians, in particular, to respond to the suggestion Wal-Mart is buying them off could spread to other cities, said Professor Warren of Columbia.
''There definitely is a pattern of giving campaign contributions to politicians who support what they want,'' he said of Wal-Mart. But because the Mexican accusations include bribing local officials, ''when you take that to the context of New York or Los Angeles, it's going to make it harder for politicians to accept campaign contributions from Wal-Mart.''
Mr. Restivo, the Wal-Mart spokesman, said the company would not change its pattern of giving to politicians and nonprofits in areas where it wants to open. In New York, for instance, its foundation has given more than $13 million to nonprofits since 2007, and the company gave almost $200,000 to Republican political committees in 2011.
''We are proud of the work our foundation has done,'' he said, and ''we support those who stand for issues that are important to our customers, associates and shareholders in the areas where we do business. When we make political contributions, we do so in an ethical, legal and transparent way.''
For Wal-Mart, the new obstacles come after a long and concerted battle to win over its critics.
For years, labor unions said it did not pay fair wages. Environmentalists said it was a polluter. And female employees, claiming discrimination, were locked in a lawsuit against the company.
And city after city denied Wal-Mart entry.
About seven years ago, as Wall Street analysts began to refer to the negative media coverage of the company as ''headline risk,'' the stock price fell and Wal-Mart decided it needed to burnish its image.
H. Lee Scott Jr., a Wal-Mart board member who was then Wal-Mart's chief executive, made a public argument that better business practices would help the company.
With the help of Leslie Dach, a former adviser to President Clinton hired in 2006 to handle external relations, Mr. Scott and other executives met with activists to improve Wal-Mart's labor and health care records, to outline an aggressive energy conservation plan, to position Wal-Mart as a company that was bringing fresh, affordable food to underserved areas and to develop initiatives to help promote female workers.
The company's fiercest critics doubted the efforts, saying they were public-relations moves with little substance, but at least in some circles, Wal-Mart was seen as a better corporate citizen.
That helped smooth over opposition to new stores in some cities. Wal-Mart will soon open its sixth store in Chicago, has two additional sites approved in Los Angeles, is building two in San Diego, and has six planned in Washington.
What was not previously known until the Times report on the bribery scandal is that at about the same time Mr. Scott began the offensive to improve Wal-Mart's image in the United States, he also rebuked the company's internal bribery investigation in Mexico for being overly aggressive. The investigation was soon dropped.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mexican government has begun investigations into a Wal-Mart subsidiary's dealings with local officials. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI CORTEZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 A protest last week at City Hall against Wal-Mart's plans to open a store in New York City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BRIBERY (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCANDALS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (85%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SUBURBS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); EVIDENCE (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1053 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 854 words

PERSON: Ernest Callenbach 

HEADLINE: Ernest Callenbach, 'Ecotopia' Author, Dies at 83

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Ernest Callenbach, the author of the 1975 novel ''Ecotopia,'' the tale of an awakening paradise in the Pacific Northwest that developed a cult following as a harbinger of the environmental movement, died on April 16 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 83.
The cause was cancer, said his wife, Christine Leefeldt. 
Written in the throes of the Vietnam War, ''Ecotopia'' tells of a secessionist nation -- carved from what was once Oregon, Washington and Northern California -- that by 1999 has evolved toward a ''stable state'' of bioregionalism, in which each territory cultivates its distinct ecological character.
Mr. Callenbach, the founding editor of Film Quarterly, originally published the novel himself after 25 publishing houses had rejected the manuscript. It has now sold nearly one million copies and been translated into a dozen languages, most recently Chinese. Its readership has included hippies and New Agers, environmental activists and college and high school science students, as well as evangelical Christians increasingly concerned about the global environment. It was reprinted by Bantam Books in 1977, two years after Bantam rejected it, asserting, Mr. Callenbach recalled, that ''the ecological fad is over.''
The novel is told through the accounts of a newspaper reporter who is sent to Ecotopia two decades after it seceded from an economically collapsing United States. Ecotopians realized just in time, the reporter writes, that ''financial panic could be turned to advantage if the new nation could be organized to devote its real resources of energy, knowledge, skills and materials to the basic necessities of survival.''
The book describes a society in which recycling is a way of life, gas-powered cars are replaced by electric cars (although most people walk or commute on high-speed magnetic-levitation trains) and bicycles are placed in public spaces to be borrowed at will. In Ecotopia, solar energy is commonplace, organic food is locally grown and, instead of petrochemical fertilizers, processed sewage is used to cultivate crops.
Mr. Callenbach mixed his communal change-or-perish message with the free-love attitudes of the 1960s and '70s. Ecotopian couples are ''generally monogamous,'' the reporter writes, ''except for four holidays each year, at the solstices and equinoxes, when sexual promiscuity is widespread.'' Marijuana is legal.
While long considered a cult novel, ''Ecotopia'' gained recognition for addressing issues that have since come to the fore as the environmental movement has grown.
''People may look at it and say, 'These are familiar ideas,' '' Scott Slovic, a professor of environmental literature at the University of Nevada, Reno, told The New York Times in 2008, ''not even quite realizing that Callenbach launched much of our thinking about these things.''
''We've absorbed it,'' he added, ''through osmosis.''
The book, Mr. Callenbach told The San Diego Union-Tribune in 1989, ''does seem to offer at least some people a sense of hope that we can work through the messes we have gotten our society into and actually arrive at some kind of decent way to inhabit our precious little planet.''
That hope was instilled in him while growing up in rural Boalsburg, Pa., where his father, a professor of poultry science at Pennsylvania State University, raised chickens. Ernest William Callenbach -- known since he was a baby as Chick -- was born on April 3, 1929, one of three sons of Margaret and Ernest Callenbach Sr. The rural lifestyle, he told The Chicago Tribune in 1990, meant that ''everything was recycled because no one was there to carry it away.''
The environment was not his first interest. Mr. Callenbach majored in English at the University of Chicago, receiving a bachelor's degree there in 1949 and a master's in 1953. Two years later, after studying at the Sorbonne in Paris and often watching four movies a day, he was hired as an assistant editor for the University of California Press.
He founded Film Quarterly in 1958 and edited it for 33 years. He also edited books on film for the university. He began focusing on ecological concerns in the early 1970s. In addition to ''Ecotopia,'' he wrote several books on protecting the environment, including ''Living Cheaply With Style'' (1977).
He practiced what he preached, his wife said. He grew organic fruits and vegetables in his backyard, which he had landscaped with drought-tolerant plants to conserve water, and he installed a device called a Kill-a-Watt in his home to monitor power usage.
Besides Ms. Leefeldt, whom he married in 1978, Mr. Callenbach is survived by a son, Hans; a daughter, Joanna Callenbach; two brothers, Tony and Tim; and five grandchildren.
Mr. Callenbach often took his message to the classroom. On a visit to La Jolla High School in San Diego in 1989, students told him that they wanted to live in a society like the one he had imagined, The Union-Tribune reported. They could, he replied, if they and others of their generation were committed to it. ''If you don't save us, nobody will,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ernest Callenbach told of a land of free bikes and free love. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); CANNABIS (68%); PETROCHEMICALS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); RELIGION (67%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); MAGNETIC LEVITATION (63%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (62%); ORGANIC FOODS (61%); FERTILIZERS (61%); CANCER (57%); VIETNAM WAR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); RENO, NV, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

TITLE: Ecotopia (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1054 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Breakfast in the Classroom

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Hiccup in Most Important Meal'' (front page, April 20): 
Between 2008 and 2010, a quarter of New York City children lived in homes that lacked sufficient access to food. For the few among these children lucky enough to be in classrooms with the Breakfast in the Classroom program, it offered more than just needed food, free of cost or stigma. The program also provided these children with the fuel they needed to remain engaged in and focused on their academics, as well as the chance each day to share a meal and a learning opportunity with their peers.
While concerns about childhood obesity should not be ignored, little data exists about the caloric and nutritional content of the foods that children eat each morning, and more study is needed. In a forthcoming report, we recommend such research, but strongly support expansion of this valuable program and increased outreach to educate and involve parents in their children's breakfasts, both at home and at school.
The critical opportunity that in-classroom breakfast presents to improve child nutrition and combat child hunger must not be squandered.
LOUISE FELD New York, April 20, 2012
The writer is policy associate for food and economic security for the Citizens' Committee for Children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD SECURITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); NUTRITION (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); OBESITY (72%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE FOR CHILDREN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1055 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: With No Revenue, An Illusion of Value

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON. 
E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The gears of Silicon Valley continue to mesh and turn because of money, not necessarily technological innovations. And there are certain things about that money machine that denizens of the Valley would rather keep quiet.
First, they'll never acknowledge the possibility of a bubble. ''Bubble? Ha!'' venture capitalists often tell me. ''Silly reporter, there is no bubble.''
O.K., I get this spin. It makes sense from an investor's point of view. Acknowledging any possibility that tech companies aren't worth what you say they are worth would be followed by the sound of a giant pop, and the money and investments would dry up. The machine could grind to a halt. 
Yet an even more bizarre activity in the Valley than shushing the talk of a bubble is how some start-ups are advised by investors not to make money. This concept may sound ridiculous from a business standpoint, but for investors, it fuels the get-richer-quicker mentality that exists here.
''It serves the interest of the investors who can come up with whatever valuation they want when there are no revenues,'' explained Paul Kedrosky, a venture investor and entrepreneur. ''Once there is no revenue, there is no science, and it all just becomes finger in the wind valuations.''
When small start-ups I've spoken with do make money, they often find it difficult to recruit additional investment because most venture capitalists - and often the entrepreneurs they finance - are not interested in building viable long-term businesses. Rather, they're interested in pumping up enough hype and valuation to find a quick exit through an acquisition at an eye-popping premium.
Getting acquired while producing no revenue is like performing a card trick without the deck of cards: the magician simply explains how magical the trick is, never actually showing it. (And we are supposed to step back in sheer awe.)
For start-ups, fewer numbers in the equation mean a projected valuation can be plucked out of thin air.
Look how well this worked for Instagram, which had zero in revenue and was bought for $1 billion.
Although most companies are not acquired for 10 figures, there have been dozens of multimillion-dollar acquisitions of start-ups that make no money whatsoever. The acquisitions of YouTube, FriendFeed, Zite, Hot Potato, Beluga, GroupMe, TweetDeck and Dodgeball are just a few samples involving companies with little to no revenue.
The term often used behind closed doors with this no-revenue formula is mark-to-mystery. This is a play on the common term for a more logical investment practice called mark-to-market, which is used to create a realistic appraisal of a company's financial assets.
''V.C.'s can create this mark-to-mystery valuation because as long as there are no numbers, I can have whatever mark I want for an external valuation of a start-up,'' Mr. Kedrosky said.
So why does the lunacy of building companies with no revenue or business model work?
Jeffrey Pfeffer, a professor at Stanford's Graduate School of Business, used that dirty word that investors scoff at: bubble.
Professor Pfeffer said that through ''the hideous recession'' that America has suffered in the last several years, the Valley has applied increasingly incoherent valuations to companies.
''This is 1999 all over again, but this time, it's gotten worse,'' he said, referring to the last technology bubble to burst. ''We're back to companies throwing around funny money. The economic values don't add up.''
He added: ''These companies are simply being founded to be bought. With the exception of a select few, Silicon Valley has spawned no real companies over the past decade. Even now, as the value of eyeballs has gone down, people are buying concepts, not companies.''
Indeed, this madness was invented in the late '90s and helped perpetuate the first dot-com crisis. ''Mark-to-mystery was developed as a large part of the last bubble, but it's gotten a lot worse this time around,'' Mr. Kedrosky said.
When this next bubble pops - and it will pop - the idea to make no money can finally pop, too. Then investors can start working with companies to build businesses that have long-term financial goals, instead of just building a short-term mystery.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1056 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: In China, Foreign Films Meet Powerful Gatekeeper

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY and DAVID BARBOZA; Michael Cieply reported from Los Angeles, and David Barboza from Beijing. Reporting was contributed by Brooks Barnes from Los Angeles, Edward Wyatt from Washington, and Edward Wong and Jonathan Landreth from Beijing. Gu Huini contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Any foreign movie knocking on China's door must pass through powerful gatekeepers -- the China Film Group and its chief executive, Han Sanping.
The China Film Group functions as the Chinese government's guardian of a film market that recently shot past Japan's to become the world's second-largest in box-office receipts behind the United States. On a broad array of business dealings -- censorship, distribution and co-productions, among others -- it is the conduit for foreign moviemakers hoping to make or distribute films in China.
But Mr. Han and his group are also supervising a trade route that is suddenly under close watch by regulators in Washington, after reports last week that officials in the United States are examining whether American film companies have violated domestic law by making illegal payments to officials in China.
In March, the Securities and Exchange Commission wrote to major film companies and smaller competitors -- including Walt Disney, 20th Century Fox and DreamWorks Animation -- requesting information about their business practices in China, according to people with knowledge of the investigation, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the matter could end up in court. 
The investigation was set off by a whistle-blower, one of the people said. It is not known specifically which American business dealings with China are under investigation, but this person said the Hollywood companies were told to freeze all files, e-mails and other data related to getting films made or distributed in China. Several people briefed on the letters described some aspects of them, but all spoke on condition of anonymity because of confidentiality strictures.
While the letters are said to include no specific reference to China Film, executives scrambling to comply with the request are preparing as if their dealings with the group are part of the inquiry because of its all-important role in getting films made in China, according to executives based in the United States and in China.
The S.E.C. inquiry, which would have direct legal consequences only for companies with an American presence, is certain to make Hollywood studios that do business in China even more wary of possible missteps.
It has also focused fresh attention on the official Chinese apparatus for making and distributing films, beginning with the State Administration of Radio Film and Television and extending to the China Film Group, a state-controlled entity without whose support a foreign film is not allowed to enter China.
''It's the equivalent of Universal, Sony, the M.P.A.A. and Regal all tied up in one,'' said an American producer who has done business extensively in China. His description compared the China Film Group to a pair of major studios, the Motion Picture Association of America trade group, and America's largest theater chain, Regal Entertainment Group, but with the added authority of a government franchise.
In China film circles, Mr. Han's name requires little explanation: He is called ''Master Han'' or ''the godfather of the Chinese movie industry.''
He had a role in directing ''The Founding of a Republic,'' and ''Beginning of the Great Revival,'' a pair of patriotic Chinese epics about Mao and the founding of the Communist Party.
That role comes atop producing credits on more than four dozen movies, most of them Chinese, but at least two -- ''The Karate Kid,'' from Sony Pictures Entertainment, and ''Mission: Impossible III'' -- that were made by Hollywood studios for global markets with involvement by the China Film Group.
In person, Mr. Han, who speaks little or no English, can nevertheless come across as an almost stereotypical Hollywood producer, an acquaintance said. He is demonstrative and colorfully expressive when speaking, and appears eager to befriend and be seen with Western movie stars, the acquaintance said.
Spokesmen for Sony and Paramount declined to discuss the dealings by their companies with Mr. Han. One person briefed on ''The Karate Kid,'' which was released in 2010, said the China Film Group was entitled to designate an executive producer in return for its financial contribution to the film -- about $5 million of a $40 million budget -- and chose Mr. Han in his role as chief of the film group. Spokesmen for all of the major studios and DreamWorks Animation declined to discuss the current investigation, or did not respond to queries.
In a telephone interview Saturday, Mr. Han said he was unaware of the S.E.C. investigation. Asked whether he had ever seen evidence of improper payments involving American companies, he said through a translator: ''How would I know about this? I don't even have a clue.''
Separately, Yuan Wenqiang, the general manager of the China Film Group's import-export unit, said the group nature of film distribution decisions in China left ''little room'' for bribery.
Mr. Han said his group assisted in the filming of ''Mission: Impossible III'' in China, but did not back it as a co-production. ''My work is not only going through the administrative process, but also a substantial amount of groundwork to make sure the shooting could go smoothly inside China,'' he said. ''As the president of C.F.G., I have this responsibility.''
It was not so long ago that film in China was a medium largely for propaganda. But in recent years moviemaking has opened up to outside influence, and now includes what for China are newer genres like romantic comedy.
As China's central planners try to steer the economy toward consumerism from manufacturing, they are trying to double the share contributed to the economy by filmed entertainment and other media in the next five years. Movies are seen as an essential component of Beijing's plan to drive consumer spending into the nation's vast interior.
Hollywood has been keen to further expand in this growing market. In February, high level discussions between the United States and China produced an agreement granting American studios the right to release more films each year in China, and to keep a greater percentage of the box-office revenue. DreamWorks Animation is building a studio in Shanghai, and Disney's Marvel Entertainment unit plans to shoot part of ''Iron Man 3'' in China with financing from Beijing-based DMG Entertainment. But many in the entertainment industry in China say American media executives know the difference between entertaining officials and bribing them.
Stephen L. Saltzman, an entertainment law specialist in Los Angeles for Loeb & Loeb, said he had not seen evidence of corruption in his experience with the Chinese-related films. ''I have in all of my dealings not encountered anything,'' said Mr. Saltzman, who spoke by telephone last week. ''These are very sophisticated companies who understand the rules.''
Film executives around the world have long understood the authority invested in the China Film Group. In an unusually detailed assessment of the Chinese film market last year, the Italian Trade Commission -- relying on interviews and industry databases to make sense of a poorly understood and rapidly changing system -- found the group at virtually every point of entry for a foreign movie. Only the Huaxia Film Group and the China Film Distribution Company were authorized to distribute imported films, the commission reported.
(Mr. Han said Huaxia operates separately; the Italian report described Huaxia as being owned by a group of companies that includes the China Film Group. Huaxia and the China Film Group sometime subcontract distribution to others, it said.)
Co-productions with Chinese companies by foreign producers are subject to the authorization of the China Film Co-Production Company, a China Film Group unit, the report said.
Submission to the Chinese censors, who typically spend 15 to 30 business days reviewing a film and sometimes demand changes, again runs through the film group. Several of the largest theater chains, the commission found, were at least partly owned by the group.
On a visit to Los Angeles in March, about two weeks before the S.E.C. sent its letters, Mr. Han was received in a manner that matched his obvious power in China. He was widely reported to have visited with high executives at Sony, Universal and Disney, and to have paid a call on Bruce Willis, who is starring in a coming film, ''Looper,'' that was shot partly in Shanghai, with backing from China. Mr. Han was accompanied by Dan Mintz, an American-born advertising executive based in China who is among the producers of ''Looper.''
Mr. Mintz, in a 2006 profile in the magazine Fast Company, was called a master of ''guanxi,'' the Chinese art of using relationships and clout to navigate potential impediments. In April, Marvel announced that Mr. Mintz and his company, DMG Entertainment, would join in making ''Iron Man 3'' under a co-production deal that would help to cement its access to the Chinese market when the film is released in May 2013.
Mr. Mintz and spokesmen for Disney and Marvel declined to discuss details of their alliance.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 01, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A reporting credit on Monday with an article about the film business in China misidentified the city from which Gu Huini contributed research. She was in Shanghai, not in Beijing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''The Karate Kid'' from Sony Pictures Entertainment was made for world markets with involvement by the China Film Group, which is led by Han Sanping, left, and is the conduit for foreigners seeking to make or distribute films in China. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASIN BOLAND/COLUMBIA PICTURES
 CHINA PHOTOS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FILM GENRES (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ANIMATION (73%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); CENSORSHIP (73%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); TICKET SALES (56%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (55%); REGAL ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (55%); DIS (NYSE) (55%); RGC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (50%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012



1057 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Dissident's Fate At Issue In Talks Of U.S And China

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and JANE PERLEZ; Steven Lee Myers reported from Washington, and Jane Perlez from Beijing.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration rushed to contain a growing diplomatic crisis between the United States and China, sending a senior diplomat to Beijing to discuss the fate of a blind dissident who fled house arrest last week.
Amid intense secrecy, including a nearly blanket refusal to comment, the administration sought to negotiate over the safety of the dissident, Chen Guangcheng, who is said to be in American hands in Beijing -- though it remained unclear late Sunday whether he was in the embassy, in a diplomatic residence, or somewhere else.
The senior diplomat, Kurt M. Campbell, an assistant secretary of state, arrived Sunday to meet with Chinese officials concerning Mr. Chen's case, and to try to keep the matter from undermining the administration's longstanding effort to improve economic and security relations with China, senior officials and diplomats in Washington and Beijing said.
A senior American official said that China's leadership met Sunday to work out their response to Mr. Chen's escape before scheduled meetings this week with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. Mrs. Clinton is due to leave Washington for China on Monday night. 
''They're trying to figure out what they're going to tell Hillary Clinton,'' the official said of the Chinese leaders, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the diplomatic delicacy surrounding the case. ''We'd like to know as much as we can before she leaves.''
The administration's effort to contain the crisis -- the State Department declined to confirm that Mr. Campbell was in China, even though he was photographed in a Marriott hotel in Beijing -- underscored the political challenge facing President Obama, at home and abroad.
''This is the greatest test in bilateral relations in years, probably going back to '89,'' said Christopher K. Johnson, until recently a senior China analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency, referring to the year of the crackdown on student protests in Tiananmen Square. He noted that the relationship had weathered tense moments since then, like the forced landing of a Navy spy plane on Hainan Island in 2001 after a midair encounter with a Chinese fighter jet.
Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, called for the administration to ''take every measure'' to protect Mr. Chen and his family. While he did not address the handling of the case, he said the matter demonstrated the need for unflinching American support for human rights in China.
''Any serious U.S. policy toward China must confront the facts of the Chinese government's denial of political liberties, its one-child policy and other violation of human rights,'' Mr. Romney said in a statement on Sunday, his first remarks on the issue since Mr. Chen's escape was reported Friday.
Mr. Chen, 40, became famous because of his strong opposition to forced abortions and sterilizations conducted as part of China's policy of limiting families to one child per couple. ''Our country must play a strong role in urging reform in China and supporting those fighting for the freedoms we enjoy,'' Mr. Romney said.
The administration's only public comment so far on Mr. Chen's case came from an unexpected source: Mr. Obama's top counterterrorism adviser, John O. Brennan. Asked about the matter on ''Fox News Sunday,'' he declined to discuss Mr. Chen's whereabouts in any detail, but he acknowledged that ''we are working very closely with the individuals involved in this.''
He went on to say that the administration sought ''an appropriate balance'' when advocating for human rights in strategically important countries like China.
''I think, in all instances, the president tries to balance our commitment to human rights, making sure that the people throughout the world have the ability to express themselves freely and openly,'' Mr. Brennan said, ''but also that we can continue to carry out our relationships with key countries overseas.''
The two days of talks to be held in Beijing this week -- known as the Strategic and Economic Dialogue -- will be overshadowed by the diplomatic complications surrounding Mr. Chen's daring escape, which took American officials by surprise. Still, both sides suggested that the talks would go ahead. In the only comment by a Chinese official so far, Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai said Saturday that he did not believe the Chen case would ''occupy much time'' at the talks.
The meetings have been an important element of the administration's policy to manage America's increasingly complex relations with China through regular discussions on a wide spectrum of issues, though they were not expected to yield any specific results this week. In recent months, administration officials say they have seen signs of greater Chinese flexibility on security issues involving Iran, Syria and North Korea and on economic concerns like China's exchange rate.
Mr. Cui's statement did not preclude the possibility that a senior Chinese leader would meet with Mrs. Clinton separately from the planned sessions and deliver a sharp message about American involvement in Mr. Chen's case, or a broader condemnation of American support for dissidents in China.
The Chinese government regards foreign criticism of its human rights policies and practices as undue interference in its internal affairs, and it will almost certainly use the occasion of the talks to drive that point home, diplomats in Beijing said. In fact, the Chinese might go forward with the planned talks specifically to have the chance to confront Mrs. Clinton about it.
Mr. Chen's case is the second in recent months that has drawn the Obama administration into the affairs of the Chinese government without any intention on Washington's part. In February a provincial official showed up at the American Consulate in Chengdu, seeking protection from a powerful party leader, Bo Xilai. The State Department instead arranged for him to be transferred to the national authorities in Beijing. Evidence that the provincial official claimed to possess apparently caused Mr. Bo's political downfall and prompted an investigation of Mr. Bo's wife in the killing of a British businessman.
Mr. Chen's case is different. A self-taught lawyer, he has called attention to human rights abuses against the disabled and women who have been forcibly sterilized. In 2006 he was sentenced to 51 months in prison on charges of destroying property and assembling a crowd to disrupt traffic, charges his supporters say were trumped up.
After he was released from prison, the local authorities held him under an extralegal form of house arrest, with cordons of police officers surrounding his family's farmhouse. In an audacious video released Friday, Mr. Chen did not call for a change of government, but rather appealed to Prime Minister Wen Jiabao to investigate and halt the abuse of his family. Other advocates who have spoken to him since he fled say he does not want asylum that would force him to leave China.
That could create an opening for resolving a standoff with the United States, the officials said.
''The federal government doesn't have to take this as a threat,'' the senior American official said Sunday, noting that Mr. Chen had not escaped from official detention, but rather from harassment at the hands of the local authorities.
Mr. Chen's supporters and Chinese officials have said that he is now in the American Embassy. More than the usual number of security vehicles, containing men in uniform and plain clothes patrolled the area near the embassy over the weekend, but there was no sign of a major security presence at the gates or entrances to the compound.
It was possible, however, that Mr. Chen was not in the fortresslike embassy, but in an apartment or some other building, and thus still vulnerable to arrest, diplomats in Beijing said. That could explain the administration's refusal to discuss his case or his precise whereabouts.
Officials in Washington and Beijing refused Sunday to talk about Mr. Campbell's mission or any negotiations he may be conducting. The senior American official said that much remained unclear, including China's response to what has become a major embarrassment to Beijing. ''It's not something that's going to be resolved quickly,'' the official said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paramilitary police officers patrolled near the United States Embassy, where it was thought that Chen Guangcheng, below, was staying. Left, the American diplomat Kurt M. Campbell in Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON LEE/REUTERS
CHINA AID, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 NG HAN GUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ESPIONAGE (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (61%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MITT ROMNEY (75%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); HAINAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1058 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: A Scandal Starts to Hem In Murdoch's Empire

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK

 BODY:
In the months after a phone-hacking scandal erupted in Britain last summer, Rupert Murdoch told people within News Corporation that he wanted to revisit his media company's discontinued $12 billion bid for the pay television service British Sky Broadcasting.
Mr. Murdoch, the chairman of News Corporation, still viewed the acquisition of the 60 percent of BSkyB not already owned by News Corporation as a strategically important investment. The TV company, which posted an operating profit of more than $1.7 billion in 2011, would have provided a steady revenue stream for his company.
Pressure was put on News Corporation, mostly by investment bankers specializing in the media sector, who suggested that the best way to win government approval for the deal would be to sell or spin off its embattled British newspaper unit, News International, to help ease lawmakers' concerns about Mr. Murdoch's company owning the country's largest satellite TV operator.
Mr. Murdoch rejected those proposals, according to a person involved in the discussions who was not authorized to comment publicly on the conversations. 
Any shred of hope for a BSkyB takeover in the near future appeared to have been dashed last week after e-mails surfaced suggesting that a News Corporation lobbyist and a British culture minister had conspired to get the deal approved.
''I don't think anybody believes they'll get another shot at controlling BSkyB any time this decade,'' said a person familiar with the company, who would discuss its strategic plans only on the condition of anonymity.
The failed deal highlights a period of caution and relative stagnation at the $50 billion media empire known for its risk-taking and forward-thinking acquisitions.
For months, News Corporation's buoyant stock price and solid financial performance, driven by the strength of its United States television assets, had allowed executives based in New York to paint the scandal as an unfortunate but isolated series of events at the British tabloids, a tiny part of the overall business.
But the events in Britain and the resulting scrutiny have begun to take a toll on the broader empire, according to at least a dozen people familiar with the company, including several former News Corporation executives.
On Tuesday, the Culture, Media and Sport Committee of the British Parliament is expected to release a report that could further damage the company's reputation.
Inside the company, one of the biggest concerns is that News Corporation now sits under a magnifying glass, making any potentially suspect business dealings, even from years ago, vulnerable to scrutiny by the United States government.
A former News Corporation subsidiary, a Moscow-based billboard company called News Outdoor Russia, is the subject of an F.B.I. inquiry into whether the company bribed local officials to advance its business. The findings of that investigation could prove a violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, according to a person briefed on the inquiry. News Corporation sold the company in July to a bank controlled by the Kremlin.
The potential for a billion dollars in fines related to a violation of the corrupt practices act could dwarf the economic downside of anything related to the lawsuits in Britain, said Behnam Dayanim, a regulatory lawyer based in Washington. ''It may be the single most feared corporate criminal statute out there today,'' Mr. Dayanim said.
News Corporation declined to comment. News Outdoor Russia has denied all suggestions that the company bribed officials to advance its business.
The hacking scandal has delivered a blow to News Corporation's push into the potentially lucrative education sector, a project prized by Mr. Murdoch. In November 2010, News Corporation paid $360 million for a 90 percent stake in Wireless Generation, an education technology company based in Brooklyn that specializes in interactive learning tools.
In August, Wireless Generation lost its $27 million no-bid contract to develop educational software for New York schools. Thomas P. DiNapoli, the New York State comptroller, said the state rejected the contract ''in light of the significant ongoing investigations and continuing revelations with respect to News Corporation.''
In Turkey, News Corporation, which already operates several Turkish television stations, is one of three bidders for the country's second-largest media group, Sabah-ATV, which is valued at $700 million to $1 billion. A deal would add to its portfolio of international pay TV stations, which includes Sky Deutschland in Germany and Sky Italia in Italy.
But the bid could face regulatory opposition in Turkey as a result of the scandal. ''They're persona non grata right now as a bidder on assets,'' said a person familiar with the company's plans who did not want to publicly criticize News Corporation.
A News Corporation spokeswoman said the events in Britain had not affected potential acquisitions elsewhere.
Throughout the scandal, the company has managed investor nervousness by praising its entertainment assets and strong revenue. But it has also undertaken an expensive stock buyback program worth $5 billion, an anomaly for News Corporation and Mr. Murdoch.
Michael Nathanson, an analyst at Nomura Securities, praised the stock repurchases and minimized the effect the hacking scandal was having on the company's overall strategy.
''I can't imagine how what's happening in the U.K. is impacting the people making huge decisions in those businesses,'' Mr. Nathanson said. ''I firmly think this is a story for folks in the U.K.''
Others say News Corporation did not grow from a tiny newspaper company in Adelaide, Australia, to one of the world's largest media companies by sitting dormant.
''Buying back the shares isn't building anything,'' said Todd Juenger, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. ''It's not making the company bigger. It's just changing the capital structure.'' He added: ''I'd rather see a company that is growing and building asset value than uniformly returning cash to shareholders.''
Inside News Corporation, the hacking scandal has consumed an increasing amount of attention. Mr. Murdoch, a hands-on manager who likes nothing better than to talk about his newspaper coverage, has spent the last several weeks preparing for the Leveson Inquiry into media ethics in Britain, being overseen by Lord Justice Leveson.
Joel I. Klein, hired by Mr. Murdoch to lead News Corporation's education initiatives, and Gerson A. Zweifach, a Washington lawyer hired as the company's in-house counsel, have led the preparation, according to people close to the company and familiar with Mr. Murdoch's schedule.
At least temporarily, two of Mr. Murdoch's adult children, James and Elisabeth, have both been put at a distance from important corporate decision making in the aftermath of the scandal. Elisabeth, known for her acumen in television programming (she is credited with persuading her father to broadcast ''American Idol''), withdrew from joining News Corporation's board in August amid widening investigations into the company's British operations and criticism about nepotism on the company board.
James, once considered his father's heir apparent, resigned as chairman of BSkyB this month, and has since spent time in Los Angeles meeting with studio executives to discuss ideas for making content more readily available digitally. He has also spent time in India and China, far from News Corporation's power base in New York, according to several people familiar with the company who were not authorized to discuss James's whereabouts.
James works closely with Chase Carey, News Corporation's president and chief operating officer, ''on driving our overall growth with a keen focus on our global television business and expansion into digital platforms,'' a News Corporation spokeswoman, Julie Henderson, said.
And the scandal has cost Rupert Murdoch several of his most-trusted executives. News International's former chief, Rebekah Brooks, faces possible criminal charges for her role in the scandal. Les Hinton, who had worked with Mr. Murdoch for 52 years, stepped down as the top executive at Dow Jones.
In testimony last week, Mr. Murdoch criticized Mr. Hinton, formerly News International's chief executive, for hiring Colin Myler as editor of News of the World and not pressing him to find out ''what the hell was going on'' at the tabloid. He also blamed Mr. Myler and another longtime adviser, a News International lawyer, Tom Crone, for a ''cover-up'' of phone hacking, calling Mr. Crone ''a drinking pal'' and ''a clever lawyer.'' In response, Mr. Crone called Mr. Murdoch's attack ''a shameful lie.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters dressed as James and Rupert Murdoch outside a London court last week, where the younger Murdoch was testifying. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HACKETT/REUTERS)
 In court last week, Rupert Murdoch blamed former company executives for trying to cover up the phone-hacking scandal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); WIRETAPPING (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); NEWS CORP PHONE HACKING SCANDAL (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); CONSPIRACY (70%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (62%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (92%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); BSY (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1059 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Experts Believe Iran Conflict Is Less Likely

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN; Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem, and Artin Afkhami from Boston.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After a winter of alarm over the possibility that a military conflict over the Iranian nuclear program might be imminent, American officials and outside analysts now believe that the chances of war in the near future have significantly decreased.
They cite a series of factors that, for now, argue against a conflict. The threat of tighter economic sanctions has prompted the Iranians to try more flexible tactics in their dealings with the United States and other powers, while the revival of direct negotiations has tempered the most inflammatory talk on all sides.
A growing divide in Israel between political leaders and military and intelligence officials over the wisdom of attacking Iran has begun to surface. And the White House appears determined to prevent any confrontation that could disrupt world oil markets in an election year.
''I do think the temperature has cooled,'' an Obama administration official said this week. 
At the same time, no one is discounting the possibility that the current optimism could fade. ''While there isn't an agreement between the U.S. and Israel on how much time, there is an agreement that there is some time to give diplomacy a chance,'' said Dennis B. Ross, who previously handled Iran policy for the Obama administration.
''So I think right now you have a focus on the negotiations,'' he added. ''It doesn't mean the threat of using force goes away, but it lies behind the diplomacy.''
The talks two weeks ago in Istanbul between Iran and the United States and other world powers were something of a turning point in the current American thinking about Iran. In the days leading up to the talks, there had been little optimism in Washington, but Iranian negotiators appeared more flexible and open to resolving the crisis than expected, even though no agreement was reached other than to talk again, in Baghdad next month. American officials believe the looming threat of tighter economic sanctions to take effect on July 1 convinced the Iranians to take the negotiations more seriously, and that in turn has reduced the threat of war.
''There is a combination of factors coming on line, including the talks and the sanctions, and so now I think people realize it has to be given time to play out,'' one administration official said, who, like the other official, spoke without attribution in order to discuss sensitive matters. ''We are in a period now where the combination of diplomacy and pressure is giving us a window.''
In a television appearance on Wednesday, Senator John Kerry, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said, ''I have confidence that there is a way forward.''
Senior Iranian leaders have sought to portray the Istanbul round of negotiations as successful, which might be a sign, American officials and outside analysts said, that the Iranian government is preparing the public for a deal with the West that could be portrayed as a win for Iran.
''I see that we are at the beginning of the end of what I call the 'manufactured Iran file,' '' the Iranian foreign minister, Ali Akbar Salehi, said after the talks. ''At the Baghdad meeting, I see more progress,'' he predicted.
IRNA, the Iranian state-controlled news service, reported last week that a leading Iranian cleric, Ayatollah Kazem Seddiqi, had made positive statements about the negotiations. The news service said that the cleric, in his Friday sermon to thousands of worshipers in Tehran, said that if the United States and other nations negotiating with Iran show ''logical behavior in nuclear talks, the outcome will be good for all.''
According to IRNA, Ayatollah Seddiqi said the Istanbul meeting showed ''the power and dignity of the Iranian nation and was the outcome of people's resistance and following the supreme leader's guidelines.''
At the same time in Israel, the conservative government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been rocked by a series of public comments from current and former Israeli military and intelligence officials questioning the wisdom of attacking Iran.
The latest comments came from Yuval Diskin, the former chief of Shin Bet, Israel's domestic security service, who on Friday said Mr. Netanyahu and Defense Minister Ehud Barak should not be trusted to determine policy on Iran. He said the judgments of both men have been clouded by ''messianic feelings.'' Mr. Diskin, who was chief of Shin Bet until last year, said an attack against Iran might cause it to speed up its nuclear program.
Just days before, Israel's army chief of staff suggested in an interview with the Israeli newspaper Haaretz that the Iranian nuclear threat was not quite as imminent as Mr. Netanyahu has portrayed it. In his comments, Lt. Gen. Benny Gantz suggested that he agreed with the intelligence assessments of the United States that Iran has not yet decided whether to build a nuclear bomb.
Iran ''is going step by step to the place where it will be able to decide whether to manufacture a nuclear bomb. It hasn't yet decided whether to go the extra mile,'' General Gantz told Haaretz. He suggested that the crisis may not come to a head this year. But he said, ''Clearly, the more the Iranians progress, the worse the situation is.''
Last month, Meir Dagan, the former chief of the Israeli spy agency Mossad, said he did not advocate a pre-emptive Israeli strike against Iran's nuclear program anytime soon. In an interview with CBS's ''60 Minutes,'' Mr. Dagan said the Iranian government was ''a very rational one,'' and that Iranian officials were ''considering all the implications of their actions.''
Mr. Netanyahu is dealing with the criticisms at the same time as he faces, for domestic political reasons, the prospect of an election this year, rather than next.
The divide within the Israeli establishment is significant because Israel has been threatening to launch a unilateral strike against Iran's nuclear facilities if the United States is unwilling to do so. Washington has feared that if Israel were to do so, the United States could get dragged into the fight, which could result in a widening war in the region.
The crisis atmosphere seemed most pronounced in March, when Mr. Netanyahu visited Washington. Mr. Obama, fearful of antagonizing American Jewish voters during an election year, tried to strike a balance, appearing supportive of Israel but still stopping short of endorsing military action anytime soon. He said at the time that he ''had Israel's back,'' and strongly suggested that the United States would take military action to prevent Iran from ever acquiring a nuclear bomb.
Mr. Obama made it clear that he would not be willing to pursue a policy of ''containment'' on Iran, in which the United States would accept an Iranian nuclear weapon while seeking to prevent a further nuclear arms race in the Middle East.
Abandoning containment as a policy option was the result of an intense debate within the administration, and moved Washington a bit closer to the Israeli position, and it was considered by the White House to be the biggest reward they were willing to give Mr. Netanyahu during his visit. Yet Mr. Obama also made it clear that he believes now is the time to give diplomacy a chance.
But some analysts warned that the Iran crisis could heat up again if there was not much progress at the Baghdad talks. The Istanbul meetings were designed simply to determine whether Iran was serious about beginning a new round of negotiations, but in the Baghdad sessions, the United States and other countries are expected to demand that Iran begin to discuss the details of a possible deal. That would require that Iran show a willingness to compromise on its uranium enrichment program, perhaps by agreeing to halt its efforts to enrich at 20 percent, a level that is higher than is needed for civilian nuclear power.
Iran has said that its 20 percent enrichment effort is for use in a research reactor, but the United States and Israel suspect that it is actually an interim step in efforts to reach 90 percent enrichment, considered weapons-grade. If Iran does not engage in a substantive discussion of the details of its program in Baghdad, the crisis atmosphere may return.
''I think this could be a temporary lull,'' said Paul R. Pillar, a former C.I.A. analyst on the Middle East. ''My own expectation is that even after Baghdad, we will only see the most preliminary understandings, and we will hear again people saying we are giving up too much. And the lull right now could just be a lull between the diplomatic meetings.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (68%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (53%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (92%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1060 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TICKET; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Ryan's Rise From Follower to G.O.P. Trailblazer

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Representative Paul D. Ryan strolls the halls of Capitol Hill with the anarchist band Rage Against the Machine pounding through his earbuds.
At 6:30 every morning, he leads an adoring cast of young, conservative members of Congress through exercise sessions in front of a televised trainer barking out orders. For fun, Mr. Ryan noodles catfish, catching them barehanded with a fist down their throats.
He may be, as a friend described him, ''a hunting-obsessed gym rat,'' but Mr. Ryan, 42, of Wisconsin, has become perhaps the most influential policy maker in the Republican Party, its de facto head of economic policy, intent on a fundamental transformation of the federal government.
His prescriptions in the Republican budget plan he devised have become his party's marching orders: cut income tax rates and simplify the code, privatize Medicare, shrink the food-stamp and Medicaid programs and turn almost all control over to the states, and reduce domestic federal spending to its smallest share of the economy since World War II. 
Outside of Mitt Romney, the likely Republican presidential nominee, Mr. Ryan may be the party's most important figure, said William Bennett, the conservative luminary and a mentor of Mr. Ryan's going back to the congressman's early 20s.
Some conservatives say Mr. Bennett might have the reality reversed. ''Paul Ryan effectively captured the Republican presidential candidates,'' Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, a member of the House Republican leadership, said admiringly.
Having gained such influence, Mr. Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, now faces some big questions, about his ideas and his future.
So far, he has offered major parts of his budget only in broad brush strokes, without specifying all the spending cuts he would make or which popular tax breaks he would eliminate. He has proposed collapsing today's six personal income tax rates into two, 10 percent and 25 percent, and lowering the corporate rate to 25 percent from 35 percent, all while maintaining the same flow of revenue by closing loopholes.
He also strongly favors a repeal of President Obama's health care law, even though his own prescriptions for Medicare -- a menu of federally subsidized, private health plans -- are similar to the Obama plan's for insurance expansion. But he has not offered a plan that would provide coverage to nearly as many people.
The White House and Congressional Democrats have seized on Mr. Ryan's outline as the distillation of everything they say is wrong with the Republican agenda heading toward the November election.
Mr. Ryan has not yet made clear whether he has an interest in compromising or whether his sole goal is a Republican victory that is sweeping enough to enact his own vision.
Regardless, he is likely to remain near the center of the political tussle. He is among the handful of people most often mentioned as both a 2012 vice-presidential nominee and a future presidential candidate.
Grover Norquist, the Republican strategist who heads Americans for Tax Reform, said in an interview that he did not expect Mr. Romney to lead as president. He just wants him to sign the bills that put Mr. Ryan's vision into practice.
That is not bad for a man who was once just another minion on Capitol Hill, working for a research group, then for a member of Congress, and moonlighting as a waiter at the Hill hangout Tortilla Coast and as a personal trainer at a gym. Co-workers at the conservative policy group Empower America admonished him for hanging his workout clothes out to dry at work rather than laundering them.
''It's amazing to all of us because Paul was just an ordinary guy,'' said A. Mark Neuman, an old friend.
Mr. Ryan admits it took some ego to run for Congress at age 27, a race he would win in 1998; he asked Mr. Bennett if it passed the laugh test. But he said he was still the same kid from Janesville, Wis., where he returns almost every weekend and Congressional recess to be with his wife, his three children, and a tight cluster of uncles, aunts, cousins and brothers.
He is not so modest about his budget plan, the Path to Prosperity.
''It's very important, and we meant it to be,'' Mr. Ryan said.
He does not drive stakes into the ground, he said, but he also made clear that compromise should come on his terms.
''What I hope happens is we go to the country with a positive agenda to show how we will prevent a debt crisis, how we will get this economy growing again,'' he said, ''then win the House, Senate and the White House, and then be magnanimous in that victory and include reformers from the other side of the aisle into a coalition to fix these problems.''
Mr. Ryan pointed to his work with Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, and Alice M. Rivlin, a Clinton administration economist, on a Medicare overhaul that would include subsidized private competition, but on the broader question of whether spending cuts need to be twinned with tax increases, he does not give an inch.
His biggest opportunity for compromise came in late 2010 when, as a member of the president's bipartisan deficit-reduction commission, he had a chance to vote on the $4 trillion plan put forward by the commission's chairmen, Erskine B. Bowles and Alan K. Simpson. He voted no, taking every House Republican on the panel with him and preventing the guarantee of a vote in Congress.
But those who know him cannot seem to dislike him.
''I'm stunned by how oblivious he is to the pain his policies would cause people,'' said David R. Obey, a Democrat from Wisconsin who jousted often with his downstate colleague before retiring from the House at the end of 2010. ''What amazes me is that someone that nice personally has such a cold, almost academic view of what the impact of his policies would be on people.''
For all the talk of Led Zeppelin on the iPod and bowhunting in season, Mr. Ryan got serious at a young age, his brother Tobin, 47, said. His family was not particularly political. His parents liked Ronald Reagan, but they also supported their Democratic congressman, Les Aspin.
Mr. Ryan's father, a local lawyer, worried that his son would become a ski bum. Then the elder Ryan died of a heart attack. At 16, with his mother away visiting his older sister, Paul found the body.
''The death of my father had an enormous impact on accelerating his development,'' Tobin Ryan said.
Mr. Ryan's mother went back to college to prepare for a new career. His older siblings moved away. His grandmother moved in, with Alzheimer's disease.
He read Ayn Rand novels. By the time he got to Miami University in Ohio, he was versed in the bootstrap economics of Friedrich Hayek.
Among Republicans in and outside Mr. Ryan's immediate circle, the admiration verges on infatuation. They gush about his athleticism: At 42, he is ''in kick-butt shape,'' said Representative Aaron Schock of Illinois. They laud his bowhunting: ''It's a little harder, takes more expertise and a lot more concentration,'' said Representative Kevin McCarthy of California.
Aside from the occasional night at his sister-in-law's house in Bethesda, Md., Mr. Ryan sleeps in his office when in Washington. It makes it easier to keep working.
Mr. Ryan married into Oklahoma Democratic royalty -- his wife, Janna Little, is a cousin of Representative Dan Boren, the son of a former senator, David Boren. Mr. Ryan admired Ms. Little from afar and asked Mr. Neuman to introduce them. Her sister Dana was throwing her a birthday party, but Mr. Ryan, sick with the flu, almost begged off.
''I'm introducing you to the woman who is going to have your children,'' Mr. Neuman recalled scolding him.
With marriage came a rural ranch where Mr. Ryan and his in-laws wade into Lake Texoma, reach into holes and wrestle catfish -- a sport that appears to be attaining mythic dimensions in Ryan World.
''They come up on your hand, and you just squeeze wherever you are in that fish and pull it out,'' he said with a shrug, bragging about the 40-pounder he landed two seasons ago. ''I know it sounds a little crazy, but it's really exhilarating.''
Mr. Ryan likes to dispel two ''urban legends'' around him. First, he said, he is not a disciple of Rand, the strident libertarian. Second, he never drove the Oscar Mayer Wienermobile.
In fact, there is some truth to both. In a 2009 Facebook video, Mr. Ryan said the ''kind of thinking'' in the Rand epics ''The Fountainhead'' and ''Atlas Shrugged'' was ''sorely needed right now.''
As for the Wienermobile, one summer as he was pressing Oscar Mayer Lunchables and turkey bacon on meat buyers in rural Minnesota, two ''very nice young ladies'' who were driving the hotdog-shaped vehicle did let him ''take it for a spin,'' he confessed.
THE TICKET: This is the first in a series of articles about potential Republican vice-presidential prospects.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul D. Ryan, left, with a fellow congressman, Jeb Hensarling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Representative Paul D. Ryan, right, joined Mitt Romney on the campaign trail in Milwaukee before the Wisconsin primary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES ) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); INCOME TAX (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (68%); MEDICAID (54%); WORLD WAR II (52%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); TOM COLE (58%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (57%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1061 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Wasting Our Minds

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In Spain, the unemployment rate among workers under 25 is more than 50 percent. In Ireland almost a third of the young are unemployed. Here in America, youth unemployment is ''only'' 16.5 percent, which is still terrible -- but things could be worse.
And sure enough, many politicians are doing all they can to guarantee that things will, in fact, get worse. We've been hearing a lot about the war on women, which is real enough. But there's also a war on the young, which is just as real even if it's better disguised. And it's doing immense harm, not just to the young, but to the nation's future. 
Let's start with some advice Mitt Romney gave to college students during an appearance last week. After denouncing President Obama's ''divisiveness,'' the candidate told his audience, ''Take a shot, go for it, take a risk, get the education, borrow money if you have to from your parents, start a business.''
The first thing you notice here is, of course, the Romney touch -- the distinctive lack of empathy for those who weren't born into affluent families, who can't rely on the Bank of Mom and Dad to finance their ambitions. But the rest of the remark is just as bad in its own way.
I mean, ''get the education''? And pay for it how? Tuition at public colleges and universities has soared, in part thanks to sharp reductions in state aid. Mr. Romney isn't proposing anything that would fix that; he is, however, a strong supporter of the Ryan budget plan, which would drastically cut federal student aid, causing roughly a million students to lose their Pell grants.
So how, exactly, are young people from cash-strapped families supposed to ''get the education''? Back in March Mr. Romney had the answer: Find the college ''that has a little lower price where you can get a good education.'' Good luck with that. But I guess it's divisive to point out that Mr. Romney's prescriptions are useless for Americans who weren't born with his advantages.
There is, however, a larger issue: even if students do manage, somehow, to ''get the education,'' which they do all too often by incurring a lot of debt, they'll be graduating into an economy that doesn't seem to want them.
You've probably heard lots about how workers with college degrees are faring better in this slump than those with only a high school education, which is true. But the story is far less encouraging if you focus not on middle-aged Americans with degrees but on recent graduates. Unemployment among recent graduates has soared; so has part-time work, presumably reflecting the inability of graduates to find full-time jobs. Perhaps most telling, earnings have plunged even among those graduates working full time -- a sign that many have been forced to take jobs that make no use of their education.
College graduates, then, are taking it on the chin thanks to the weak economy. And research tells us that the price isn't temporary: students who graduate into a bad economy never recover the lost ground. Instead, their earnings are depressed for life.
What the young need most of all, then, is a better job market. People like Mr. Romney claim that they have the recipe for job creation: slash taxes on corporations and the rich, slash spending on public services and the poor. But we now have plenty of evidence on how these policies actually work in a depressed economy -- and they clearly destroy jobs rather than create them.
For as you look at the economic devastation in Europe, you should bear in mind that some of the countries experiencing the worst devastation have been doing everything American conservatives say we should do here. Not long ago, conservatives gushed over Ireland's economic policies, especially its low corporate tax rate; the Heritage Foundation used to give it higher marks for ''economic freedom'' than any other Western nation. When things went bad, Ireland once again received lavish praise, this time for its harsh spending cuts, which were supposed to inspire confidence and lead to quick recovery.
And now, as I said, almost a third of Ireland's young can't find jobs.
What should we do to help America's young? Basically, the opposite of what Mr. Romney and his friends want. We should be expanding student aid, not slashing it. And we should reverse the de facto austerity policies that are holding back the U.S. economy -- the unprecedented cutbacks at the state and local level, which have been hitting education especially hard.
Yes, such a policy reversal would cost money. But refusing to spend that money is foolish and shortsighted even in purely fiscal terms. Remember, the young aren't just America's future; they're the future of the tax base, too.
A mind is a terrible thing to waste; wasting the minds of a whole generation is even more terrible. Let's stop doing it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FAMILY (87%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); TUITION FEES (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); BUDGETS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (61%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1062 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Hardly a Close Ally, Clinton Teams With Obama to Raise Cash and Votes

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Four years ago, Barack Obama wrested control of the Democratic Party after portraying Bill Clinton as a symbol of small-ball ambition and outdated politics. Now, as president, Mr. Obama is turning to his Democratic predecessor for help as Republicans breathe down his neck.
The 44th president is enlisting the 42nd president, both as a historical validator of his own leadership and as a PIN to one of the richest A.T.M.'s in American politics. Rather than viewing him as a relic of the past, Mr. Obama is embracing Mr. Clinton as a party wise man who can reassure both the general public and the well-heeled benefactors needed to win re-election.
The last three days have seen a remarkable confluence of the two presidents, despite a fraught relationship. On Friday, Mr. Obama's campaign released a video narrated by Mr. Clinton testifying to the boldness of last year's decision to send helicopters deep into Pakistan to kill Osama bin Laden. On Sunday night, Mr. Clinton joined Mr. Obama for a fund-raiser intended to tap the former president's formidable donor network and marry two wings of the party that have coexisted uneasily since their 2008 showdown. 
''You guys get two presidents for one out of this event, which is a pretty good deal,'' Mr. Obama told the guests at the fund-raiser.
David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's longtime strategist, said the joint efforts show that the two men have forged a strong relationship over the last four years. ''When you're president, there are very few people to whom you can turn who really 'get' what the job demands,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''President Clinton has been the source of very good advice, and very meaningful support.''
Privately, Democrats portray the evolving alliance as more utilitarian. ''Once Obama's out of office, I doubt they'll take family vacations together,'' said a former Clinton aide who has also worked for Mr. Obama and asked not to be named to avoid offending either man. ''But Clinton thinks it's critical for the country that he gets re-elected, and will do whatever he can to see that that happens.''
Another Democrat who has worked for both men said: ''There's no love lost. But Bill Clinton is not stupid. He knows if he can give a little of his 60-percent-plus approval rating halo to Obama, and Obama does well, that only helps Clinton. And it helps the missus if she wants to run.''
Hillary Rodham Clinton, who lost the Democratic nomination to Mr. Obama in 2008 only to join his cabinet as secretary of state, has made clear that she will step down after this term no matter what happens in the fall election. But in recent months, people in the Clinton orbit said she has left the door more open to running for president again in 2016, a campaign that would benefit from Mr. Obama's good will.
By many accounts, the president and the secretary of state get along fairly well despite their epic clash four years ago. He felt comfortable enough teasing her during his comic performance at the White House Correspondents' Association dinner on Saturday night, referring to pictures of her drinking a beer during a recent trip to Colombia.
''Four years ago, I was locked in a brutal primary battle with Hillary Clinton,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Four years later, she won't stop drunk-texting me from Cartagena.''
Paradoxically, it has been the relationship between the two presidents that has been more awkward. At times, Mr. Obama has kept Mr. Clinton at a distance; at others, he has called on him for help, as he did after Democrats lost the House in the 2010 midterm elections.
A classic example of the complicated dynamic came last year when Mr. Clinton published a book titled ''Back to Work,'' offering very public advice about how to fix the economy. At first, the book rankled the Obama camp, which felt blindsided by its publication and privately complained that it made it seem as if the current president needed guidance. Eventually, after reading it, though, the irritation dissipated and the president's advisers concluded that it was O.K. for them.
For all of their reputation as frenemies, Mr. Obama has stacked his administration with Clinton lieutenants. Aside from Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama's chief of staff, national economic adviser, treasury secretary, defense secretary and attorney general, as well as Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s chief of staff, national security adviser and counselor, all worked for Mr. Clinton.
While Mr. Clinton's presidency was rocked by controversy, his image has largely improved since leaving office. His camp expects Mr. Obama to deploy him to centrist or conservative states where the incumbent might be less effective. His economic record may help Mr. Obama argue that his programs have helped, even if unemployment remains high and growth sluggish.
In the meantime, Mr. Obama hopes Mr. Clinton can convince his backers that it is time to crack open their checkbooks.
The two men appeared together Sunday night at the Virginia home of Terry McAuliffe, the longtime Clinton fund-raiser, former Democratic National Committee chairman and chairman of Mrs. Clinton's primary campaign four years ago. The joint appearance was brokered in part by Douglas Band, Mr. Clinton's adviser; Jim Messina, Mr. Obama's campaign manager; and Mr. McAuliffe, who may run for Virginia governor again next year.
The joint appearance included a reception for 500 people paying $1,000 apiece and a dinner for 80 donors paying $20,000 each. The $2.1 million take will go to the Obama Victory Fund, a joint fund-raising committee of the president's re-election campaign, the Democratic National Committee and several state Democratic parties. Mr. Clinton has also agreed to join Mr. Obama at two other fund-raisers.
On Sunday night, Mr. Clinton happily took on Mitt Romney, saying Mr. Obama has ''got an opponent who basically wants to do what they did before -- on steroids.''
Mr. Obama likewise mocked Mr. Romney for saying in a recent interview that Russia remained ''our No. 1 geopolitical foe.'' ''I didn't know we were back in 1975,'' the president said.
As for the man he once dismissed as not a transformational president, Mr. Obama heaped praise on Mr. Clinton, calling him ''a master communicator'' who refocused the Democratic Party when it ''was a little bit lost.''
And he teased Mr. Clinton, saying that he no doubt missed Air Force One. ''I'll miss it too,'' Mr. Obama added.
To which a woman in the crowd yelled, ''But not yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, with former President Bill Clinton in December, has enlisted Mr. Clinton's help in his bid for re-election. On Sunday, the two appeared at a Virginia fund-raiser that took in more than $2 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); HELICOPTERS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1063 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include personal income and spending for March, and the Chicago purchasing managers' index for April (Monday); the I.S.M. manufacturing index for April and construction spending for March (Tuesday); the ADP employment report for April and factory orders for March (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, first-quarter productivity and the I.S.M. nonmanufacturing report for April (Thursday); and unemployment figures for April (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report include NYSE Euronext and Humana (Monday); Archer Daniels Midland, Avon Products, Biogen Idec, Pfizer, Sirius XM Radio, CBS, Chesapeake Energy (Tuesday); Beazer Homes, CVS Caremark, Comcast, IAC/InterActiveCorp, MasterCard, Time Warner, UBS, Allstate, Prudential Financial, Visa (Wednesday); Cablevision Systems, Cigna, General Motors, Sara Lee, Viacom, American International Group, Kraft Foods, LinkedIn (Thursday); and Madison Square Garden (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Monday to Wednesday, President Obama will meet with Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda of Japan.
On Tuesday, automakers will report North American sales for April.
On Wednesday, the Carlyle Group is expected to price its initial public offering.
On Thursday, retailers will report same-store sales for April.
OVERSEAS Monday is the deadline for the 27 members of the European Union to submit their updated budget programs to the European Commission.
On Wednesday, European Union finance ministers will meet in Brussels to discuss bank capital requirements.
On Thursday, the European Central Bank will issue a decision about interest rates.
On Thursday and Friday, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will meet with Chinese officials in Beijing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); BUDGETS (79%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); EURO (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); SAME STORE SALES (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); RETAILERS (72%); SATELLITE RADIO (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (53%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (71%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (71%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (71%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (70%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (70%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (57%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (57%); PFIZER INC (57%); VIACOM INC (56%); CIGNA CORP (56%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (56%); ALLSTATE CORP (56%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (71%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (71%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (71%); IACI (NASDAQ) (70%); CVS (NYSE) (70%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); NYX (PAR) (57%); NYX (NYSE) (57%); AVP (NYSE) (57%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%); CI (NYSE) (56%); PRU (NYSE) (56%); ALL (NYSE) (56%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%); CG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (71%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (71%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (71%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (71%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (71%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (71%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (71%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (71%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (70%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (70%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%); YOSHIHIKO NODA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (71%); BEIJING, CHINA (50%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (64%) EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BELGIUM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1064 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: The Economy Downshifts

 BODY:
The slow start for the economy in 2012 -- an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the first three months of the year -- is evidence that the recovery is too weak to push joblessness much lower than its current 8.2 percent, and too fragile to withstand the kinds of budget cuts Congressional Republicans are proposing. 
First-quarter growth was not far off the recent average pace and conditions are certainly worse elsewhere, with many European nations in recession. But that's false comfort. To make up the damage the Great Recession did to jobs, income, wealth and confidence, the economy needs consistent above-average growth. Europe's problems will only exacerbate America's own, by shaving growth from exports or, in a worst case, by destabilizing banks that are linked to the European financial system.
So there is no getting around that slower growth means bigger challenges for ordinary Americans, for policy makers and, not least, for President Obama and Mitt Romney. Unfortunately, with election-year partisanship only intensifying Washington's gridlock, concerted action to support the economy will have to wait until after the election, and no one knows which direction policy will take.
There are bright spots: consumer spending and housing construction were both up in the latest growth figures. But there is little to indicate that the upturns are sustainable. Spending, for example, was stronger despite weak wage growth, suggesting that most of the bolstered consumption is from relatively wealthy consumers. That can make for good numbers, but it does not signal broad prosperity. Similarly, corporate profits have been healthy, but business investment has waned, indicating that businesses remain cautious and unlikely to increase hiring or raise pay. That, too, suggests greater inequality, since growth will flow more to profits than to pay.
At the same time, cutbacks in government spending -- which are scheduled to deepen next year in keeping with last year's federal budget deal, and which Republicans want to make even deeper -- will eat into growth. In the latest figures, government spending cuts shaved 0.6 of a percentage point from growth; deeper cuts mean more damage, as has been amply demonstrated by self-destructive austerity in Europe.
A stark divide is developing on the campaign trail. President Obama is centering his agenda on policies to address economic inequality -- including more manufacturing jobs and educational opportunities. Mitt Romney is focused on tax cuts for the rich, budget cuts for the poor, and on blaming Mr. Obama for the economic shambles created in the Bush years.
For now, the default policy is to slog on until the end of the year, when lawmakers will be forced to confront the looming federal budget cuts and the simultaneous expiration of the Bush tax cuts, the temporary payroll tax cut and federal unemployment benefits.
The fledgling recovery, beset by lopsided growth, will not be helped by a continuation of high-end Bush tax cuts, nor can the weak economy withstand severe budget cutbacks. Meanwhile, the uncertainty over future policy is yet another harbinger of continued slow growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); CONSTRUCTION (70%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1065 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: April 30, 1975 | Saigon Falls

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On April 30, 1975, Communist North Vietnamese and Viet Cong forces captured the South Vietnamese capital of Saigon, forcing South Vietnam to surrender and bringing about an end to the Vietnam War. 

 BODY:
On April 30, 1975, Communist North Vietnamese and Viet Cong forces captured the South Vietnamese capital of Saigon, forcing South Vietnam to surrender and bringing about an end to the Vietnam War.
An Associated Press article in the May 1 New York Times reported, "Scores of North Vietnamese tanks, armored vehicles and camouflaged Chinese built trucks rolled to the presidential palace. The President of the former non-Communist Government of South Vietnam, Gen. Duong Van Minh, who had gone on radio and television to announce his administration's surrender, was taken to a microphone later by North Vietnamese soldiers for another announcement. He appealed to all Saigon troops to lay down their arms and was taken by the North Vietnamese soldiers to an undisclosed destination."

The fall of Saigon came just over two years after the United States, ally of South Vietnam, pulled out of the Vietnam War with the signing of the Paris Peace Accords. The agreement created a ceasefire between North and South Vietnam, but it did not end the conflict. Fighting resumed by the end of 1973 as the Viet Cong, which still had an estimated 150,000 men positioned in South Vietnam, renewed offensives.
Without the support of U.S. troops and with limited U.S. aid, the South Vietnamese struggled to stop the advance of North Vietnamese forces. In the spring of 1975, South Vietnam President Nguyen Van Thieu desperately asked U.S. President Gerald Ford for support, but Ford could not provide it. Thieu resigned on April 21 and fled the country. 
In the weeks leading up to the fall of Saigon, the United States organized the evacuation of Americans and South Vietnamese orphans and refugees from the city. On April 29 and 30, the U.S. frantically rescued all remaining Americans and some Vietnamese via helicopter. In U.S. media, photographs of the airlifts from the roof of the U.S. embassy and other buildings become emblematic of the fall of Saigon. However, thousands of South Vietnamese desperate to escape were left stranded outside the embassy.
North and South Vietnam were reunited under the control of the Communist North Vietnamese government. The North immediately renamed Saigon "Ho Chi Minh City," after its former president. It rounded up South Vietnamese soldiers and government officials, placed them in camps and encouraged the people of Saigon to leave the city and take up farming in the countryside. The Communist government implemented collectivization plans to transform Vietnam into a socialist country. Its policies had disastrous effects on the economy, however, and in the 1980s the government decided to move to a more market-based, capitalist economy. 
Connect to Today:
In December 2011, as U.S. troops were pulling out of Iraq after nearly nine years of military occupation, Kirk W. Johnson, a former reconstruction coordinator in Iraq wrote a Times op-ed piece about the danger Iraqis who had supported the United States during the war might face once the troops withdrew. He criticized the Obama administration for admitting "only a tiny fraction of our own loyalists" into the country to ensure heir safety, just as the Ford administration stranded many of its Vietnamese allies during the chaos of the fall of Saigon. He concluded, "Moral timidity and a hapless bureaucracy have wedged our doors tightly shut and the Iraqis who remained loyal to us are weeks away from learning how little America's word means."
In your opinion, does the Unites States have a responsibility to protect those who support its cause in foreign wars? Why or why not? What are some of the pros and cons of allowing a large number of Iraqi refugees into the United States? How, if at all, do you think the administration's policies might affect future military interventions and occupations?
Learn more about what happened in history on April 30
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
PUB-DATE: March 26, 1979
        
PUB-DATE: March 5, 1946
        
Feb. 17, 1972 | Nixon Departs for Diplomatic Trip to China
        
Nov. 16, 1933 | U.S. Establishes Diplomatic Relations With the Soviet Union
        
PUB-DATE: March 12, 1947

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR (95%); WAR & CONFLICT (94%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REFUGEES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); DISARMAMENT (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); HELICOPTERS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%) Asia; communism; diplomacy; Global Conflicts; global politics; Vietnam War; Historic Headlines

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (97%) VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1066 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: How Necessary Is a College Education?

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE


HIGHLIGHT: Student Opinion | Do you think current times make earning a college degree more--or less--necessary? 

 BODY:
In the op-ed piece "The Imperiled Promise of College," Frank Bruni writes:
For a long time and for a lot of us, "college" was more or less a synonym for success. We had only to go. We had only to graduate. And if we did, according to parents and high-school guidance counselors and everything we heard and everything we read, we could pretty much count on a career, just about depend on a decent income and more or less expect security. A diploma wasn't a piece of paper. It was an amulet.
And it was broadly accessible, or at least it was spoken of that way. With the right mix of intelligence, moxie and various kinds of aid, a motivated person could supposedly get there. College was seen as a glittering centerpiece of the American dream, a reliable engine of social mobility.
I'm not sure things were ever that simple, but they're definitely more complicated now. And that was an unacknowledged backdrop for the pitched debate last week about federal student loan rates and whether they would be kept at 3.4 percent or allowed to return to 6.8 percent. That was one reason, among many, that it stirred up so much anxiety and got so much attention.
Because of levitating costs, college these days is a luxury item. What's more, it's a luxury item with newly uncertain returns.
Yes, many of the sorts of service-industry jobs now available to people without higher education are less financially rewarding than manufacturing jobs of yore, and so college has in that sense become more imperative. And, yes, college graduates have an unemployment rate half that of people with only high school degrees.
But that figure factors in Americans who got their diplomas and first entered the job market decades ago, and it could reflect not just what was studied in college but the already established economic advantages, contacts and temperaments of the kind of people who pursue and stick with higher education.
It doesn't capture the grim reality for recent college graduates, whose leg up on their less educated counterparts isn't such a sturdy, comely leg at the moment. According to an Associated Press analysis of data from 2011, 53.6 percent of college graduates under the age of 25 were unemployed or, if they were lucky, merely underemployed, which means they were in jobs for which their degrees weren't necessary. Philosophy majors mull questions no more existential than the proper billowiness of the foamed milk atop a customer's cappuccino. Anthropology majors contemplate the tribal behavior of the youngsters who shop at the Zara where they peddle skinny jeans. 
Students: Give us your outlook on future job prospects and the value of a college education. What is college for? To gain skills for future employment? Immerse oneself in a field of study? Experience character-defining events? Something else? If you are a current college student or recent graduate, are you satisfied with the path you've taken? Why or why not? If you are neither in college now nor a college graduate, do you aspire to earn a college degree? Are you considering a less traditional route to earning one than going straight from high school to a four-year college?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
Employment Outlook Bleak for College Graduates
        
The Politics of Student Loans
        
What Have You and Your Family Accomplished Together?
        
How Do You Archive Your Life?
        
On the Road to Recovery? Analyzing Economic Indicators

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); LUXURY GOODS (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) college; economy; employment; personal growth; Student Opinion

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1067 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Not Wanting Jobs

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Too many Americans -- and their leaders -- seem relatively unconcerned with high levels of unemployment, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
A significant number of American voters seem to believe that the unemployed don't really want jobs because they would prefer to live off unemployment insurance or other social benefits. 
These are the voters that many Republicans (and some Democrats) are reaching for when they propose to "welfarize" unemployment insurance - imposing requirements for volunteer work or blanket drug tests. 
Many such voters are also drawn to a particular austerity strategy my fellow Economix blogger Casey B. Mulligan laid out last week: cutting taxes for high earners and cutting subsidies for low earners. This strategy makes perfect sense if you believe that most people who are struggling to pay their bills aren't trying hard enough. 
This argument appeals for several reasons. It absolves believers of any responsibility for other people's hardships. It lends credence to the assertion that the labor market would work just fine if it weren't jammed up by a social safety net. It lays the blame for persistent unemployment squarely on President Obama, who has urged extensions of unemployment benefits and other forms of public assistance. 
And this argument holds a partial truth: some people probably do shirk, letting access to unemployment benefits, food stamps or disability insurance reduce their job search efforts.

But the number who fall into this category is small, and so are the overall effects, especially compared with the loss of output, effort, motivation, and well-being that results when people who need a job can't find one. 
The social safety net is not a hammock that workers can luxuriate in. In a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted last fall, two-thirds of those receiving benefits said they were not enough to pay for basics like housing and food. Another poll conducted by National Public Radio and the Kaiser Family Foundation about the same time found that only 22 percent of the long-term unemployed were receiving unemployment benefits. 
One widely cited study published by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco compares workers covered by unemployment insurance and those who were not (such as new entrants into the labor market) between 2005 and 2010, and found that extended unemployment benefits could not account for more than eight-tenths of one percentage point of the increased unemployment rate in the later years. 
A paper by Jesse Rothstein, former chief economist at the Department of Labor and currently a professor of public policy and economics at the University of California, Berkeley, asserts that extensions of unemployment insurance added at most two-tenths to six-tenths of a percentage point to the unemployment rate. 
Keep in mind that using unemployment insurance to search longer for an appropriate job is not shirking work - and can lead to improved skill-matching in the labor market.
Many unemployed workers have sought adult education programs to help them retool, only to find little public support for their efforts. A report by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities indicates that federal funds for career, technical and career education in fiscal year 2012, adjusted for inflation, had dropped 23 percent below the level in 2006. Welcome to the waiting list. 
The unemployed want jobs badly enough. But many Americans don't seem to care much about helping them get some. 
Job growth slowed significantly in March, and unemployment above 8 percent has become the new normal. Republicans believe that further deregulation can solve the problem; Democrats seem fearful of any major public initiatives. 
Paul Krugman has consistently and forcefully asserted that unemployment in both the United States and Europe is disastrously high. But economists who agree with him haven't found a very loud megaphone. 
One of the best efforts to publicize the unemployment problem takes place in coffee shops that many Americans can't afford. Starbucks reminds its customers - right at the cash register - of the need to create jobs and solicits their assistance through a community investment campaign. Why haven't more big-name chief executives joined Howard Schultz of Starbucks in this effort? 
Bruce Springsteen's recent album, "Wrecking Ball," laments our land of broken dreams. But its elegiac treatment of working-class endurance gives it a romantic rather than rebellious tone. 
The Boss sounds great singing "We Take Care of Our Own." The problem is, it's not clear that we do.
I wonder if we ever will. 

        
How Unemployment Benefits Became Twice as Generous
        
Has the 1996 Welfare Reform Been Reversed?
        
Marital Status, the Safety Net and the Recession
        
Mean-Spirited, Bad Economics
        
Testing for Need

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRENDS (72%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); FOOD SECURITY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (66%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Daily Economist; discouraged workers; employment; long-term unemployed; Nancy Folbre; politics; skilled workers; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; welfare; work incentives; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (63%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (53%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1068 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Monday Reading: Act Now To Go To The London Olympics

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Act now to get London Olympics tickets, half of new college grads jobless or underemployed, making progress against clutter and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
In a hopeful sign, health spending is flattening out. (National)
        
Conversation 24/7 at Atlanta barber shop. (National)
        
Electronic prescriptions reduce errors. (Business)
        
Want to go to the Olympics? Act now. (Travel)
        
The new family dinner conversation. (Sunday Styles)
        
Dealing with student-loan debt when seeking a mortgage. (Real Estate)
        
A flying carhas a checklist before take-off. (Automobiles)
        
A business columnist's "faith" based retirement plan. (Opinion)
        
In search of apps for television. (Business)
        
How one hospital bent the cost curve. (Economix)
        
Agency upgrades inquiry into rust in Freestar minivans. (Wheels)
        
Diabetes in obese kids hard to treat. (Well)
        
Daily activitytied to lower Alzheimer's risk. (Well)
        
Steroid shotsno more effective than placebo for back pain. (Well)
        
Half of new college grads jobless or underemployed (Choice)
        
Heathrowsurvival tips. (In Transit)
        
Some private schools sue for tuition when families withdraw. (New York)
        
Data harvesting at Google not a rogue act. (Bits)
        
Making progress against clutter. (Well)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); STEROIDS (77%); MINIVANS (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); OBESITY (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (53%); DIABETES (53%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%) GEORGIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1069 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: The World's Unbanked Poor

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: A World Bank report finds little access to financial services among much of the world's population, a condition that itself may perpetuate poverty. 

 BODY:
After the global financial crisis, banks may not be viewed as the most trustworthy organizations, but generally they are considered a safer place to keep money than stowing it under a mattress.
 A new World Bank report shows that the proportion of adults who have an account at a bank, credit union or other formal financial institution in high-income countries is more than double what it is in developing countries -- and suggests that the very lack of such an account may perpetuate poverty.
"Giving people a safe, affordable place to save their money is important," said Leora Klapper, lead economist in the finance and private sector development research group at the World Bank and an author of the report.
The study, based on a survey of 150,000 adults in 148 economies conducted by the Gallup Organization, estimates that there are 2.5 billion adults around the world who do not have a formal account, and that about 65 percent of them said they did not have enough money to use one. 
 "Formal accounts and savings may help poor people smooth their consumption and weather unexpected events such as unemployment, accidents, illnesses and deaths without necessarily resorting to expensive debt," Ms. Klapper wrote in an e-mail. "Financial inclusion enables poor people to save and to responsibly borrow - allowing them to build their assets, to invest in education and entrepreneurial ventures - and to improve their livelihoods."

There are some countries - including Cambodia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Guinea, the Kyrgyz Republic, Turkmenistan and Yemen - where fewer than 5 percent of adults have a formal financial account.
Banking habits differed by region. Among people who are living on less than $2 a day, 27 percent of those in South Asia and East Asia have some kind of formal account. In the Middle East and North Africa, only 6 percent of those surviving on less than $2 a day do.
 There is also a gender gap. In developing economies, men are much more likely to hold a formal account than women: 46 percent of men in these countries report having an account, while only 37 percent of women do. 
 The United States stands out for the proportion of its poorest residents who do not have an account at a formal financial institution. More than a quarter of those in the poorest quintile in the United States do not have an account, compared with just 3 percent of that quintile in Australia and Britain, and 9 percent in Canada. 
 Ms. Klapper said that among those who do not have bank accounts in the United States, more than two-thirds are women while a quarter are immigrants. And 46 percent cited lack of trust as a reason. 
 Although having a formal account typically helps people save more safely, even those who don't have formal accounts put aside money for future use. 
 According to the report, 36 percent of those polled had saved or set aside some money in the previous 12 months. Not all of that money was going to bank accounts, of course. In wealthier countries, people also use various investment products and in developing countries, residents used community-based savings clubs.

        
Rising Food Prices Push Millions Into Poverty, Study Says
        
If There Is Interest, Children Will Learn
        
Are 'Feminine Problems' Keeping Poor Girls Out of School?
        
M.I.T. Economist Wins John Bates Clark Medal
        
Bring Your Questions for Pedro Conceicao, U.N. Development Expert

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); MEN (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WOMEN (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); WRITERS (69%) banking; developing countries; Poverty; unbanked; World Bank; Banking and Financial Institutions; Third World and Developing Countries; United States

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: World Bank

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1070 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Morning Buzz, April 30: A Fight Over $150 Million in Tips

BYLINE: HANNAH MIET


HIGHLIGHT: What we're reading in The Times and elsewhere, including articles about New York's economic outlook and a legal battle between Indian tribes and a county district attorney. 

 BODY:
Since a casino opened at Aqueduct late last year, offering vastly richer prizes, 30 horses have died racing there, a 100 percent increase in the fatality rate over the same period the previous year. Many of the horses had been injected repeatedly with pain medication in the weeks before their breakdowns, according to a review of veterinary records by The New York Times.
The first column of the 100th floor of 1 World Trade Center will be hoisted into place Monday afternoon, bringing the tower to a height of 1,271 feet, which will make it the tallest building in New York City.
Emmis Communications, the owner of WKRS, or KISS-FM, announced on Thursday that its 98.7-FM frequency had been leased to ESPN, which would begin broadcasting at midnight on Sunday. "The long, fun journey is over," said Bob Slade, who was news director at KISS-FM, one of the city's most prominent African-American radio stations.
An S.U.V. driver lost control on the Bronx River Parkway on Sunday, sending her vehicle over the guardrail, where it plunged 60 feet to the ground. The vehicle's seven occupants, spanning three generations of a Bronx family, were killed on impact.
The color of the city's new taxi for boroughs outside Manhattan was unveiled by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. In the mayor's eyes, the bright, light green hue was an "apple green."
The jury was expected to begin its deliberation Monday in the trial of Adis Medunjanin, a Queens man accused of participating in the subway bombing plot, in District Court in Brooklyn. Four admitted terrorists took the stand as cooperative witnesses for the government in the case, testifying that they had sworn to fight on behalf on Al Qaeda.
Crushed garbage cans hang from the ceiling above mounds of plastic oxygen tubes, used hospital masks, aluminum cans, industrial cables and other junk that is all illuminated by rainbow-colored lights in "Commissioned Installation," a solo show by the artist Chin Chih Yang, which opens at FiveMyles gallery in Prospect Heights on Saturday. [Brooklyn Paper]
New York rated last in terms of its economic outlook in an annual report, "Rich States, Poor States," by the American Legislative Exchange Council. [New York Post]
Manhattan real estate brokers journeyed to Downtown Brooklyn last Wednesday to view the new luxury penthouse lofts at Belltel, which start at $1.2 million. [DNA Info]
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is giving approximately 30 real estate companies, law firms and accountants another chance to return to the Empire Zone tax break program they were kicked out of three years ago. [The Post-Standard]
Waiters and state politicians are fighting a bill that would allow catering companies to keep $150 million in tips, which were automatically included on customers' checks, that they charge the companies haveillegally pocketed. [Daily News]
Roughly $2 million in tobacco and cigarettes taken from the St. Regis Mohawk tribe is sitting in a warehouse in Rotterdam, N.Y., the center of a legal battle between Indian tribes and the St. Lawrence County district attorney. [Times Union]

        
Morning Buzz, April 27: The Rise of 1 World Trade Center
        
Morning Buzz, April 26: A Protest Against Tuition
        
Morning Buzz, April 25: Bird Strike Forces Emergency Landing
        
Morning Buzz, April 24: The Nets Leave New Jersey
        
Morning Buzz, April 23: Officials Oppose Wal-Mart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); WITNESSES (86%); MAYORS (86%); TERRORISM (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (74%); TESTIMONY (69%); JURY TRIALS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); BOMBINGS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); AL-QAEDA (63%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (63%); CATERING SERVICES (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); LEGAL SERVICES (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%) Morning Buzz

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1071 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Experimental Cocktail Club: American Drinks by Way of Paris

BYLINE: FLORENCE FABRICANT


HIGHLIGHT: A new bar on the Lower East Side is the work of three Frenchmen who are fascinated with American cocktail culture. 

 BODY:
Rome de Goriainoff, one of the French partners in the Experimental Cocktail Club Lower East Side, which opened Friday, has more in common with the stars of New York's cocktail culture than a taste for well-made drinks. Like some of his new peers, he is also a fugitive from the banking business. 
But it was American-style cocktails that inspired the group (which includes Pierre-Charles Cros, who studied economics, and Olivier Bon, who studied fashion) to open their first bar and lounge in Paris five years ago under the same name.
 "We saw so much diversity in drinking in New York, it was fascinating," Mr. de Goriainoff said. "There was no cocktail culture in France, and what people were drinking was bad quality. None of us had real professional experience before we started the E.C.C. We did our first professional experience by creating our own jobs, and in that respect we are very American-spirited."
The Paris original, furnished with vintage odds and ends, has no more than 25 seats, and bartenders who would look at home in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, with their caps and suspenders. They mix drinks like the Memphis sour, made with Rittenhouse rye, red wine, lemon, bitters and paprika. The group owns three cocktail lounges and a wine bar in Paris - all with different names because "the French don't like chains," as Mr. de Goriainoff put it. There is also an Experimental Cocktail Club Chinatown, in London. 
For New York, the partners have decorated a larger space in somewhat late-19th-century style, with patterned wallpaper and a pressed tin ceiling. "We thought this look would reflect the history of this neighborhood," Mr. Cros said. 
The menu lists 14 cocktails made by Nicolas de Soto, most of which are extremely complex, like the Curious Prescription, made with reposado tequila, pear eau de vie, manzanilla sherry, lime juice, habanero bitters and homemade salted caramel mezcal syrup. But the partners do not want the cocktail menu published. "It should be a surprise to the customers who come in," Mr. de Goriainoff said. 
There are several Champagnes by the bottle and one beer. Some tidbits, like Scotch eggs and plates of cured meats and cheeses, are provided by the nearby Fat Radish restaurant, which has an English bent. 
Still, the partners are so focused on this side of the Atlantic that they have opened an American-style steak house, the Beef Club, in a former butcher shop in central Paris. Mac and cheese, a burger and Caesar salad share the menu with cte de boeuf and rump steak. 

        
Ex-Worker Says Spitzer's Corner Exploited Him
        
Landbrot, a German Bakery Times Two
        
Christian Vautier: Right-Bank Sweets on the Lower East Side
        
Caffe Vita, a Seattle Staple, Squeezes Into Manhattan
        
The Frankies' New Daughter: Francesca

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); WINE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); JOB CREATION (67%); CONFECTIONERY (66%); CHEESE (65%); MEAT STORES (65%); MEATS (64%) Experimental Cocktail Club; lower east side; Drinking

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1072 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: A Bunch of Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of Sports Illustrated

BYLINE: DEAN ROBINSON


HIGHLIGHT: The knowledge I gained from reading every last word of Sports Illustrated. 

 BODY:
I took my game to the next level last week when I read Sports Illustrated cover to cover. I just took it one word at a time. Let's go to the highlight reel. ( mean I'm )
SINGLES
Philip Humber Pitches Perfect Game for the White Sox
Humber, 29, who was drafted third overall by the Mets in 2004, joined Chicago before last season after being waived twice in a month. 
The Washington Nationals' Principal Owner, Mark Lerner, Is the Son of a Washington Real Estate Magnate, Rich
"Scouting and player development is the only way to build a reputable, long-term consistently winning organization," says [G.M. Mike] Rizzo. . . . The effort took money, which the Lerners had, as 
FOUL BALLS
So, Not Too Many Athletes Are Using H.G.H., Right?
Just two years ago, weight-lifting watchers were calling Pat Mendes the "world's strongest teenager" after he bench-pressed more than 500 pounds. Now the 21-year-old top-ranked American lifter has another distinction: . . . . The test was first used at the 2004 Olympics, but because of a limited detection window, there were no positives found until the British rugger Terry Newton was caught in '10. The technology, however, has improved rapidly, and 
The Los Angeles Kings' Captain, Dustin Brown, Used to Have Sean Avery as Teammate, Bully
According to L.A. players and coaches from that era, Brown's lisp was not Avery's primary target. Avery also zeroed in on Brown's girlfriend - now his wife - a slender, fresh-faced girl-next-door-type from their hometown, Ithaca, N.Y. "I am not a trophy wife," says Nicole Brown, who has been with her husband for almost a dozen years (and married to him for five). "By any means."
The San Francisco 49ers Sign Chris Owusu as a Free Agent After No One Picks Him in the N.F.L. Draft
Chris Owusu was Stanford's No. 1 wide receiver and top kick returner when his senior season was cut short on Nov. 5. On that day he was taken from Stanford Stadium by ambulance after sustaining his second concussion in three weeks and third in 13 months. . . . [An unnamed N.F.L. general manager] says, "He's off our board. If you draft him you're going to be under the microscope the whole time. Every time he gets hit, it's going to magnified tenfold."
The N.F.L. Has a Few Legal Enemies
, claiming the league failed to adequately treat concussions and educate players about potential long-term consequences of brain trauma. (The lead plaintiff in that case, the former Falcons safety Ray Easterling, shot himself to death last Saturday at age 62, after years of battling depression and dementia.)
3-POINTERS
Carmelo Anthony Channels Mr. Incredible: "I Work Alone"
According toe Synergy Sports, That is an astounding number, considerably higher than Anthony's isolation rate of 33% for the season, the highest in the league.
LeBron James's Pain
On the night last June when the Mavericks beat the Heat in Miami for the N.B.A. championship, [LeBron] James drove to his house in Coconut Grove and did not come out for two weeks. "I couldn't watch TV because every channel - doesn't matter if it was the Cartoon Channel - was talking about me and the Heat," James says. 
LeBron James Getting Over His Pain
James isn't just coping; he is completing one of the finest all-around seasons in the N.B.A.'s modern era. His player efficiency rating of 30.6 leads the league by more than four points, and he is holding opposing small forwards to an anemic efficiency rating of 10.4, according to 82games.com. . . . James is attempting fewer three-pointers than ever while making them at a higher clip (36.2 percent). He is grabbing more rebounds in part because he is spending more time inside. His game log is a litany of near triple doubles. , two years before his first title.
LeBron James, Twitter Deity
.
GOLAZZOS!
Clint Dempsey Is Doing Pretty Well Playing Soccer in England's Top League
No American has been in a scoring zone like the one Dempsey has inhabited since the start of 2012: 13 goals in 17 matches, including two hat tricks in the space of two weeks in January. . . . And he earns his goals. Only one of his 22 come from the penalty spot, compared with nine of 33 for Rooney.
Dan Patrick Talks to the Los Angeles Lakers' Andrew Bynum
DP: Last time you got an autograph?
AB: I'm a big soccer fan. Pau just got me a jersey from Real Madrid
with all the autographs on it.
DP: Who's your favorite soccer player?
AB: Didier Drogba is my favorite right now.
DP: 
AB: People can't take it away from him. And he can finish.
Italian Soccer Fans are . . . Appassionato, or Something

        
Nine Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of the New Yorker
        
Four Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of Real Simple
        
Six Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of New York Magazine
        
Six Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of Vice
        
Eight Things I Learned From Reading Every Last Word of The Economist

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEIGHTLIFTING (90%); ATHLETES (89%); BASEBALL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); RANKINGS (67%); BRAIN INJURIES (64%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (62%); SHOOTINGS (60%); BRAIN (50%) every last word; sports illustrated; Sports Illustrated

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO WHITE SOX (58%) Sports Illustrated

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1073 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Is the Toyota Camry Unfairly Vilified?

BYLINE: JONATHAN SCHULTZ


HIGHLIGHT: Though it has a reputation for being remarkably capable, the Camry, reviewed in Sunday's Automobiles section, cannot seem to shake its reputation for being a dullard. 

 BODY:
Ezra Dyer's review of the 2012 Toyota Camry, which appeared in Sunday's Automobiles section, touched a nerve among some Wheels readers.
Mr. Dyer concluded that the Camry, America's best-selling car in 13 of the last 14 years, remained a remarkably capable, if uninspiring, conveyance that faced fierce competition from more distinctive corners of the midsize segment. He cited the coming 2013 Ford Fusion, which is to be available as a plug-in hybrid, and the diesel-powered Volkswagen Passat as cars that would offer greater fuel economy and, in the Fusion's case, more expressive styling than the Camry mustered.
But some readers criticized Mr. Dyer for his assessment. Reader sepsi wrote, "Dear Ezra --- YOU buy a car that looks like an Aston Martin. I'll buy a car that does everything I need it to do." Marco Lalo noted that the Camry was a better product for the powertrain features it did not offer. "There is the added advantage of reliability: simply put, turbochargers are not as reliable and with direct-injection, there is the issue of valve carbon deposits (possibly.)," he wrote.
Still others questioned whether American buyers were sufficiently informed to cross-shop sedans that took different approaches to delivering efficiency and performance. "Direct injection, diesel, and turbo charged engines means nothing to them," reader jc wrote. "What matters to them is safety, reliability, and fuel efficiency."
The Camry has long been a favored dartboard for car enthusiasts in thrall to qualitative features like soul and balance -- terms that may be used in discussions of midsize sedans that sell in significantly lower volumes, like the Mazda 6 and, well, the Mazda 6.
But is the Camry unfairly singled out? Over time, has the car's popularity come to resemble hegemony?
And if you're considering the 2012 Toyota Camry, would you cross-shop it against the coming Fusion, the Passat, the Hyundai Sonata, the Honda Accord or other sedans mentioned in Mr. Dyer's review?
Please share your thoughts in the comments below.

        
2012 Volkswagen Beetle TDI: Oil-Burning Bug to Have Debut at Chicago Auto Show
        
Reviewing the Volkswagen Passat
        
Volvo Plans Plug-In Diesel Hybrid for 2012
        
Diesel-Powered Chevy Cruze May Be a Tough Sell
        
Ford Show Truck Is Drafted Into Service After Texas Tornadoes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SEDANS (89%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); SPORTS CARS (68%) diesel; Ford Fusion Hybrid; plug-in hybrid; TDI; Toyota Camry; Volkswagen Passat; Automobiles; New Cars; Reviews

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012



1074 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: The Pleasures and Perils of the Passive

BYLINE: CONSTANCE HALE


HIGHLIGHT: Surprise! Sometimes the passive voice is a useful tool. 

 BODY:
The word gets a bad rap. We throw it around to vent about friends who can't stand up for themselves, and we combine it with to describe those who express anger indirectly rather than just blurting it out. When it comes to writing, many of us are haunted by this word. Maybe a high school teacher forbade "passive constructions." Or we recall authorities like Strunk and White, who famously told us to "use the active voice."
There is certainly some merit to this rule of thumb; some of the worst writing around suffers from inert verbs and the unintended use of the passive voice. Yet the passive voice remains an important arrow in the rhetorical quiver. After all, it exists for a reason. 
But first, what, exactly, is it? 
Most (though not all) verbs have a property known as "voice," which can be either active or passive. The voice of a verb is different from both the common notion of voice (the timbre produced by a person's vocal cords) and the literary notion (the ineffable way the writer's words work on the page). 
The American Heritage Dictionary defines the grammatical notion of voice as the form of a verb that shows "the relation between the subject and the action expressed by the verb." In the active voice, the subject performs the action. In the passive voice, the subject is acted upon.
In a classic English sentence in the active voice, the subject starts the show, followed by a dynamic verb. The subject is the , the person or thing taking the action: Sometimes there is a direct object: The sentence is pointed and precise. The action flows briskly from the subject, through the verb, to the object.
Let's switch to the passive voice (and to some less intimidating reading). Here, the subject is the of the action: . The agent may lurk elsewhere in the sentence, perhaps in a phrase that begins with , as in . (The children are doing the adoring.) The agent might also be assumed, or remembered from a previous sentence: . (We remember that Lucy brought the book home, so we figure she is a voracious reader - although her siblings might have sneaked a peek at the pages.) Finally, the agent might be unknown: . (Lucy might have been the carrier, but it might have been Mom, Dad or Aunt Leticia.) 
When the passive voice makes sense
While we rarely want our sentences to flatten out, the passive voice can allow us to underscore intent and direct the reader's attention.
For example, the passive voice works well when we intend to emphasize that a subject is not a "doer" but a "done-to." When Germaine Greer, in "The Female Eunuch," wanted to stress what a woman gave away in a traditional marriage, she used the passive voice: 
"The married woman's significance can only be conferred by the presence of a man at her side, a man upon whom she absolutely depends. In return for renouncing, collaborating, adapting, identifying, she is caressed, desired, handled, influenced." 
Greer underscored her point - that marriage saps a woman's power, requiring her to trade active engagement for passively standing by - by putting those final verbs into the passive voice. By using the passive voice in the first sentence, Greer also kept our focus on the married woman, the most important part of her passage, instead of the presence of the man by her side. 
The passive voice is also useful when you don't know who the agent is. We often see this in news stories. works best when it's clear that the baby survived unscathed but not whether a neighbor or a firefighter rescued her. 
Finally, the passive voice can make for catchy rhythms in ads, telegrams or other terse forms. "Made in the U.S.A." puts the emphasis on the , not the . And it fits on the label of a T-shirt better than "Farmers in Texas grew the cotton for this shirt, and seamstresses in a Los Angeles factory stitched it together."
When, in 1897, Mark Twain heard that his obituary had been published, he cabled the United States from London. The often-quoted version of his cable relies on the passive voice for its punchline:
"THE REPORTS OF MY DEATH ARE GREATLY EXAGGERATED"
The pitfalls of passive construction
The general, and often misleading, labels of "passive" and "passive construction" are often used to refer to everything from deploying listless verbs to overrelying on the passive voice. While I believe writers deserve maximum flexibility, it does help to pay attention to the most direct and dynamic way to cast a sentence.
Often a dynamic verb lurks in a clunky noun, and by excavating it we can perk up the prose. Why when you could just ? Why write instead of ? 
Such constructions are all too common in academic writing. This description of an anthropology program at the University of East London takes the life out of studying human life:
"It will be of relevance to those desirous of adding legal understandings to these perspectives. It will also be of interest to students wishing to proceed to a doctorate in the anthropology of human rights and related areas." 
Then there is the passive voice. Some people rely too heavily on it. When lawyers want to please the court, they follow scads of lawyers before them (). Business writers who want to stick to convention reflexively use the passive voice (). And C.E.O.s hide behind the passive voice after carrying out harsh actions () or to blunt criticism ("Finally, it must be said that today's economic crisis is the result of a lot of mistakes made by a lot of people ...").
The most pilloried use of the passive voice might be that famous expression of presidents and press secretaries, "mistakes were made." From Ronald Ziegler, President Richard M. Nixon's press aide, through Presidents Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton - not to mention Attorney General Alberto Gonzales - pols have used the passive voice to spin the news, avoid responsibility or hide the truth. One political guru even dubbed this usage "the past exonerative." 
Whether you are writing the next novel, a scholarly paper, a legal brief or a brief Tweet, be aware of the voice of your verbs. Try letting each sentence tell a little story, with an agent right there at the start. Set your protagonist in action. Do you want him, as Hamlet would say, "to take arms against a sea of troubles," or would you rather he be left lying flat on his back, leaving his destiny up to someone else?
To experiment with the voice of verbs, try this little exercise: Find someone who is stuck waiting for something and watch how they wait. Perhaps it is a teenager waiting for a bus, or a customer in line at the post office. Perhaps it is a child, eager to open the birthday presents. Does the passive voice underscore the person's passivity? Can you animate even passivity by using dynamic verbs in the active voice? What verbs do the trick? Which voice works best?

        
Make-or-Break Verbs
        
Skyscapes
        
Desperately Seeking Synonyms
        
Readers' Favorite Mini-Narratives
        
The Sentence as a Miniature Narrative

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); LITERATURE (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (57%) passive voice; Writing; writing lessons; Reading and Writing Skills; Writing and Writers; Draft

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012



1075 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Fur, Feathers, Ivory and Bone: The U.S. Military and Endangered Species Souvenirs

BYLINE: C. J. CHIVERS


HIGHLIGHT: A recent study examining war and contraband finds that American soldiers deployed abroad have helped create a niche industry for wildlife products made from imperiled species. 

 BODY:
The links between conflict and contraband are as old as war, and have been the subject of extensive research. The reasons are easy to grasp, if sometimes hard to trace. Wars disrupt economies and can create acute shortages, often while encouraging lawlessness and the breakdown of borders and institutions. In these circumstances, smugglers are both in demand and can thrive.
Much of the public conversation about contraband and conflict centers on either products of high value - Iraqi and Chechen oil, West Africa's so-called blood diamonds, the heroin trade extending from Afghanistan's poppy fields - or on goods essential to organized violence, including weapons, ammunition and food.
Now a recent study examines war and contraband from an atypical perspective: the illicit trade in wildlife products as souvenirs for Western soldiers. The study, published this year in the journal Biodiversity and Conservation, sketches market forces that are at once highly visible and mostly unexplored. The summary of those market forces is that Western soldiers on deployments have both relatively high salaries and access to bazaars, and they've helped create a niche industry on overseas bases and outposts for goods made from imperiled species. This is the souvenir trade with a dark side.
The study, "Wildlife trade products available to U.S. military personnel serving abroad," is behind a paywall at the journal's Web site. But one of its five authors, Heidi Kretser of the Wildlife Conservation Society, posted a text-only version last week on the society's Web site. It recounts a series of surveys of American soldiers and tours of bazaars on bases in Afghanistan that point to a robust trade in wildlife products, often happening in plain sight.
Surveys held in Fort Drum in 2008, for example, found that more than 40 percent of the soldiers had either seen wildlife products bought or had bought them themselves. Fewer than 12 percent of those surveyed had heard of the international convention regulating such trade. And tours of Afghan bazaars on military bases from 2007 to 2009 found myriad products suspected of being derived from imperiled species, including the pelts of snow leopards and other endangered cats on hats and garments, or bits of ivory and bone inlaid on the handles of souvenir knives. 
Anyone who has spent time on bases abroad has seen the markets, stocked with a typical mix of apparently pirated DVDs, crude hookah pipes, rugs, chess sets, pottery, jewelry and more. In some places Cuban cigars are common, notwithstanding their status under American law as forbidden for citizens. Such is the nature of this peculiar demand - dense concentrations of soldiers and contractors with middle-class Western wages, away from home, in search of exotic distractions or gifts.
Ms. Kretser has trained soldiers headed overseas. She said that in her many interactions with the military, she found that most of the illicit wildlife trade she and her peers documented resulted from ignorance, not ill intent. Soldiers and their commanders, she said, were usually not aware that the goods offered on sale on military bases often had roots in illegal hunting, trapping or trade, and that international law and convention forbids the items' sale or transfer over international lines.
"The feedback I usually get when I give training is that the soldiers had never known that this was an issue," she said.
To help soldiers and their commands understand the issues and the laws, the society has produced a 19-minute training film, "Caught in the Cross Hairs," which they hope the American military will require soldiers to watch before they deploy. (The film, narrated by the actor Edward Norton, is online here.) So far, Ms. Kretser said, several units have shown it to soldiers heading overseas.
It is worth noting that while military bases and outposts have created fresh demand and even institutionalized trading posts, the trade in illicit wildlife parts and products is hardly a new phenomenon, or limited to the buying sprees of soldiers seeking end-of-tour souvenirs. Afghanistan's poverty, and international demand for rare wildlife curios, assured that poaching existed long before the current war, persisted under the Taliban's rule and was part of Afghan markets long before the American military buildup.
In early 2002, the Times photographer Joao Silva and I briefly scoured bazaars in and near Jalalabad and Kabul, looking for contraband. We also looked in on the shops then on Chicken Street, a retail corridor in Kabul that largely sells to foreigners, to document what was on offer, and what Afghan vendors might produce if asked to show their finest goods. Over tea and sweets, we were regaled with snow leopard pelts, and once, the aging skin of a lion, along with pucks of hashish and firearms -- often faked replicas of old British patterns offered as being torn from a dying British soldier's hands in the empire's last decades. There was no constellation of American bases back then. The number of Western soldiers was few. Who were these items offered to? Aid workers, diplomats, journalists, contractors - a body of ex-pats who remain part of the same demand as soldiers today. 
One difference is the sheer size and modern efficiency of the demand. A paid foreign presence (military and nonmilitary) that easily crests hundreds of thousands of people a year has created purchasing power of a much larger order; moreover, access to on-base postal offices mean that untold quantities of illicit products can be sent home with few hassles and inexpensive fees.
Ms. Kretser noted that the Pentagon helped pay for the film's production and distribution, contributing more than $250,000 to date from the so-called Legacy Resource Management Program, which seeks to bring the military into compliance with environmental laws and convention.

        
On Bases, Hotels Go Civilian
        
A Unit, Near Last, in the Military Withdrawal From Iraq
        
A Rain That Could Stop a Platoon
        
Military Announces New Social Media Policy
        
Chuck Norris and Henry V in Port-a-Johns. With Armored Penguins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (93%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); MILITARY BASES (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ZOOLOGY (78%); MAMMALS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (77%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); WILD CATS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (74%); CATS (73%); DIAMOND MARKETS (70%); WRITERS (68%); MILITARY TRAINING (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); HEROIN (55%) bagram; endangered animals; military bases; smuggling; Afghanistan

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



1076 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Occupy Wall Street Brings May Day to America

BYLINE: FRANKIE EDOZIEN


HIGHLIGHT: May Day has been a day of celebration and protest for workers in countries around the world, but never in the United States, where it has smacked of socialism. The Occupy movement aims to change that. 

 BODY:
NEW YORK - For decades, workers in Europe, South America and China have been celebrated with an official holiday on May Day. 
The United States, however, has not followed suit. (And Britain and Canada have tried to wash out the holiday's leftist hues.) Even though the day's origins date to a riot in Chicago in 1886 known as the Haymarket massacre, labor is celebrated Stateside in early September.
Socialists and trade union movements have long used May Day as a protest day. And on Tuesday, May 1, the Occupy movement will attempt to bring 125 U.S. cities to a standstill in commemoration of International Workers Day.
The Occupy Wall Street movement is orchestrating what its supporters hope will be a nationwide general strike with students, workers and everyone who is an employee skipping work. 
Their lofty goals also include urging people not to buy anything that day. It has been billed as "A Day Without the 99 Percent." 
The protesters are pressing for economic justice while railing against large corporations that are perceived as not paying their fair share of taxes, an example which of Charles Duhigg and David Kocieniewski detailed in The Times on Sunday.
The Occupy movement, which began late last summer, remained boisterous through the fall until many occupiers were ejected from parks around the country and it became too cold to continue to camp outside. Now, rising temperatures are drawing more and more of the disgruntled out of hibernation.
For the Big Apple, numerous protests and marches are planned to disrupt business as usual on Wall Street. New York's billionaire mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, said Sunday that the city's police force is ready and city officials are prepared to protect the rights of demonstrators.
But he warned: "They don't have a right to disrupt other people and keep other people from protesting or just going about their business, and we will do as we normally do - find the right balance."
The mayor, who made his fortune on Wall Street before founding Bloomberg L.P., advised demonstrators to try being entrepreneurial. "Go out and try to do something and make it better. Help kids get a better education, start a business. There's a lot of things - lot of ways you can volunteer and help make this city better and this country better."
Protest organizers, who say they are leaderless, didn't immediately respond to Rendezvous' request for comment, but they are putting together a slew of educational workshops Tuesday billed as the "Free University." 
University lecturers are being asked to move their classes to a Manhattan park as part of the skills-building process.
The May Day actions will kick off other demonstrations, most notably around the North Atlantic Treaty Organization summit meeting in Chicago. Some 28 world leaders are expected at the NATO gathering a> on May 20.
When it was first announced that a Group of 8 meeting would precede the NATO conference, antiwar groups and other protesters had hoped for a chance to have multiple protests while the world's eyes are on Chicago. 
But President Barack Obama has moved the G-8 summit meeting to Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland. Occupy supporters will also head there. 
Whether the plan succeeds or flops, it remains unclear if it will spark any change.

        
Off the Beaten Track: Six Guys in a Starbucks in Bahrain
        
Sorry Seems to Be the Hardest Word
        
Damage Control (Again) in Afghanistan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); RIOTS (76%); CITIES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); POLICE FORCES (58%) May Day; Occupy Wall Street; protests; Strikes; Bloomberg, Michael R; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Labor and Jobs; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; New York City; View From Europe

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Occupy Wall Street

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (81%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (81%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012



1077 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Where Is the Recovery?

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: the shale boom, falling home prices, incorporating fun and six ways not to start a business. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: What's the Fed To Do?
The Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee says the economy is expanding moderately. A former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation warns that the Fed is fueling a financial bubble. The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and a Times columnist, Paul Krugman, battle it out. Josh Bivens says that the United Kingdom's double-dip recession is proof austerity doesn't work. Henry Blodget says it's official: Keynes was right. Peter Diamond and Emmanuel Saez believe that increasing tax rates is part of a sensible deficit-reduction strategy. Jared Bernstein summarizes the economic impact of raising taxes on high-income households. Social Security's projected shortfall date is moved up to 2033. President Obama slow jams the news.
The Economy: The Shale Boom
Russell Investments updates its state-of-the-economy dashboard. Among accountants, confidence in the global economy improved substantially in early 2012. USA Today reports that some economists are upping their 2012 forecasts. A Wells Fargo strategist says the economy is looking up. So far this quarter, 79 percent of American companies have beaten earnings forecasts. Mark Perry predicts a shale-based economic boom: "low-cost energy provided primarily by shale gas production advances will almost certainly contribute to an investment boom across the U.S. economy." Barry Ritholtz says the economy is where it's supposed to be. But Marc Faber says the fiscal condition of the United States is a "catastrophe." Michael Snyder lists 22 red flags that indicate serious doom. A new study by Manta finds that most small business owners didn't hire a single employee in the first three months of 2012. Jeffrey Rosen asks where the small-business recovery is.
The Data: Housing Prices Fall 
Growth cools (although consumer spending is up). Orders for durable goods fell significantly (pdf) in March. Home prices drop for the sixth straight month, and new home sales fall, too. Capacity tightens as conditions get tougher for shippers. But truck tonnage inches up, as does traffic volume (pdf). Manufacturers' earnings are up. Weekly unemployment claims remain high.
Management: Incorporating Fun
An entrepreneur finds out what happens when all of his wildest dreams come true. The Economist predicts that the digitization of manufacturing will transform the way goods are made - and change the politics of jobs, too. Ever wonder what happy people have in common? Barbara Corcoran says that incorporating fun into your business is essential: "It is the way to get the best ideas and bring together your employees." Lewis Love says that employing international students will enhance the quality of your staff: "They possess a strong knowledge of their subject area but lack the time and experience required to secure a top-paying full-time position." Kentin Waits says complaining is good. Groupon's chief executive drinks too much beer. This frog thinks he's human.
Marketing: Keep It Brief
Minda Zetlin tells how one fledgling company signed up 40 Fortune 500 companies as customers. A new study shows that business blogging is in decline as corporations turn to social media. Stanford Smith says there are five content-marketing assets you have forgotten about, such as: "Every business has a marquee customer that is a reliable source of recommendations and referrals. Turn this customer into a celebrity. Don't be surprised if your customer makes your content the centerpiece of their marketing, attracting additional prospects for free." YouTube announces Google AdWords for video. A "webinine" explains how to build an e-mail sign-up form. John Twohig says the "multi-directional expressive capability" model is spooking business and traditional marketers. Here's what your Klout score really means. Jill Konrath explains why she can't catch a taxi -- and why you can't sell. Art Sobczak wears an apron and teaches us something about sales. Here are seven card-connected programs that merchants can use to promote loyalty and customer engagement. And here are five ways to create shareable Pinterest pictures for your business. Phillipa Kiripatea offers seven ideas for getting your customers moon-walking back in the door. If you get this customer service agent on the phone, please keep it brief. A father captures his daughter from birth to age 12.
Around the Country: A Fracking Boomtown
The Harlem Business Alliance is helping small businesses establish a stable foundation. In Oregon and elsewhere furniture manufacturing is on the rise. Michigan's economic activity index is the highest since 2005, and economic optimism increases across Minnesota. The Ohio steel industry, led by a drilling boom in the oil and gas industry and a resuscitated demand for cars and light trucks, is growing again. Mark Ebner writes a fascinating account of life in a North Dakota fracking boomtown. Illinois is swimming in $9 billion of unpaid debt. Fishing guides in Louisiana say their businesses are gasping for air two years after the oil spill. South Dakota is the best state (pdf) for business taxes. The Boston Beer Company expands its "Samuel Adams Brewing the American Dream" program for small businesses. An upcoming forum in Charlotte, N.C., asks if the size of our businesses really matters for social media success. BlackEnterprise.com and Dell open a small-business university. The Small Business Administration honors 18 small businesses and six individuals.
Around the World: Mexicans Leave
A mini-revolution is happening for Arab technology businesses. German manufacturing confidence is up. These emerging-market city-dwellers account for more than 60 percent of the world's gross domestic product growth. Small Business Labs reports that the "reshoring" of American companies continues. For the first time since the depression, more Mexicans are leaving the United States than entering. A girl falls through the pavement in China, and a Ukranian girl turns herself into Barbie.
Start-Up: Heavy Metals
Investors from Google plan to mine asteroids for heavy metals (and a family enjoys "Bohemian Rhapsody"). Jay-Z releases a Facebook game. Denise Kustka celebrates age by introducing the Cougar Sisterhood. Here are 25 up-and-coming start-up chief executives in New York. Matthew Toren explains what to do when your friends want to be co-founders: "have that difficult discussion about how each of you will proceed before you start up. In many ways starting a business is like getting married, you don't want either to end in divorce." Penelope Trunk explains how to overcome your biggest barrier to starting a business. Carol Tice offers five tips for surviving your start-up's first year, including: "choose your location carefully." Yanik Silver offers seven tips for naming your business, including: "Beware initials. They are so boring." Here are six ways not to start a business.
Finance: Hating Obama
Crowdsource investors are advised to beware of fraud. Facebook sees a drop in revenue prior to its offering. Hundreds of small banks still can't afford to pay off their Federal bailout loans. Kevin Drum explains why Wall Street "hates" President Obama. Small-business loans are reportedly on the rise. Jay Snider warns not to make these five business plan mistakes, including typos: "They're unprofessional and signal a lack of attention to detail, and when an investor has a stack of plans to read, that could be all he or she needs to see to make the decision to pass your business over."
Red Tape Update: Health Insurance
The president of the National Federation of Independent Business says that health care and taxes are the top issues for small businesses. A study finds fewer employers are offering health insurance. George Lundberg shares six ways to save a trillion health care dollars. Health care apps soar in popularity. Dan Danner asks why the National Labor Relations Board is targeting small businesses. Research from Sage North America concludes that most small-business owners don't consider their outside accountant a business partner. Owners of roll-your-own tobacco shops fear that a new law will put them out of business.
Technology: Going After Dropbox
July 9 could be doomsday for your PC or Mac. Here are seven tips for women in the tech industry. Apple's profit rises 94 percent. Philips introduces a 20-year light bulb. Staples introduces a managed print services program to help small-to-medium-size businesses control their print network. Facebook provides details for its Windows Phone app. Both Google and Microsoft take on Dropbox. A new survey finds that 72 percent of information workers find their productivity is reduced by having to search for, install, and upgrade software on their PCs. A "Mad Men" special: USB typewriters for the office. Salesforce.com is seeking a thousand integrators. Facebook announces a good developer seal of approval.
The Week's Bests
Things to consider before buying a business. Dave Thomas lists a few questions, such as, "How would you best describe your customer base? Talk with the current owner and get a snapshot of the customers he or she currently has. Going into a potential sale without knowing who you might be working with is a major mistake. You also will want a measuring stick for the local economy where you will possibly be purchasing a business so that you're not going into a potential disaster scenario, whereby you come out the loser financially."
Reasons not to discount. Vanessa Merit Nornberg says, "Discounts proclaim, in a silent but deadly manner, that what you are selling is worse than, or at best equivalent to, the product of your competitor - and customers are smart enough to know it. Relationships are built on the confidence your customers feel in your products, and the assurance they get from buying what they know to be quality. Discounts wipe out these two brand essentials and leave your business in a very risky position in both customers' minds and the marketplace."
 Today's Questions: How many of you think that doing a daily deal cheapens your brand?
Marks Group

        
This Week in Small Business: The Cookiegate Special
        
This Week in Small Business: Raising Caine
        
This Week in Small Business: Meatball or Sausage?
        
This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate
        
This Week In Small Business: Captain America Returns

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HOME PRICES (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); WRITERS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (68%); DURABLE GOODS (66%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (66%); FACTORY ORDERS (66%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (63%) economy; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%); JARED BERNSTEIN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1078 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Flooding Alerts in Britain

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Thousands of homes are left without power as trees topple. 

 BODY:
Dozens of flood alerts are issued as Britain is drenched by rain and buffeted by high winds after an unusually dry winter. [Sky News]
Drawing on readings by sensors aboard a NASA satellite, researchers find that large wind farms slightly increase local temperatures near the ground as the turbines' rotor blades pull down warm air. [The Wall Street Journal]
After not mentioning climate change once in his recent Earth Day proclamation, President Obama says he will be "very clear" in arguing on the campaign trail that the nation must "take further steps to deal with climate change in a serious way" that are compatible with economic growth and job creation. [The Rolling Stone]
Five southern African countries will establish a regional research center to support cross-border research on climate change in sub-Saharan Africa. [AllAfrica.com]

        
On Our Radar: Floating Wind Turbines
        
You Will Be Assimilated (if You Wish)
        
On an Urban Heat Island, Zippy Red Oaks
        
On Our Radar: BP Settlement Dispute
        
On Our Radar: Cautious Support for British Fracking

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WEATHER (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); EARTH DAY (87%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); JOB CREATION (68%) Britain; climate change; Floods; livery cabs; New York City; President Obama; Wind Power; Politics and Policy; renewable energy; Weather Extremes

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFRICA (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1079 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Has the Correspondents' Dinner Become a Nerd Unity Conference?

BYLINE: DAVID CARR


HIGHLIGHT: The arm-candy arms race at the White House Correspondents' Association dinner now includes digital firepower. 

 BODY:
Late on Saturday evening at the Bloomberg-Vanity Fair party after the White House Correspondents' Association annual dinner, Judd Apatow, a Hollywood director-producer who was a long way from home, asked who might be interesting to talk to. There were a lot of folks to pick from, including David Axelrod, President Obama's political strategist; the retired general and former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell; and New York's mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg. He was standing near Eric E. Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, so an introduction was made.
"Wow, I had to do a double take when I heard his name," Mr. Apatow said, adding later that the company is "so central to my life. It threw me. It was like suddenly being introduced to the person who invented fire."
It takes a lot to impress Mr. Apatow, and the rest of the people at the party, a mix of government, entertainment and, yes, technology luminaries. This year, the correspondents' association dinner scanned as a summit between giant warring factions that set aside differences, if not agendas, and came together to party deep into the night. Just last January, traditional entertainment companies and their allies in government sought to rewire the Internet to slow down pirates. Hollywood is still mad that technology threatens cherished and lucrative distribution models; and even though one of the pieces of antipiracy legislation, SOPA, was derailed, Silicon Valley remains miffed that politicians tried to apply Beltway convention to the consumer Internet.
Still, that all seemed in the distant past this weekend. Google co-hosted a warm-up party with The Hollywood Reporter on Friday evening at the W Hotel -- "I heard Lindsay will be here in five minutes!" gushed one young lady as she and pals stared into their BlackBerries at the party in vast basement of the W. ABC partnered with Yahoo for a predinner cocktail at The Washington Hilton. Tech luminaries -- including Jack Dorsey, a founder of Twitter; Dennis Crowley, a founder of Foursquare; and Elon Musk, a founder of PayPal -- were at the dinner and also at the constellation of parties that have grown up around the event, such as The New Yorker party at the W on Friday night, Tammy Haddad's brunch-on-steroids on the day of the event, and the MSNBC party following the dinner.
Washington, as we all know, is the seat of brute power, but it will never be mistaken for a cool place. (Give or take the president, who seems to have the cool thing going on, perhaps not always to his advantage.) The mischief and merriment at the dinner began back in 1987 when Michael Kelly, then a reporter for The Baltimore Sun, brought Fawn Hall, Oliver North's shred-happy assistant, to the dinner. 
An arm-candy arms race ensued and the correspondents' dinner has since borrowed heat by bringing in performers from television and film. This year, Lindsay Lohan, Kim Kardashian and members of the cast of "Glee" and "Modern Family" were in attendance.
As noted by Jimmy Kimmel, this year's host, what had been a hermetic celebration of political journalism has become a maypole for all sorts of interests: "Here is one room we have members of the media, politicians, corporate executives, advertisers, celebrities. Everything that is wrong with America is here tonight."
And now tech companies, which have generally kept their distance from government, have jumped into the froth.
"I think they are definitely the new cool kids on the block," said Beth Kseniak, executive director of public relations at Vanity Fair. "Dennis Crowley was our dinner guest, as was Jack Dorsey. Most of them have also been our guests at the Oscar party."
After the bruising fight over SOPA -- that is, the Stop Online Piracy Act -- Washington was apparently in the mood to work out some sort of dtente with the burgeoning tech sector, and given the potential regulatory overhang on their core businesses, the interest was requited.
"Silicon Valley understands the importance of Washington now, especially post SOPA," Mr. Schmidt wrote in an e-mail following the weekend. "For example, there are a number of conflicting cyber-security laws being discussed and it's important to get those right. To deal with Washington, you have to be in Washington including its social scene which is, to say, robust."
Google and other technology companies have beefed up their lobbying presence in Washington, but an open bar at a festive event celebrating journalists expresses fealty and interest in a way K Street lobbyists really can't. Besides, it makes for a fun spectator sport: haters can find plenty to work with in all the Beltway bacchanalia, and having a sitting president make jokes about eating dogs and putting one on the top of Air Force One is always going to light up the Twitter board.
Take a step back and various lions making nice with all manner of lambs is not as odd as it sounds. The correspondent's dinner carries the nickname #nerdprom on Twitter, in part because it is run by journalists who were very smart, earnest and industrious, but were probably not invited to the cool table in the high school cafeteria.
Similarly, the lions of Silicon Valley were likely not social adepts earlier in life, but now find themselves in receipt of another kind of cachet. One group of nerds can reach deep into a lengthy piece of legislation and pull out significant implications while the other group can construct entire kingdoms out of lines of code. 
Kate Nocera of Politico said the phrase "First time cool" was often used in Washington to describe the powerful who were probably finding social traction to be a new experience in their lives. (A few of us gathered for some chain-store Italian down the street during the dinner and then rushed back to the hotel lobby to watch the jokes on television. The New York Times decided back in 2007 that it would no longer participate in the dinner.)
In an e-mail, Mr. Crowley of Foursquare suggested that Washington's growing obsession with tech was a simple matter of heat-seeking, an extension of the cool-by-osmosis that has policy wonks breaking bread with reality stars.
"Both Hollywood and print media has long been lusted over for being creators of platforms to capture attention like movies and magazines while the new creators are the folks making stuff that causes people to pay attention to the tiny screens in their pockets -- Twitter, Zynga, 4Square and Tumblr," he wrote.
Part of what is under way is not just a transfer of heat, but a kind of aspirational yearning. Both government and Hollywood are struggling to find a connection to the average America, and technology companies' intimate, central role in their lives is something most politicians and studio heads can only covet. Digital realms seem to be the exception to an economy and future that seems pinned down by ugly realities. Hope sells, hope floats, hope looks lucrative and juicy.
Certain truisms still obtain. Jonathan Wald, producer of Piers Morgan's CNN talk show, dubbed the end-to-end parties as a "celebrity petting zoo." Those same celebrities view the event as a bit of a caper not to be taken seriously -- "Apparently someone robbed me of my memory bank. Was there a party last night?" Woody Harrelson said on Sunday after making the rounds throughout the weekend.
And no matter how many jillions the techies make and how many paradigms they shift, they and everyone else will never be as magnetic as George Clooney. Past 2 a.m. on Sunday morning, Mr. Clooney took his time gamely working through the queue near the door of the French ambassador's residence, home of the Bloomberg-Vanity Fair party. The powerful and monied, boy and girl, Luddite and not, all thronged around him, waiting for their moment with the coolest guy on campus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (82%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (76%); ONLINE PIRACY (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%) Schmidt, Eric E; Google Inc; White House Correspondents Assn; Washington (DC); Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); PAYPAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; White House Correspondents Assn

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (52%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DAVID AXELROD (56%) Schmidt, Eric E

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1080 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Milken Conference Kicks Off With Panel on Global Growth

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: Representatives from Wall Street, including Vikram Pandit of Citigroup and Leon Black of Apollo Global Management, are planning to attend what has become a West Coast Davos. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The first rule of the Milken Conference is: Don't call it the Milken Conference.
The proper name for the Los Angeles confab, as a large-lettered sign in the event's media room indicates, is the "Milken Institute Global Conference."
But the Global Conference, as it is properly shortened, will always be known to some simply as "Milken," in homage to the man who founded the Milken Institute, Michael Milken.
Mr. Milken is, of course, the high-flying high-yield bond pioneer of the 1980s, who had a well-documented run-in with the law, spending 22 months in jail after pleading guilty to several securities violations. 
These days, the former junk bond king is known nearly as well for the institute's annual conference, a free-market idea fest. Now in its 15th year, the conference draws major C.E.O.'s, elected officials and leaders in nearly every field to a Los Angeles hotel, where they exchange ideas and business cards, pontificate on the state of the global economy and occasionally make news. It is known as a sort of West Coast Davos, with luminaries assembled on panels bearing names like "Trends in World Trade" and "Come Fly With Me: Inside the New Aerospace Industry."
As a nod to Mr. Milken's days as a financier, the conference has a sizable Wall Street contingent. Citigroup's Vikram S. Pandit will be here, as will Leon Black of Apollo Global Management and David Bonderman, the founding partner of TPG Capital. 
A coterie of financial industry experts from both the public and private sectors, including a handful of Federal Reserve bank presidents (we counted Dallas, San Francisco, Chicago and Atlanta), and a few nonfinancial celebrities (like Stedman Graham, a businessman who is best known as Oprah Winfrey's boyfriend) are also expected to attend.
The first major panel on Monday morning was "Where Will Economic Growth Come From?" In the Beverly Hilton's grand ballroom, hundreds of jet-legged attendees chugged coffee while listening to a panel of experts debate the state of the global economy. 
Moderated by CNBC's Maria Bartiromo, the panel included Mohamed A. El-Erian of Pimco, Terrence A. Duffy, the executive chairman of the CME Group, Kevin M. Warsh of the Hoover Institution, and Willem Buiter, the chief economist of Citigroup.
Much of the debate fell along familiar lines. (Emerging markets, fiscal tightening, Europe and the 2012 presidential election all made appearances.) Mr. El-Erian said Europe's conundrum "basically comes down to three issues: too little growth, too much debt and too little differentiation."
As wonky economic conversations do, talk on the panel quickly turned to China. Is the country's growth real? Is it possible to invest wisely in China given political challenges in the nation? 
While pointing out some of the challenges facing China, Mr. El-Erian remained upbeat.
"This is a country that has the tools and ability to navigate a difficult journey," he said.
Mr. Warsh of the Hoover Institution agreed, pointing out that China's "economic transition is happening at the same moment as the political transition."
Mr. Buiter sounded a note of caution, saying China's growth did not mean foreign investors would necessarily fare well.
"It's a country where you go if you really know what you're doing," he said.
Mr. Duffy, the curmudgeon on the panel, drew laughter as he said, "I think I'll sell China right now, after listening to these three gentlemen speak."
Side note: DealBook, running on too little sleep, has decided to compile a Global Conference dictionary filled with all the silly corporate jargon heard on panels at the event. 
So far, the dictionary includes "optionality," "effectuate," and "directionalization." We'll update the list as more gems crop up.

        
Judge Widens Antitrust Suit Against Private Equity Firms
        
Birthdays Are Still Big in Buyout Land

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); TRENDS (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (70%); GUILTY PLEAS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%) David Bonderman; Kevin Warsh; Leon D. Black; Maria Bartiromo; Michael R. Milken; Milken Institute Global Conference; Mohamed A. El-Erian; Mohamed El-Erian; Terrence A. Duffy; Vikram Pandit; Willem Buiter; Bartiromo, Maria; El-Erian, Mohamed A; Warsh, Kevin M; Milken Institure; Los Angeles (Calif); Financial Services; Milken Institute Global Conference 2012

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); CME GROUP INC (55%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (54%); TPG CAPITAL LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Milken Institure

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); CME (NASDAQ) (55%); APO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: MARIA BARTIROMO (86%); KEVIN WARSH (85%); MICHAEL MILKEN (79%); VIKRAM PANDIT (71%); LEON BLACK (67%); OPRAH WINFREY (52%); DAVID BONDERMAN (50%) Bartiromo, Maria; El-Erian, Mohamed A; Warsh, Kevin M

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1081 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: In New Video, Obama Campaign Reminds Voters of 2008 Job Losses

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The video, called "Forward," opens with a red line heading sharply downward during 2008, ending with the words "4.4 million jobs lost." 

 BODY:
For months, senior White House aides have been privately banking on a chart of monthly job losses and gains that shows steep declines during President George W. Bush's last year in office and sharp improvement under President Obama.
The chart-- shared widely online by Mr. Obama's allies and on the president's Facebook page -- shows the 2008 job losses in Republican red and the later employment gains in Democratic blue.
Now, Mr. Obama's campaign is going one step further in a Web video that animates the chart's decline during Mr. Bush's last year in office.
The video, called "Forward," opens with a red line heading sharply downward during 2008, narrated by dire news reports of the economic collapse. In the last year of Mr. Bush's tenure, "Foreclosures spike 112 percent," "Lehman Brothers goes bankrupt," "Dow plunges 778 points," "unemployment at 26-year high."
The 2008 red line ends at the bottom with the words "4.4 million jobs lost."
Mr. Obama's seven-minute video goes on to document what the president's advisers insist is a sharp turnaround. But it is the first 38 seconds that signal one of the fundamental arguments of the president's re-election campaign as he prepares to battle Mitt Romney.
The case Mr. Obama is making is one of timing. 
He wants voters to view his presidency through a wide lens that includes the last year of his predecessor's term. From that broader perspective, Mr. Obama argues, the economic recovery looks more profound -- and it happened on his watch.
"On the day Barack Obama took office, America had already lost 4.2 million jobs," the narrator of the video says. "An economic disaster. The worst in a generation."
Mr. Romney's campaign wants voters to pay attention to a different timeline altogether. 
In recent days, Mr. Romney's advisers have been citing statistics that de-emphasize the economic collapse of 2008 and focus instead on the first few months of Mr. Obama's term, when the economic recovery had yet to take hold.
On the stump, Mr. Romney often says that 92 percent of the job losses during Mr. Obama's tenure have been among women, a statistic that is true as far as it goes but ignores the job losses -- mostly by men -- during 2008 and the first month of 2009.
The chart that Mr. Obama's advisers like so much offers some help to Mr. Romney -- if voters look only at the part in blue.
January, February, March and April 2009 were terrible months, with more than 700,000 jobs lost during each of those months. It was not until the spring of 2009 that the job losses fell sharply. And actual job growth did not start until the beginning of 2010.
Mr. Romney's advisers point out that the number of jobs lost during Mr. Obama's tenure is greater than the number gained.
"Has the gap gotten worse or better under Barack Obama? It's gotten worse," one of Mr. Romney's senior advisers said during a recent conversation. "It's a statistical reality."
Still, as the president's advisers know, the picture for voters depends on what part of it they see. A picture that includes 2008 makes it easier for the president and his allies to make the case that it was Mr. Bush's policies that were in play during the first few months of 2009, not Mr. Obama's, which had largely not been passed and implemented.
Mr. Obama's new video largely skips over the first difficult months of his presidency, moving quickly to the months when the economy started improving.
"Over the last 25 months, 4.1 million new private-sector jobs," the narrator in the video says, showing a picture of the chart. "And while there's still more to do, there's been real progress."

        
In Ohio, Romney Hails Two Entrepreneurs Named John
        
Romney Backs Extending Low Interest Rates on Student Loans
        
Now, the Pre-Pre-Buttal and Post-Buttal
        
Obama Campaign's New Ad Attacks Romney and the Oil Industry
        
In Wisconsin Speech, Romney Makes His Case Against Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FORECLOSURE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INTERNET VIDEO (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) 2012; jobb loss; obama; Presidential Election of 2012; romney; video; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Economic Conditions and Trends; Elections

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012



1082 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Where China Is a Hot Topic, Even at Lunch

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: At a lunch panel at the Milken Institute Global Conference, having Xi-Qing Gao on stage provided an opportunity to discuss China's growth with the president of the China Investment Corporation, the nation's largest sovereign wealth fund. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The Milken Institute Global Conference has a reputation for being dominated by financiers in suits. But although a dress code of business attire is unofficially enforced, DealBook has met many attendees who don't work on Wall Street. (We particularly liked our conversation with the founder of a technology firm who had strong feelings about United States maritime laws.)
While attendees dined on roast beef and sipped Fiji water, a lunchtime panel assembled on stage. The panel consisted of Chris Viehbacher, the chief executive of Sanofi Aventis; Barry Sternlicht, the chief of Starwood Capital Group; Xi-Qing Gao, the president of the China Investment Corporation; and Eike Batista, the Brazilian billionaire.
Mr. Viehbacher, whose experience atop the French pharmaceutical company Sanofi has given him a window into Europe's problems, said he did not think the Continent's austerity measures were moving quickly enough or cutting deeply enough.
"People don't change because they see the light," he said. "They change because they feel the heat." 
Unlike the morning panels, in which China was mentioned for no other apparent reason than the existence of an unspoken rule that all panels at Milken must mention China, having Mr. Gao on stage provided an opportunity to discuss the nation's growth with an executive of its largest sovereign wealth fund.
"China's economy is going to go in a healthy direction," he said. 
But Mr. Gao, acting at times as an unofficial spokesman for China, faced some opposition from fellow panelists over the country's labor practices.
When Mr. Batista mentioned FoxConn, saying that the electronics manufacturer's low labor costs made it "impossible to compete" for the business of companies like Apple in Brazil, Mr. Gao joked, "You mean in our sweatshops?"
After the nervous laughter died down, Mr. Gao clarified: "We're treating our workers better now."
To prove the point that labor costs in China had risen considerably in the last decade, Mr. Gao said that the price of hiring a nanny had jumped tenfold.
The tone of the discussion surrounding China, as on other Milken panels, was equal parts fearful and admiring. When Mr. Sternlicht, the Starwood Capital chief, expressed concern that the United States could not be counted on for steady growth, he turned to Mr. Gao with a smile.
"It's the first rule of real estate: never beat up your banker," Mr. Sternlicht said of China. "We need you guys."
As lunch wound down, conference organizers announced they were drawing the winners of a charity raffle. The holder of the winning ticket would get two Porsches -- a coupe and an S.U.V. -- and $75,000 in cash.
DealBook did not stick around to hear the winner's name.

        
Milken Conference Kicks Off With Panel on Global Growth
        
Preet Bharara, a Most Influential Person

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SWEATSHOPS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); ADMIRALTY LAW (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (50%) Barry Sternlicht; China Investment Corporation; Chris Viehbacher; Eike Batista; Gao Xi-Qing; Milken Institute Global Conference; Xi-Qing Gao; Economic Conditions and Trends; China Investment Corp; Milken Institute Global Conference 2012; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (91%); STARWOOD CAPITAL GROUP LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: China Investment Corp

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (91%); SANF (BIT) (91%); SAN (PAR) (91%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (57%)

PERSON: EIKE BATISTA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012



1083 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2012
Correction Appended

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Dewey & LeBoeuf Said to Encourage Partners to Leave

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: At least 10 more partners left the New York law firm Dewey &#038; LeBoeuf on Monday as it tried to stave off collapse by persuading its lenders not to force it into bankruptcy. 

 BODY:
7:39 a.m. | Updated 
Dewey & LeBoeuf, the New York law firm crippled by financial mismanagement, an exodus of partners and a criminal investigation of its former chairman, encouraged its partners on Monday evening to look for another job, according to an internal memo.
The firm's leadership has been scrambling in recent days to stave off failure by merging with another law firm and persuading its lenders not to push it into liquidation. "All partners," said the memo, which was reviewed by The New York Times, "are encouraged to seek out alternative opportunities."
The memo represents the latest chapter in a tumultuous period for Dewey, which has come apart after disappointing profits forced its leadership to slash partners' compensation. An accelerating wave of partner defections since January - more than 85 of its 300 partners have left, including at least 11 on Monday - has imperiled the firm.
Last week the firm announced that the Manhattan district attorney had begun a criminal investigation into allegations of wrongdoing by Steven H. Davis, the firm's former chairman, who was stripped from his leadership posts this past weekend.
If Dewey were to file for bankruptcy, it would most likely lead to the firm's dissolution, industry experts say. Unlike an operating company with physical assets that can reorganize in a bankruptcy, Dewey - a private partnership whose only real assets are lawyers - will be left with nothing to restructure once its lawyers walk out the door.
"There are no plans to file bankruptcy," Martin Bienenstock, the head of Dewey's restructuring practice and a member of the office of the chairman, said late Monday. "And anyone who says differently doesn't know what they're talking about."
Before the recent departures, Dewey employed about 2,000 people - roughly 1,000 lawyers in 25 offices across the globe and the other half support staff including legal secretaries, mailroom clerks and paralegals.
Dewey was formed through the 2007 merger of Dewey Ballantine and LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae. The two firms created a 1,300-lawyer behemoth with about 25 offices across the world and revenues of about $1 billion, making it the largest law firm merger in history.
Driving the deal was Mr. Davis, a Yale-educated energy-industry lawyer who had spent his entire career at LeBoeuf and had ascended to its chairmanship. A genial and low-key leader, Mr. Davis had a vision to create a firm with the size and international footprint to compete in an increasingly competitive marketplace.
"You have to be bigger," Mr. Davis said in an interview at the time.
They called the new partnership Dewey & LeBoeuf, honoring a commitment that Dewey Ballantine had made to the estate of Thomas E. Dewey, the former New York governor who once ran the firm. When Mr. Dewey died in 1971, his will said that the firm could no longer use his name. The firm struck a deal with the estate to continue to use "Dewey," so long as it always appeared first.
When the combination was struck, the partners had a saying that "LeBoeuf married up, and Dewey married rich." The century-old Dewey, a storied firm with a strong mergers-and-acquisition practice, was hurting financially after numerous partners left after a failed 2006 merger with Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe. LeBoeuf, on the other hand, was financially sound, churning out lucrative work in its leading practices representing utilities and insurers.
Despite the old-school name, Dewey jettisoned traditional notions of a law firm partnership. Instead, Mr. Davis promoted a star system where top-producing partners had guaranteed contracts paying them millions of dollars a year. Some partners, the so-called rainmakers who brought in the business, made more than 10 times Dewey's lowest-ranking ones, the service partners who earned a salary of about $300,000 drafting legal briefs and proofreading merger agreements.
The timing of the merger, struck in August 2007, could not have been worse. Just as the firms were combining, the credit markets seized up. A year later, Lehman Brothers collapsed, setting off the global financial crisis and a precipitous decline in the demand for legal services. Dewey, like other large law firms, struggled through the deep recession.
Yet in 2010, anticipating a business recovery, Mr. Davis began a hiring spree, snaring partners from other firms by luring them with huge multiyear contracts. Last year alone, Dewey brought on 37 lateral partners. On just one day in January 2011, the firm brought on seven partners from three firms. Each was accompanied by a guaranteed pay package and a glowing press release.
The problem was that Dewey could not afford to pay its existing partners, let alone these new ones.
Cash was already running low; partners were already owed tens of millions of dollars in back pay. The firm had fallen so behind on collecting unpaid legal bills that management sent out an e-mail offering partners free iPads and iPhones if their clients paid them on time.
Last October, as it became clear that Dewey was not going to meet its lofty projections for 2011, Mr. Davis held a partners' meeting to discuss the firm's finances. He dropped a bombshell: The firm had extended guarantees to nearly 100 of its lawyers, creating compensation commitments that it could not possibly meet. Partners with large contracts who were already owed millions of dollars would be asked to take additional pay cuts.
By March, Dewey's partners were already in revolt when they crammed into a conference room for another meeting. Jeffrey L. Kessler, a top sports-industry lawyer who represents the National Football League players' union, took the microphone and delivered, according to people present, the law firm equivalent of a locker room pep talk.
"There's a crisis of confidence here but the only thing that can sink the ship is us," Mr. Kessler said. "Instability is creating a problem but give us six months and people will be happy."
Yet the partners had already lost confidence in management's ability to save the firm. Groups of partners continued to jump ship, and the steep decline in its partnership ranks caused Dewey to breach covenants on its loans.
A dissolution of Dewey would be expected to result in ugly legal battles over money between creditors, bondholders and the partners owed back pay. In a bankruptcy proceeding, Dewey's partners could also be on the hook for millions of dollars in so-called clawback claims brought by creditors seeking to recover money.
Mr. Davis has hired Barry A. Bohrer, a criminal defense lawyer at Morvillo, Abramowitz, Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer, to represent him. On Sunday, Mr. Davis e-mailed his partners, defending his tenure as the firm's chairman.
"A dispassionate and disinterested review of the facts will confirm that I have not engaged in any misconduct," Mr. Davis wrote. "I did my best to navigate the firm through challenging and turbulent times, and I deeply regret our current situation."

        
With a Merger Unlikely, Dewey's Options Shrink
        
Once an Ambitious Law Firm, Reduced to Grim Dispatches

CORRECTION-DATE: April 30, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about troubles at the law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf erroneously cited, in some editions, one partner as being among those who had presented evidence to the Manhattan district attorney's office of possible financial improprieties by the firm's former chairman. Seth C. Farber, a former federal prosecutor, was not among the group of partners who presented such evidence. The article also misstated, in some editions, the size of a bond issue at the firm that partly matures next year. It is $125 million, not billion. An earlier version of this article also misplaced the first full reference to Steven H. Davis, Dewey & LeBoeuf's former chairman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); LAWYERS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MERGERS (89%); LAW FIRM MERGERS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); PARALEGALS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%) Dewey & LeBoeuf; Steven H. Davis; Davis, Steven H; Legal Profession; Manhattan (NYC); Legal/Regulatory; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Dewey & LeBoeuf

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (94%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (94%)

PERSON: STEVEN A DAVIS (91%) Davis, Steven H

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

 
