

601 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Grants Frozen, Theaters Improvise

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
The audience may not recognize them, but the signs of deep recession are scattered about the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey in Madison.
 The set -- walls, arches, topiaries -- for ''Twelfth Night'' is made mostly of shredded paper, to save money. Notes about the production have been cut from programs, to save paper. One of this season's shows was cut altogether. Jobs have gone unfilled, raises were halted and staff members took furloughs.
 And all that came before the latest bit of bad news: A few weeks ago, the theater -- along with all other arts organizations in New Jersey -- learned abruptly that the state had frozen its grants, as New Jersey's government grapples with an $8 billion deficit. The freeze came after a request from Governor-elect Christopher J. Christie to halt all discretionary spending; aid to municipalities was also affected. Some $12 million for about 200 arts groups -- including grants of up to $600,000 for 26 local theaters that are crucial to their financial health -- is on hold. 
 ''This is so life-threatening right now,'' said Bonnie J. Monte, artistic director of the Shakespeare Theater, a respected company in its 47th season. ''We have no money coming in. That money has been budgeted and promised to vendors. It's not just another cut. This is a death sentence for many, many places.''
 Tom Vincz, director of communications for the New Jersey Department of the Treasury, said that the freeze would be temporary, and noted that Gov. Jon S. Corzine was expected to make a budget announcement soon. ''This is not a cut; this a freeze,'' Mr. Vincz said. ''The funding is on hold. Anyone who is concerned about the status of their funding should pay close attention between now and Christmas, when the solutions will be finalized.''
 But leaders of arts groups are worried that even if the money is released, they will suffer drastic cuts in next year's budget. After all, the freeze comes after 18 months of extreme financial difficulty for regional and nonprofit theaters, not just in New Jersey but across the New York region and around the country. Along with significant drops in financing from foundations, local and state governments and corporations, some of these theaters have seen ticket sales suffer as families tighten their entertainment budgets.
 Theater directors have creatively tackled the hardship by offering promotions and discounts, producing plays with fewer actors and, when possible, relying on well-known, crowd-pleasing productions like ''42nd Street'' and ''Camelot'' (both recently staged at Goodspeed Musicals in East Haddam, Conn.). A chief goal was to keep the adjustments invisible to the audience. 
 At Hartford Stage, an award-winning nonprofit theater in Connecticut's capital, six jobs were cut, along with several performances. On Long Island, the Bay Street Theater in Sag Harbor has survived the year only because of the response to an urgent appeal for donations. And in Westchester County, the nonprofit White Plains Performing Arts Center postponed its production of ''Hello, Dolly!'' this year because of financial constraints. 
 In New Jersey, Maria Comella, a spokeswoman for Mr. Christie, said the governor-elect sent a letter to Governor Corzine asking him ''to take a series of steps'' until the new administration could assess the fiscal situation and make recommendations. Among them was the freeze on discretionary spending. Ms. Comella said that Mr. Christie, a Republican, did not get a response from Mr. Corzine, a Democrat; in addition to the arts financing, aid to municipalities has been frozen. 
 ''There are a lot of tough decisions and there will be cuts ahead,'' Ms. Comella said. ''Governor-elect Christie has formed a task force, and there are ongoing meetings with Treasury to get an accurate picture. At the end, the task force will put forward recommendations.''
 Financing for New Jersey theaters and other arts organizations had been relatively secure since 2003, when a law directed that a portion of the state's 7 percent hotel and motel tax go to the New Jersey State Council on the Arts, in part to avoid yearly legislative wrangling. The hotel tax raised $86.3 million in 2008, up from $84.2 million the year before, and the arts groups have generally received about a quarter of it; this year, officials say the revenue is likely to be about $74 million.
 ''There is a blanket assumption that if we stop funding the arts my property taxes will go down, and that is not the case,'' said David Lee White, the associate artistic director for Passage Theater in Trenton. 
 The Shakespeare Theater saw its $4.4 million budget drop by $300,000 this year. Ms. Monte said she was relying on $164,000 from the state this month to pay for printing, royalty rights, payroll and pension costs, among other things. ''While that doesn't seem like a lot, it is when you are operating on a down-to-the-bone budget already,'' Ms. Monte said. She said the theater had delayed announcing next season's program because Shakespeare productions require many actors and she was not yet sure what it could afford.
 Playwrights Theater, also in Madison, saw its budget drop to $850,000 from $1.1 million two years ago. John Pietrowski, the artistic director, said he had let some leases on a copy machine and a bulk mailing program expire, cut marketing spending by 45 percent, put on plays with small casts, reduced ticket prices and shared the production of the theater's first two shows this season with another theater. In addition to decreases in its foundation and government support, the theater's earned income, from ticket sales and class tuition, fell 33 percent. 
 ''We knew what we were up against,'' he said. ''It's not like we're a bunch of dolts around here. The majority of people I work with in the arts and theater are very savvy business people.''
 Mr. Pietrowski said he could live without the $115,000 state grant he expected this month -- until March. ''If it's not coming back, that's a whole different kettle of fish, and I can't tell you what would happen,'' he said.
 At the George Street Playhouse, a theater in New Brunswick that features original works, losing even $200,000 from last year's $4.2 million budget meant sharp repercussions, said its managing director, Todd Schmidt. Employees took salary cuts of 5 percent to 10 percent, and two positions were eliminated. The playhouse is waiting for its $125,000 state grant to make ends meet, Mr. Schmidt said.
 Even the McCarter Theater Center in Princeton, a regional powerhouse, is concerned about the situation.
 ''This is the cherry on top of the nonprofit sundae,'' Timothy J. Shields, the theater's managing director, said of the state freeze. ''This came as a complete surprise to us.''
 McCarter reduced its budget this year to $11.3 million, from $11.8 million in 2008. It laid off five employees, reduced travel and froze salaries. This month, the theater was expecting 85 percent of its $617,000 in grant money. Mr. Shields said that he was reluctant to back out of contracts with actors for the upcoming season, but that he was not sure where else he could cut. The center's education program, which includes after-school classes and summer residency workshops for budding playwrights, are vulnerable.
 ''We are sort of at our wits' end to figure out how we can get through this to produce the kind of theater that our audiences are used to,'' Mr. Shields said. ''It's extremely tough to balance the choices here that have to be made. If the state money doesn't appear, we are looking at a scenario that is very damaging.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAKE DO: Bonnie J. Monte, artistic director of the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey, on a set made mostly of shredded paper. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
GO ON: There is joy in ''A Christmas Carol'' at the McCarter Theater Center in Princeton, N.J. Backstage, there is worry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. CHARLES ERICKSON)
 SHOW: Cuts were made at the George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick, N.J. Above, Robert Cuccioli and Jane Alexander. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE) (MB8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (70%); JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2009



602 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; Pg. 44A

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Stumble Toward Senate Primary

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
James Warren is a longtime Chicago journalist and the publisher of The Chicago Reader.

 BODY:
Some Chicagoans grouse that President Obama has reneged on promises to return home regularly. Midway through a desultory, prickly United States Senate debate last week, I realized he might need to get back to help save his old seat for Democrats.
 It's almost as though the seat was covered by a secret term-limits restriction. Since 1992 we've had Alan J. Dixon, Carol Moseley Braun, Peter G. Fitzgerald, Mr. Obama and now Roland W. Burris, whose mediocrity and conceit helped make his selection by then-Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich so unseemly. Confronting doubts about his candor and fund-raising prospects, Mr. Burris opted not to run for a full term, though he can joyously engrave ''U.S. Senator, 2009-2010'' on the large mausoleum he has already built for himself in Oak Woods Cemetery. 
This leaves four Democrats in the Feb. 2 primary and, since Mr. Obama couldn't persuade the state's attorney general, Lisa Madigan, to run and surely win, it presents an unexpectedly problematic general election match against Representative Mark Steven Kirk, a moderate Republican. Only one of the Democrats has run for elective office, and three can thank inheritance and other family largess for making their candidacies possible.
 The debate spotlight was on Alexi Giannoulias, the state treasurer and front-runner, who is clearly improving as a candidate but given to a too-slick-by-half, frat-boy superficiality a la Mr. Blagojevich. David Hoffman, a nervy former federal prosecutor and former City of Chicago inspector general, is razor-sharp and self-confident to the point of projecting arrogance.
 Cheryle Jackson, president of the Chicago Urban League and a former spokeswoman for Mr. Blagojevich, is Carol Braun Lite, lacking the former senator's street savvy and knowledge of politics. And Jacob Meister, an unknown lawyer, has family riches, campaign offices statewide and, I presume, a hope that his opponents are all kidnapped by Election Day.
 Mr. Giannoulias's plan turns on name recognition and money. As he did for Mr. Obama's presidential run, he has so aggressively tapped a Greek-American base that his Federal Election Commission filing resembles the Athens phone directory: Konstantin Alexakis, Baltimore; Evangelos Ambatielos, Los Angeles; Nicholas Angelides, St. Louis; Demetrios Panoushis, Elmhurst, Ill., to name a few.
 Mr. Hoffman, a Yale graduate and former law clerk for Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, must be hoping the image of truth-seeking prosecutor combines with a Giannoulias meltdown. Mrs. Jackson's slogan could be, ''I'm black and a woman and they're not.'' As for Mr. Meister, who barely registers in independent polling, perhaps the visibility at least will help him find some new law clients.
 The breakfast gathering at the Union League Club heard rhetorical spitball fights between Mr. Giannoulias and Mr. Hoffman that did not reveal any larger political vision. Lost in the debate was any convincing discussion of the day's predominant economic fears.
 Mr. Hoffman so often restated the doubts about creaky Broadway Bank, the Giannoulias family-run institution in trouble over bad real estate loans, that the next debate should be held in the bank's lobby at 5960 North Broadway. Instead of a moderator, bring auditors from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The state treasurer is lucky that Broadway Bank's disarray became truly apparent only after his election and exit from the bank. 
 But what was most notable was Mr. Giannoulias's needless and peevish counterattack against Mr. Hoffman for having ''hundreds of thousands of dollars invested in stock with these big Wall Street banks that are protected by TARP money and taxpayers, and he's now using that money to fund his campaign.'' It was confusing and unconvincing.
 Who cares about the investment issue? said Dion Miller Perez, an unemployed father of three who had worked for a nonprofit community agency. Mike Flannery , the ace WBBM-Ch. 2 political reporter, had brought Mr. Perez to the debate as a two-legged, one-person focus group, and Mr. Perez indicated that corruption was not as relevant as the economy to a prospective primary voter.
 The treasurer was a no-show for a promised postdebate appearance before reporters. That left newsies to deal with a wacky accusation from Mr. Meister, who is gay, that Mr. Hoffman is anti-gay for mentioning that he's the only parent in the race.
 Regardless, if Mr. Obama still cares about a filibuster-proof Senate majority after he's done with health care and fixing the global climate, he might want to return home, have dinner with Oprah and work for whomever Democrats pick to run against Mr. Kirk.
 If it's Mr. Hoffman in an upset, his strength may be that he's least likely to embarrass the state. Then, again, Mr. Burris has set the bar so low that only a professional limbo dancer could get under it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); TERM LIMITS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (70%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARK STEVEN KIRK (58%); LISA MADIGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2009



603 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: A Few Triumphs Pierce the Clouds Of a Bleak Time

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
THE future may be bleak, but at least some architects can look back on the year with a sense of triumph.
 After more than a decade of design and construction delays, Zaha Hadid completed her Maxxi contemporary art museum in Rome, one of the most architecturally ambitious projects to rise there since the work for the 1960 Olympics, when Pier Luigi Nervi completed his Palazzetto dello Sport. The museum's sinuous concrete forms, which seem to draw energy from the surrounding streets, play a game of hide and seek with the neighborhood. Tucked mid-block between rows of nondescript buildings, it is less about the hard sell than the slow seduction.
 Jean Nouvel completed the Copenhagen Concert Hall, a glowing blue box emblazoned with fragmented images of performers that float dreamily across its surface. The ethereal quality of its skin, which is made of high-strength fabric draped over a steel frame, is a startling contrast to the solidity of the hall itself, which seems to have been carved out of an enormous block of hardwood. 
 And Toyo Ito, an architect whose work has been unfairly neglected outside his native Japan, received much-deserved recognition for a new stadium in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, built for the World Games. Its snakelike form, which uncoils along a once-neglected city park to frame one side of a vibrant public plaza, creates a comforting sense of enclosure while also offering distant views of the city's skyline.
 What all of these projects share, besides being splendid architecture, is an ability to infuse a drab, lifeless neighborhood -- whether it be a derelict postwar area at the far edge of Rome's historic center or a generic new development outside Copenhagen -- with a sense of joy. Like much great architecture, they create a sense of place -- of collective identity -- where there was none.
 New York too, a city that has been notoriously cautious about embracing contemporary architecture, seemed to turn a corner this year. Despite the fears and anxieties of many (including me) that rapacious developers would transform the High Line into a glorified mall, it has already become -- just five months after the completion of its first phase -- one of the most beloved public spaces in New York. Its colorful gardens, which cover a stretch of abandoned elevated tracks that run from the meatpacking district to Chelsea, prove that an alliance of government officials, activists, architects and landscape designers can sometimes influence a city as much as big-money developers.
 The academic building for Cooper Union on the Bowery, designed by Morphosis, is another reminder that the city hasn't entirely given up on ambitious architecture. Its bold concave metal facade, with a rip running down the middle to allow views of the bustling inside, reverberates with life. 
 What's more, it is contextual in the best sense of the word. The corner of the building lifts up toward the old Cooper Union Foundation Building in a gentle nod to the past. The tough materials -- concrete and perforated metal -- are a sensitive response to the Bowery's rough history.
 And a 30-minute walk to the south, the crinkled steel surface of Frank Gehry's 76-story Beekman Tower continues to rise despite worries over the project's financing. The 80-year-old Mr. Gehry's first skyscraper, it will reshape the downtown skyline, offering a counterpoint to the ornate terracotta facade of the 1913 Woolworth building, one of the city's most historic towers.
 But perhaps the greatest shift of all this year has been a renewed interest in infrastructure. Encouraged by the debates that surrounded the unveiling of President Obama's stimulus package, American architects, curators and students have thrown themselves into the task of rethinking the networks -- train lines, freeways, bridges, levees, ports and waterfronts -- that bind our communities together. 
 Thom Mayne and Steven Holl, two of the country's most celebrated architects, are completing books on the subject. The Museum of Modern Art's architecture and design department recently unveiled a plan to study how to create a more sustainable waterfront for New York. Other architects continue to reimagine the infrastructure of New Orleans, even though there is little chance that they will ever be implemented.
 And graduate schools across the country have been offering studio classes on infrastructure for the first time in decades. The most serious of these studies try to come to terms with deeply entrenched social issues, from racial and class segregation to shifts in the global economy.
 As architectural work dries up and graduate students begin to contemplate what could be a much darker future, the question is: Who if anyone will tap into this wealth of talent and ideas?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Manhattan the new Cooper Union building by Morphosis, left, has a rip down the middle, allowing views of the bustle inside
and Frank Gehry's Beekman Towers, above, is getting its crinkled steel surface. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IWAN BAAN
 GEHRY PARTNERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); OLYMPICS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KAO-HSIUNG, TAIWAN, PROVINCE OF CHINA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2009



604 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: ... and a Chief Committed to Engagement

BYLINE: By JAMES TRAUB

 BODY:
If there is a one-word handle that fits the conduct of foreign relations inBarack Obama's first year as president, it is ''engagement.'' The Obama administration has engaged with Iran, Russia, Burma, Sudan, North Korea. ''Engagement'' sounds harmless -- something any sensible administration would do (though the Bush administration apparently did far less of it).
 But what, in fact, doesPresident Obama have to show for ''engagement'' itself? And how do you keep score? He has just emerged from Copenhagen having brokered an agreement, however modest, on climate change. Does that count?
Engagement is shorthand for ''talking to your enemies,'' or at least to countries with which you have profound differences. The Bush administration did not literally ignore countries like Iran, but when you describe a country as evil while obliquely threatening regime change, most diplomats would say you are talking in name only. 
 That was why, in the CNN/YouTube debate of July 2007, the Democratic candidates were asked if they would, ''without preconditions,'' talk to leaders of states with which America has hostile relations. Mr. Obama said, ''I would,'' adding that it was a ''disgrace'' that President Bush hadn't done so.Hillary Rodham Clinton called that answer ''irresponsible and frankly naive.'' That remains the view of many conservatives as the policy unfolds, but centrist and liberal foreign policy experts have widely applauded the engagement policy. In the current issue of The American Interest, for example, Jessica T. Mathews, head of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, gives the president ''an unequivocal 'A' '' on this score.
 But the math required to hand out such grades is complicated. Engagement can fail with its immediate object, but still reshape the climate of opinion; it can succeed in warming deep-frozen relations, but at a cost not worth paying.
 If, in fact, President Obama has dispatched senior officials to talk to their counterparts in the most authoritarian states in the hope that treating them with respect will change their behavior, then events have so far proven him naive. Persistent attempts to draw the poison from our relations with Iran have had absolutely no effect on Iran's nuclear program, or its sponsorship of terrorism. The North Koreans remain similarly intransigent. Ditto Myanmar and Sudan.
 To some conservatives, engagement thus sounds like a euphemism for ''appeasement.''Max Boot, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, argues, ''There is a perception around the world that Obama is proceeding on bended knee to our enemies, and they're rebuffing us contemptuously.''
 Where, then, over the last year, has engagement actually advanced America's national interest?
 Iran is both the most important, and the most passionately disputed, case. Engagement here would seem to have been a failure -- but only if you take the policy wholly at face value. One senior administration official who was not authorized to speak on the record says that while the offer of engagement was ''never just an instrument or a ploy,'' and remains on the table, the very public effort to exhaust all available means of persuasion has helped move Europe, Russia and China toward a tougher stance.
 ''Iran had an alliance with Russia and China,'' he said, ''and they were in a confrontation with the West. That's not the dynamic anymore.'' Should Iran remain recalcitrant, he said, ''I remain convinced that we will get a resolution that Russia supports.''
 Indeed, the Russians do not talk about Iran today the way they did a year ago.
 But is the change great enough to overcome Russia's historic resistance to sanctions, and to jeopardize its commercial relations with Iran? ''Put me down as skeptical,'' says the neoconservative writerRobert Kagan. He agrees that Mr. Obama's persistent diplomacy has increased the likelihood of tough action but observes that engagement itself cannot change basic calculations of national interest. ''The Russians know the Iranians are trying to build a nuclear weapon, and they don't care,'' Mr. Kagan says.
 The question of sanctions figures in two distinct campaigns of engagement -- toward Iran, and toward Russia. The first has arguably succeeded by failing; the second appears to have actually succeeded. Russia, it's true, is scarcely an adversary like Iran or North Korea, and it's not fair to say that President Bush refused to engage with it. Nevertheless, the change in tone of Russian-American relations has made possible achievements like the relatively noncontentious talks over nuclear arms reduction that now seem close to conclusion.
 Russia/Iran belongs at the top of the engagement scorecard. So, too, do American relations with the United Nations Security Council.Susan E. Rice, the ambassador to the United Nations, says the engagement policy ''has created a complete sea change in terms of countries' willingness and openness to cooperate with us.'' She cites tough sanctions imposed on North Korea, the nonproliferation resolution adopted at the Security Council session chaired by Mr. Obama in September, and a fine-tuning last week of measures against Al Qaeda and the Taliban.
 Perhaps Sudan belongs near the bottom. Patient diplomacy rarely works with states that ignore international opinion, and virtually nothing has come of six months of conciliatory diplomacy toward the murderous regime of PresidentOmar al-Bashir of Sudan. Human rights advocates say the administration has been too willing to make concessions and offer dialogue, with little in return.
 Still, even staunch advocates say outside actors have no choice but to seek a political solution that the regime can live with, rather than content themselves with what Mr. Obama dismissed in his Nobel Prize speech as ''the satisfying purity of indignation.''
 Engagement, then, has two faces: It seeks to offer even the most ruthless regime ''the choice of an open door,'' as the president put it in Oslo. It also furnishes a kind of diplomatic currency. At the time of the YouTube debate, one of Mr. Obama's chief foreign policy advisers told me that ''the cost-benefit analysis'' of engagement had as much to do with changing America's global image as with changing the behavior of the state in question. If the United States changes its language and diplomacy, ''then you're a different America'' -- one in a far better position to marshal world opinion in order to advance its goals.
 Perhaps, then, the ultimate measure of the success of the engagement policy will be the extent to which the good will President Obama has generated will tip the balance in the hard bargaining before his administration -- over assistance from allies in Afghanistan, over new approaches to the Middle East and the international economic structure, and, most immediately, in the struggle to reach a meaningful agreement on how to slow global warming -- an issue where the global good collides with the most basic questions of national interest. The credit Mr. Obama has earned will have to stretch a very long way. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STATESMAN: President Obama brokered a climate agreement in Copenhagen on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); FOUNDATIONS (63%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2010



605 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: Long Shadows Of an Economy And a War

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
IS it coincidence that ''Up in the Air'' and ''The Messenger'' -- the two films that best captured a sense of what it was really like to live in the United States the year the bottom almost fell out -- focus on men whose job it is to deliver very bad news to strangers? 
 With its wisecracks and tart screwball banter between Ryan Bingham (George Clooney), a termination facilitator hired by companies to do their downsizing dirty work, and his fellow frequent flier and sometime lover Alex Goran (Vera Farmiga), ''Up in the Air'' has the trappings of a romantic comedy. But as Bingham dispassionately fires longtime employees played by actual victims of downsizing, what emerges is an indelible collective portrait of the chilly impersonality of American corporate life in the 21st century. In a shark-infested sink-or-swim culture where profits and stock price are everything, the bottom line trumps human values. 
 In ''The Messenger'' Ben Foster plays a soldier whose job it is to ring doorbells and break the news to families that a relative has died in combat. As you watch Mr. Foster's character, who's accompanied by a hot-headed fellow officer (Woody Harrelson), repeat a carefully scripted ritual whose strict rules bar physical contact with the bereaved, you are confronted with explosive anguish as the devastating news is absorbed. The harrowing scenes of people crumpling are only slightly softened by a sense of relief that the human cost of our overseas adventures is finally being acknowledged in movies without a veneer of sentimentality and flag waving. 
 These two films suggest that when times get really hard, reality will eventually leak through the cracks in our official culture of denial. Until forced to do otherwise, we would rather pruriently rubber-neck Tiger Woods's misadventures than to confront real human tragedy. To this critic, truthfulness in films, no matter how painful, is preferable to sugar-coated reality paraded as art. 
 Below, my personal Top 10 films of the year. 
 1. UP IN THE AIR The 32-year-old director Jason Reitman, who with Sheldon Turner adapted Walter Kirn's novel for the screen, has established himself as a master of a quick-witted, semi-screwball style that recalls the glory days of Preston Sturges. The movie, his third success after ''Thank You for Smoking'' and ''Juno,'' has its finger on the panicky pulse of American life like no other recent film. In their uncommitted romance, Mr. Clooney and Ms. Farmiga play games of emotional roughhouse in which Mr. Clooney's cynical loner ultimately reveals his vulnerable side. The film recognizes the emerging new rules of engagement in the age of the hook-up, in which women can be as coolly detached as men. Playing a hotshot executive fresh out of Cornell who streamlines the firing process, Anna Kendrick is a frightening epitome of a new female type, an ambitious, robotically chirpy, poker-faced climber, until the moment her composure crumbles. 
 2. THE WHITE RIBBON This magnificently photographed black-and white film by Michael Haneke, the Austrian auteur of relentless misanthropy, is a microscopically detailed examination of the rotten soul of a north German agricultural village just before World War I. In a situation that another filmmaker might have treated as a conventional horror movie, a series of unsolved crimes and acts of viciousness exacerbate the village's already festering climate of suspicion and resentment. Within this rigidly patriarchal society, savage corporal punishment is meted out to children for minor infractions. The culture of cruelty and rage warps the psyches of the young, who respond with malicious subversion. It was this ethos, the movie implies, that seeded the horrors of Nazism and the Holocaust. 
 3. STILL WALKING The middle-class Yokohama clan under intimate scrutiny in the Japanese director Hirokazu Kore-eda's calmly observant eye is really Every Family, with its secrets, disappointments, and unhealed wounds. Here a young art restorer (Hiroshi Abe), his new wife and stepson visit his elderly parents to commemorate his older brother's death 15 earlier as he was saving a drowning child. That rescued child, now grown, is an overweight, directionless man who pays the family a courtesy call in which they delight in his discomfort. Also showing up are the older couple's daughter, her husband and two rowdy children. In a movie almost as great as its most obvious inspiration, Yasujiro Ozu's classic ''Tokyo Story,'' every nuance of emotional subtext from accumulated family history registers. 
 4. THE MESSENGER Mr. Foster (unrecognizable from the wimpy art student he played on ''Six Feet Under'') gives an award-worthy portrayal of Staff Sgt. Will Montgomery, an Army officer wounded in Iraq who is serving the last three months of his tour in an assignment as excruciating in its way as combat. Mr. Foster's performance is extraordinarily restrained, as his character struggles to maintain his reserve in the face of volcanic emotions hurled him by family members of the casualties of war. Against his will he develops an attachment to a new widow (Samantha Morton) that the movie wisely refrains from turning into an instant happy ending. Beautifully written and acted, ''The Messenger,'' the first feature directed by Oren Moverman, from his and Alessandro Camon's screenplay, never stoops to tearjerking manipulation. 
 5. 35 SHOTS OF RUM Though there is no real story in Claire Denis's profoundly tender celebration of the bond between a taciturn, widowed train driver (Alex Descas) and his daughter (Mati Diop), a university student, who share a Parisian apartment, the movie's images and music evoke the deep, complicated relationships within their extended multicultural family. The cinematography of Ms. Denis's longtime collaborator Agnes Godard lends the characters a substance and depth that transcends dialogue. The shots of trains and train tracks have the emotional resonance of Edward Hopper paintings. A magical scene set in a cafe where the characters dance to the Commodores' ''Nightshift'' helps the film cohere as a work of cinematic poetry. 
 6. THE HURT LOCKER One of the most visceral war films ever made, Kathryn Bigelow's film studies of a group of elite soldiers whose job it is to detect and defuse improvised explosive devices in and around Baghdad. (The movie is set in 2004.) Its close-up perspective, in which there is no time for reflection, leaves the politics by the wayside. The wild card among the three soldiers who are the focus of the story is Staff Sgt. William James (grippingly portrayed by Jeremy Renner), a profane, reckless soldier who gets high on the danger involved in his work. The movie is a pungent exploration of pressurized machismo in which demonic and heroic impulses fuse. 
 7. THE HEADLESS WOMAN Every frame of this elegant rain-soaked puzzle of a film by the Argentine director Lucrecia Martel requires the keen analysis of a police detective. The story revolves around the brief meltdown of a middle-class woman following a hit-and-run accident and the ensuing cover-up. The movie subtly compares her silent disavowal of responsibility for any crime she might have committed, to Argentina's guilty historical memory of its military dictatorship, when suspected dissidents disappeared. It may also be a meditation on Argentina's refusal to acknowledge a widening economic disparity between the classes.
 8. AN EDUCATIONCarey Mulligan's luminous portrayal of a smart, pretty Oxford-aspiring English teenager in the early 1960s who is seduced by a duplicitous 35-year-old sophisticate (Peter Sarsgaard) infuses this near-perfect entertainment with a glow of life. The film, directed by Lone Scherfig from Nick Hornby's adaptation of Lynn Barber's memoir, is a perfectly observed period set the outskirts of London just before Beatlemania and the dawn of swinging England. Ms. Mulligan's character, Jenny, balances two concepts -- education as sex and travel, and education as academic achievement -- that prove incompatible when pursued simultaneously. 
 9. SUMMER HOURS In the French director Olivier Assayas's formally elegant film, the death of a matriarch with a valuable art collection brings home her three children, two of whom live outside of France, to discuss the disposition of her property. Should the woman's country house be sold and its artworks donated to the Musee d'Orsay? Or should it be kept as it is and be used as a family gathering place for the next generation? Although different agendas clash, this Chekhovian movie, which stars the great French actors Juliette Binoche and Charles Berling, is not a melodrama in which siblings plot and scheme. It is a calm reflection on the changing value of things over time. 
 10. DISGRACE In the Australian filmmaker Steve Jacobs's faithful screen adaptation of J. M. Coetzee's Booker Prize-winning 1999 novel, John Malkovich plays its protagonist, David Lurie, an arrogant South African professor of romantic poetry who is fired from his job at a Cape Town university after sleeping with an attractive mixed-race student. In the story, set in post-apartheid South Africa, the unrepentant professor visits his daughter on the East Cape, where she is victim of a hideous atrocity. The film is a hard-headed allegory on the brute side of human nature within a social climate where past evil contaminates the present. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Haneke's ''White Ribbon'' scrutinized abuses in a German village before World War I. Other 2009 movies examined unemployment and the war in Iraq. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONY PICTURES CLASSICS) (AR11)
Bearers of bad news: from top, Woody Harrelson, left, and Ben Foster in ''The Messenger''
George Clooney in ''Up in the Air.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OSCILLOSCOPE LABORATORIES
 DALE ROBINETTE/PARAMOUNT PICTURES) (AR14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); COMEDY FILMS (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); WORLD WAR I (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (89%); TIGER WOODS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2009



606 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 527 words

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 In Cycling Boom,
 A Shop Struggles
 Even in the city's current cycling boom, with streets striped with fresh lanes and filled with expensive new bicycles, Damian Loverro has struggled to keep his new bike store afloat.
 He and two partners, Angel Albertorio and Dmitrius Halis, opened the Lit Fuse Cyclery in March on a shoestring budget in an old Bedford-Stuyvesant feather-processing factory. 
 The 2,200-square-foot loft was a fixer-upper, but with help from friends, they bolstered sagging floors, scraped inches of blackened dander off the ceiling and cleared a forest of dead pipes and giant cobwebs.
 Mr. Loverro had a great deal of experience in the cycling world: a former pedicab driver and bike messenger, he ran bicycle stores on the West Coast and in downtown Manhattan. Mr. Albertorio, a former car mechanic, heads the bicycle repair operation.
 But since they opened, the recession, along with the normal headaches that come with owning a small business, has made their venture precarious. Mr. Loverro said he had tried to attract investors to help him build up his inventory of new bicycles, but has found them typically skittish.
 He also needs money for a marketing campaign. Lit Fuse is in a desolate, industrial corner of their neighborhood, near a Home Depot. Customers cycle by it, or find it through word of mouth.
 Now, in the beginning of the slow winter biking season, Mr. Loverro has already laid off two mechanics and faces eviction, having fallen months behind on the rent. He said he hoped to resolve things with his landlord.
 ''I have all the pieces in place,'' he said. ''I just need the personnel and the stock.''
 Repairs brought in money for a time, but customers these days -- many of them students, or just cyclists pinching pennies in the recession -- are hard-pressed to keep their bikes fit. On a recent afternoon, David Kirshoff, 21, brought in a bicycle he bought on Craigslist. He expected to pay $100 for repairs, but Mr. Loverro gave him an estimate of more than $200. 
 ''I had to decide what's essential, and where I can skimp,'' he said, choosing not to get more expensive, puncture-proof tires, for example.
 The new bicycles fly out the door, Mr. Loverro said. But he seems wary of diving into the lucrative market for fixed-gear bicycles, the two-wheeled chariots with no brakes that sell for thousands of dollars. Though he said he found the bikes ''beautiful'' -- and used to ride one -- he has safety concerns. ''Personally, for me, It's daredevil-ism,'' he said.
 The partners have big plans for the place, including hiring a frame builder, to make bicycles from scratch. They are also developing a hybrid gas-electric bicycle.
 For now, his wife's job pays the rent at home, and every dollar he makes at the bike store goes back into the business, which Mr. Loverro regards as a vocation. 
 ''I like the craftsmanship of a machine that you can ride and maintain for your whole life,'' he said. ''It's better for your soul. It's better for your heart.'' KAREEM FAHIM 
 NEW YORK
 DAYBOOK
 Parking Rules
 Because of Christmas, alternate-side and parking meter rules are suspended on Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS, RAYMOND MCCREA JONES THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); CYCLING (90%); MISC HOUSEHOLD GOODS REPAIR (77%); BUDGETS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); EVICTION (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



607 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Finances Push Beverly Hills Schools to Rescind Welcome to Neighbors

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. 

 BODY:
Daniel Kahn has never lived in this city, but he has attended its legendary public schools since the fourth grade. Now in eighth grade, he is vice president of the student council, plays in two school bands and is an A student who has been preparing to tread in his sister's footsteps at Beverly Hills High School.
 But Daniel will almost certainly be looking for a new place to hang his backpack next fall. The school board here intends to do away with hundreds of slots reserved for nonresident children, most of whom live in nearby neighborhoods of Los Angeles where the homes are nice but the city's public school system is deeply distressed.
 The students used to be a financial boon for Beverly Hills, bringing millions of dollars in state aid with them. But California's budget crisis is changing the way schools are financed in many wealthy cities, suddenly turning the out-of-towners into money losers. 
 The result has been raucous school board sessions, Facebook pages devoted to each side of the debate, severed friendships and an unflattering snapshot of the social dynamic between Beverly Hills -- an incorporated city of ''much-haves'' that needs no introduction -- and the often faceless Los Angeles neighborhoods of simply ''haves'' that surround it.
 ''Membership has its privileges,'' said Lisa Korbatov, vice president of the Beverly Hills school board. ''But anyone can be a member. I made a choice to spend more to live in a home here when I could have spent less on a bigger home in another area. But I made a choice and sacrificed.''
 Children like Daniel and his parents say the board's impending decision -- which has so riled the community that the police will be called to watch over next month's board meeting when a formal vote will be taken -- is callous toward the many children who have spent years in Beverly Hills schools.
 ''We happen to live in L.A.'' said Michelle Menna, whose 13-year-old daughter Liat will most likely not be allowed to go to Beverly Hills High next year because of the new policy. ''But her life and her after-school life since she moved here is with the children of Beverly Hills. It's like they are breaking up her family.''
 Ms. Menna, like several other parents interviewed, said she resented the fact that the Beverly Hills schools were happy to have her children when they brought the district money, but now find them expendable.
 ''Our kids brought them the money to put programs together that they did not have before,'' she said.
 Beverly Hills has long enjoyed a reputation for schools that mirror the city. But with declining enrollment in past years, the school district opened its doors to outsiders; currently about one in seven of its roughly 4,800 students -- or 775 -- attend with out-of-district permits. 
 The district, like most across the state, had historically been financed by the state based on a formula that pays for each student. The out-of-district students helped fill the classrooms and allow the district to reap extra money ($6,239 per child this year).
 But the higher-than-average property taxes here, combined with deep slashes to the state's education budget because of the recession -- about 18 percent this year alone -- have combined to change the formula. Essentially, because the city is collecting more in property taxes designated for education than it would receive from the state for its schools, the city is required to use its tax dollars directly to finance its schools. 
 Suddenly, with no state financing in the mix, there is no incentive to fill empty classrooms with children from other cities. From the point of view of most of the five school board members, the out-of-town students would essentially be on scholarship, and draining money -- roughly $2 million a year, according to the superintendent for the district -- that could go to other programs. The district's annual budget is about $62.5 million.
 ''I am incredibly compassionate and sympathetic for what is going on here,'' said Jake Manaster, a board member. But, he added, ''It was very generous of Beverly Hills to take 20 percent of students from the outside.'' 
 Looked at another way, Ms. Korbatov said, a person mugged in another city would not expect Beverly Hills police officers to respond. ''City services,'' she said, ''be they fire, police, schools, are reserved for residents and their children.''
 But one long-serving board member, Myra Lurie, opposes the plan. ''I am seething mad,'' Ms. Lurie said. ''We invited these kids in, and they have been part of the family and the fabric of our district. People are not well served in my community by looking mean-spirited or elitist.''
 Some of the so-called permit students would not be affected by the proposed changes. About 110 of them are children of people who work for the district or the municipal government, an arrangement the school board says benefits both those families and the city's ability to attract a strong work force. Roughly 50 have been granted special permission for a variety of reasons, and roughly 65 are on ''diversity'' permits, which are issued to some families who apply from poor neighborhoods. In addition, 45 have so-called legacy permits -- their parents attended Beverly Hills schools and their grandparents still live here. 
 That leaves close to 500 nonresident children on ''opportunity permits.'' At a meeting last Friday, board members outlined a plan that would do away with those permits, while allowing some students to stay on a little longer. Under the proposal, seventh graders could apply to attend eighth grade to finish middle school before finding a new district for high school, and 10th and 11th graders would be able to stay through graduation. Families could appeal to the Los Angeles County Office of Education, which has ultimate authority on transfer matters throughout the county. 
 The contentious battle here is playing out elsewhere in California, where budget cuts have increased class sizes, reduced teacher rolls and, in a quirk of fate for those districts with high tax assessments, caused districts to forgo direct state financing and rely on ''basic aid,'' as the self-financing route is known.
 In Irvine, an upscale city in Orange County, the district moved last spring to basic aid, and stopped its practice of taking children from neighboring cities like Santa Ana.
 ''It is going to crop up more and more,'' said Peter Foggiato, a fiscal services administrator for the state's Department of Education, ''because of the increase in the deficit.'' In 2007, of the state's 975 districts, 90 used the basic aid formula; the state now has 969 districts, and 109 use basic aid.
 The meeting in Beverly Hills next month is expected to be fraught. 
 ''I've been called Hitler,'' said Brian Goldberg, a board member. ''I just want the noise to lessen.''
 Liat Menna said she would attend the meeting.
 ''To know they don't want me,'' she said, ''it hurts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel Kahn, top left, an eighth grader who had hoped to attend Beverly Hills High School, is one of many nonresidents who may be forced out of the district next fall. Parents, top right, have gathered to fight the plan, which has been contentious. ''I've been called Hitler,'' said Brian Goldberg, bottom left, a board member. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUDGETS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



608 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: Eminent Domain

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Eminent Domain in New York'' (editorial, Dec. 14): New York's eminent domain laws are in need of reform. The Empire State Development Corporation's attempted taking of private property on behalf of Columbia University illustrates how the current process lacks accountability, transparency or meaningful public participation. 
 The corporation cited ''blight'' to justify property condemnation. But the current definition of ''blight'' is vague. Absurd criteria, like the cracked sidewalks and loose awnings cited in Columbia's decision, could be used to identify any neighborhood as blighted. 
 Furthermore, weak disclosure laws allowed Columbia to ignore Freedom of Information Law requests from property owners. 
 The appellate court wrote that ''many commentators have noted that 'few policies have done more to destroy community and opportunity for minorities than eminent domain.' '' Current laws are a holdover from the so-called urban renewal schemes that decimated low-income and minority neighborhoods. 
 I am preparing legislation to address the flaws in existing law, and have requested Gov. David A. Paterson to impose a statewide moratorium on condemnation actions. 
 Since 2005, 43 states have changed their eminent domain laws to better protect home and business owners. It is now time for New York to do the same. 
 (Senator) Bill Perkins 
 Albany, Dec. 14, 2009
 The writer is chairman of the New York State Senate Corporations, Authorities and Commissions Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (93%); PROPERTY LAW (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); WRITERS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); APPEALS COURTS (54%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



609 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Back in the Driver's Seat, With a Small Boost

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
Sometimes all it takes is a little help if it is the right kind of help.
 With two grown children and a baby granddaughter depending on her, Martha Hernandez was struggling to provide for her family in a New York City Housing Authority project on the Lower East Side.
 Ms. Hernandez, 47, a former special education teacher with a winning smile, could have been eligible for up to 60 months of federal cash assistance under the Temporary Aid to Needy Families program. 
 ''I was offered that, but I refused,'' she said. ''I didn't want to maybe overuse the system. That's the way I am.'' 
 Her account was confirmed by Amanda Frick, coordinator of the Single Stop program at Brooklyn Workforce Innovations, a career service agency that aided Ms. Hernandez through a $15,000 partnership grant from the Community Service Society of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 Ms. Hernandez's request was more modest: Could someone help her get a commercial driver's license so she could become an intercity bus driver?
 ''I learned to drive at 16 and had my first car at 17 -- a used 1974 Chevy Caprice, green, with a stick shift, that I bought for $200,'' Ms. Hernandez recalled. 
 She drove daily from Pike Street on the Lower East Side, where she lived with her divorced mother, to City College in Harlem, where she never quite graduated but won M.V.P. honors in softball and basketball. And after 1982, when she married a former grade-school sweetheart, then a Marine reservist, they drove to his base in San Diego, to a new home in Seattle and on visits back to New York. 
 ''We used to drive cross-country, right, guys? Remember that?'' she asked her son Hector, 26, who is disabled, and her daughter, Jessica, 19, as Jessica's 2-year-old daughter, Emma Velez, played in the project's concrete plaza. Ms. Hernandez laughed, recalling the time Hector snatched her driver's license from the sun visor and tossed it to his baby sister, Jessica, who threw it out of the window. 
 In San Diego, Ms. Hernandez worked on the military base in a gas station. ''Again, believe it or not, it had to do with cars,'' she said, as if struck for the first time at the pattern. 
 After moving to Seattle in 1990 and getting an associate's degree in transportation, she took a job moving containers for Federal Express and worked her way up to truck driver. Two years later, she and her husband divorced. 
 When she came back to New York in 1997 with Jessica and Hector and another son, Mark, to live with her mother, she rejoined FedEx, delivering packages. She obtained certification as a special ed teacher, and in 2000 took a second job at her former grade school, Junior High School 56 on Henry Street. 
 Then her life started to unravel. In 2006 her diabetic mother succumbed to a heart attack at 66. In short order, her grandmother and an uncle also died. She had quit FedEx in 2001, and in June 2008, overwhelmed by family demands, she left her teaching job.
 Denied unemployment insurance, she struggled to pay for food and rent. Jessica helped out with a job at the B & H electronics store and won an AmeriCorps scholarship in exchange for work at the Grand Street Settlement. She is now attending the Sanford-Brown Institute in Manhattan to become a medical assistant.
 That is when Ms. Hernandez sought help at the Henry Street Settlement, where she spent two weeks in April polishing her resume and her interviewing skills. She was referred to Brooklyn Workforce Innovations, where one of the four job training programs is Red Hook on the Road, helping job seekers gain a commercial driver's license. 
 She encountered skepticism. ''I was told that couldn't happen; I was a woman,'' she said. ''But I didn't take no for an answer.''
 In fact, Ms. Hernandez was so confident she would land a good job behind the wheel that she turned down the cash assistance program, while signing up for food stamps. 
 Single Stop provided her other aid out of the Community Service Society grant: $338 to meet part of a month's back rent of $649; $145.50 in MetroCards to get to her appointments; and $20 for the driver's license upgrade fee.
 It was a hard three-week course. ''We used to drive all over Brooklyn in a white school bus,'' Ms. Hernandez recalled. The final road test was hard, too. ''We had to parallel park, go in reverse, and make sure we don't hit anything,'' she said. 
 She passed on the first try. A month later she landed a $32,000-a-year job with Peter Pan Bus Lines and started its eight-week training program on routes to Boston, Philadelphia and Washington. The first thing she learned, she said, was what to call her vehicle. ''It's not a bus,'' she said. ''They want you to say 'motor coach.' '' 
 She had to interrupt her driving when, once again, family issues required her presence at home. But she said she expected to resume working shortly. 
 Her goal is ''to give back,'' she said. ''I'm so grateful to those people, I can't really wait until I get back on my feet so I can send them some money.'' 
 HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martha Hernandez passed the road test for a commercial driver's license on the first try.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded: $3,011,240 Recorded Thursday: 68,635 Total: $$3,079,875 Last year to date: $$3,435,468 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMILY (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (71%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%); MILITARY BASES (63%); BASKETBALL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



610 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Snow and a Shortage of 3-D Screens Keep Numbers Down for 'Avatar'

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
As it turns out, the blue-skinned Na'vi warriors of ''Avatar'' are easier to thwart than anyone thought. All it takes is some snow.
 ''Avatar,'' the colossal space adventure from James Cameron and 20th Century Fox that has been billed as a cinematic game-changer, opened No. 1 in North American theaters with about $73 million in tickets but fell short of industry expectations. The reason may have been an enormous winter storm that pummeled the East Coast on Saturday.
 With local television stations warning people to stay indoors, ''Avatar'' grosses in major population centers plummeted on Saturday compared to Friday; typically Saturday sales mark the high point of the weekend. 
 Philadelphia sales fell 57 percent on Saturday, Washington's fell 75 percent and New York's drooped 18 percent, said Chris Aronson, Fox's senior vice president of domestic distribution. Ticket sales were also sharply off on Saturday in two other important markets, Dallas and New Orleans, with Fox blaming the Cowboys-Saints football game.
 Overseas ''Avatar'' opened in 106 countries, selling an additional $159.2 million in tickets for a worldwide gross of $232.2 million, Mr. Aronson said. 
 Tom Rothman, co-chairman of Fox Filmed Entertainment, said in an interview, ''We believe, especially given that women worldwide responded so strongly, that this is just the start.''
 The movie will need to demonstrate supernatural hold on audiences in the coming weeks to avoid becoming a financial calamity for Fox and its financing partners, Dune Entertainment and Ingenious Film Partners. ''Avatar'' ended up costing around $310 million to produce (although tax credits will shave about $30 million off that bill) and an estimated $150 million to market.
 Given the cost, glowing critical reviews and Mr. Cameron's ''Titanic'' resume -- not to mention that the 60 percent of the theaters playing the film were charging an additional $3 to $5 for 3-D presentation -- analysts expected ''Avatar'' to sail past previous December behemoths.
 Instead it placed behind pictures like ''I Am Legend,'' which opened to $77.2 million in 2007, and ''The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King,'' which in 2002 opened to $86.5 million after adjusting for inflation.
 Fox predicted going into the weekend that ''Avatar'' would sell $50 million to $60 million in tickets, an estimate that struck many box office analysts as impossibly low. Fox was not expecting a storm to dent attendance at big-city theaters at that time, but rather was cautious about a story that was not presold.
 Most big-budget films are built around existing franchises or brands (''G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra''). ''I Am Legend'' was a risky premise -- a post-apocalyptic world, just in time for Christmas -- but had Will Smith as an insurance policy; ''The Return of the King'' was the culmination of a blockbuster trilogy.
 Although ''Avatar'' made its debut in 3,452 theaters in North America, movies of similar scope have historically opened in even more theaters, and that smaller number may have held back ticket sales. There is also evidence that a shortage of 3-D theaters depressed opening results. Fox had hoped to have hundreds of additional 3-D locations available, but the credit crunch and industry squabbling has delayed technology upgrades.
 Audiences seem to have swallowed Fox's message that this is a film that should be seen in 3-D. Imax theaters -- 179 in North America and 58 overseas -- broke sales records, with every theater selling out. One signal of how ''Avatar'' could perform going forward: One Imax theater in London has already sold $1 million worth of tickets, $800,000 of which is for the weeks ahead.
 Greg Foster, the chairman and president of Imax Filmed Entertainment, said the chain was adding 3 a.m. and 6 a.m. screenings across the country to try to meet demand.
 ''Avatar,'' a story of love and war set on a distant moon, has been cheered by critics for the way it uses 3-D technology to immerse viewers in a new world. Industry veterans have left screenings comparing the film to ''Star Wars'' or ''Jurassic Park,'' pictures that instilled audiences with ''How did they do that?'' awe.
 The animated musical ''The Princess and the Frog'' (Walt Disney) was second at the weekend box office with about $12.2 million in ticket sales for a new total of $44.8 million, according to multiplex analysts at Hollywood.com. The runaway hit ''The Blind Side'' (Alcon Entertainment) was third with about $10 million for a new total of $164.7 million.
 The savagely reviewed romantic comedy ''Did You Hear About the Morgans?'' (Sony) limped out of the gate with about $7 million.
 ''The Twilight Saga: New Moon'' (Summit Entertainment) was fifth with about $4.4 million for a new total of $274.6 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sam Worthington in James Cameron's ''Avatar.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY WETA/20TH CENTURY FOX) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); FILM (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SALES FIGURES (71%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (55%); DALLAS COWBOYS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: JAMES CAMERON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



611 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; THE DECADE IN SPORTS AUTO RACING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Since Losing Its Intimidator, Nascar Has Strayed From Its Roots

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

 BODY:
Dale Earnhardt would be 58 now and would probably not find much to like about stock-car racing. His death on Feb. 18, 2001, in a last-lap accident at the Daytona 500, led Nascar, and motorsports to a larger degree, into developments Earnhardt might have bristled at.
 His death on that warm, sunny afternoon in Florida stunned Nascar's legion of loyal fans because Earnhardt, the seven-time Cup series champion known as the Intimidator, was regarded as invincible. But it also propelled the sport into American pop culture virtually overnight. 
 The popularity of the sport was expanding already, landing fat contracts with Fox and NBC and about to enter new markets in Chicago and Kansas. Earnhardt's death led more fans to Nascar, but it also led the circuit to focus harder on safety. Head-and-neck-restraints, so-called ''soft walls,'' and roof hatches became a part of stock-car racing and motorsports in general. So did something called the Car of Tomorrow, a boxier but safer stock car.
 But Earnhardt was an old-timer, not reluctant to knock a competitor out of his way -- a character who had made the sport fun. Two days before he died, he sat on a golf cart outside his mobile home and grumbled that Nascar was slowing the cars down to ensure closer racing.
 ''I want to be driving racecars to race them,'' he said.
 In the years after Earnhardt's death, races were close, and television ratings and attendance grew. Nascar became a destination, overwhelming the popularity of IndyCar racing and luring open-wheel drivers like Juan Pablo Montoya and Sam Hornish.
 Young drivers, including Dale Earnhardt Jr., emerged to sell the sport, as well as blue jeans and energy drinks. In 2005, a 22-year-old rookie, Danica Patrick, became the first woman to lead the Indianapolis 500. Last year she was the first woman to win an IndyCar race. And she became a pretty good corporate spokeswoman, too.
 Motorsports, in general, have turned more into another product to sell, with the racers losing, or not showing, their home-spun color. It is somehow fitting that Jimmie Johnson has become the dominant driver in stock-car racing.
 Johnson won an unprecedented fourth consecutive Cup championship this year, and he is sociable and pleasant. But he drives for Hendrick Motorsports, the stock-car monolith, and he is careful not to say anything that would upset Nascar, or, for that matter, his sponsors.
 Nascar has eclipsed other forms of motorsports in this country, including IndyCar and drag racing, and it has become ubiquitous, forcing many local-yokel racetracks with Saturday night cards out of business.
 Nearly nine years after Earnhardt's death, Nascar has barreled into a challenge. With fans and sponsorship dollars disappearing because of the recession, the organization is aiming to reconnect with its roots -- with the same people who were fans of Earnhardt's before he died. A new decade opens with Patrick charging part-time into stock-car racing -- driving a Chevrolet owned in part by Dale Earnhardt Jr. -- and Earnhardt's father, who always did like making a buck, would have no problem with either Patrick racing or his son hiring her.
 He would not like the boring parades that many stock-car races have become. Racing, to him, was rubbing fenders and driving down on the grass if it meant passing another car. No. 3 decals proliferate on cars in Nascar parking lots, but racecars do less racing these days.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dale Earnhardt, left, was the face of Nascar when he died in 2001. Now, Danica Patrick, center, and the four-time Cup champion Jimmie Johnson get the attention.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM LEFT, TERRY RENNA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JONATHAN FERREY/GETTY IMAGES
 RUSTY JARRETT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (94%); NASCAR RACING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (76%); GOLF (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); SOFT DRINKS (70%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (70%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (62%)

PERSON: DANICA PATRICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



612 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Bag for Obama on Climate Change Deal Amid the Recession

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN 

 BODY:
On any list of tough sales jobs in American politics, tax increases, higher energy prices and foreign aid would rise to the top.
 The worldwide negotiations on curbing climate change involve all three -- while Americans suffer 10 percent unemployment. Yet talks here in Copenhagen drew America's leading Democrats, including President Obama, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, like moths to a flame.
 It provided a fitting coda to Mr. Obama's first year in office. He made policy ambition his hallmark; Congressional Democratic leaders have followed, with historically remarkable early results. But the process has been acrimonious, and all now have sagging poll ratings to prove it. 
 Perhaps most ambitious is the effort to reshape America's economy in the name of averting environmental disaster, and to persuade foreign rivals to work together toward that goal.
 ''This is going to be hard,'' a weary Mr. Obama concluded before leaving Copenhagen. ''It's going to be hard within countries. It's going to be even harder between countries. 
 ''One of the things that I've felt very strongly about during the course of this year,'' he said, ''is that hard stuff requires not paralysis, but it requires going ahead and trying to make the best of the situation that you're in.''
 The chaotic, contentious situation here yielded less than Mr. Obama and his allies had hoped. But Copenhagen treated Mr. Obama more kindly than it did earlier this year in his failed attempt to win the 2016 Olympics for Chicago. His energy and climate change policy goals, at minimum, survived.
 When voters assess Mr. Obama's overall agenda in the 2010 midterm elections, survival is an outcome Congressional Democrats would gladly accept.
 Disappointment
 Thousands of environmental policy makers and advocates left Copenhagen with ample grounds for disappointment. The agreement the United States reached with Brazil, China, India and South Africa lacked commitments to achieve its stated goals, was nonbinding and was not formally affirmed by participants, in any case.
 Yet the result fares better when, as in Olympic gymnastics, its scores are adjusted for degree of difficulty. 
 ''Climate change is the hardest political problem the world has ever had to deal with,'' The Economist recently declared. If global catastrophe is indeed looming, all countries benefit from avoiding it -- but are also powerfully tempted to let others pay for preventing it.
 By questioning dire environmental predictions, Mr. Obama's political adversaries in the United States cast doubt on whether paying for prevention makes sense. That is why the Senate has not followed the House in approving emissions cuts that could raise domestic energy prices, and in sending money overseas to help avert environmental damage.
 Senate advocates of climate-change legislation claimed that the momentum from Copenhagen would help prospects for action next year. But obtaining the 60 votes needed to surmount a filibuster remains an uphill fight.
 ''Do we have the votes today? No,'' Mr. Kerry acknowledged. But Mr. Kerry, the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, insisted that 60 votes remain ''in play.''
 ''The principal naysayers are those who don't believe in the science,'' he said. ''I don't think they have a lot of credibility.''
 Reshaping Economy
 The White House and Congressional Democrats have settled on their climate-change message: strong action can produce energy independence and new economic vitality.
 ''What would I say to my constituents?'' asked Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who is an author of the House-passed bill to reduce carbon emissions. ''The largest tax on the American people is the one that's imposed by the Saudi Arabians and Exxon Mobil. For a very small investment, we can make our own energy here in the United States.''
 Ms. Pelosi, the House speaker, makes the argument for action on climate change even simpler. 
 ''The American people should be pleased with this for four reasons: jobs, jobs, jobs and jobs,'' Ms. Pelosi said during a break from her advocacy in Copenhagen on climate change, the issue she calls her signature one. ''We are about investing in science to create the new technology and have a new green revolution, so that we can create a new economy.''
 It is relatively easy for Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Markey, coastal-state liberals with safe districts, to make those arguments. It is not so easy for vulnerable heartland Democrats who fear that economic disruption for the coal, oil and utility sectors will produce career-threatening political fallout among not-so-liberal voters.
 And energy policy is only the beginning. The $787 billion economic stimulus package, a health care overhaul and new Wall Street regulations -- all major Obama initiatives passed by the House -- also provide fat targets for Republican attacks in next year's campaigns.
 ''We've had a very challenging work year,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ''It's hard to bake the pie and sell the pie at same time. Now we'll sell it.''
 Like everything about Mr. Obama's debut, that will not be easy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama in Copenhagen on Friday. He and Congressional Democrats have seen poll ratings sag. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); OLYMPICS (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); GYMNASTICS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



613 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 726 words

PERSON: Lincoln Gordon 

HEADLINE: Lincoln Gordon Dies at 96; Educator and Ambassador to Brazil

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Lincoln Gordon, a diplomat, educator and political economist who was the American ambassador to Brazil in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations and the president of Johns Hopkins University in the late 1960s, died on Saturday at an assisted-living home near Washington. He was 96. 
 Dr. Gordon died at Collington Episcopal Life Care in Mitchellville, Md., where he had lived for the past two years, his son Robert said. He had been a Washington resident for many years and was still an active associate of the Brookings Institution there. 
 A scholarly, pipe-smoking economist who earned a doctorate at Oxford and was a Harvard professor for many years, Dr. Gordon was posted to Paris and London as an administrator of the Marshall Plan for European recovery after World War II. He served as the United States envoy to Brazil from 1961 to 1966 and was the president of Johns Hopkins from 1967 to 1971.
 He was the author of books on government, the economy, energy and national security, foreign policy in Europe and Latin America, and Brazil's emergence from military dictatorships to partnership with the nations of North and South America. He also wrote many articles on North Atlantic Treaty Organization strategies, the integration of Europe and the Alliance for Progress in Latin America.
 In a career split between academic appointments and government service, Dr. Gordon, a Democrat, taught business and international affairs at Harvard, served on the War Production Board during World War II and was later a consultant to the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission, a White House economics adviser and the assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs. 
 Abraham Lincoln Gordon, who never used his first name, was born on Sept. 10, 1913, in New York to Bernard and Dorothy Lerner Gordon. His father was a lawyer and his mother moderated youth forums broadcast by NBC and for The New York Times on WQXR. He attended Ethical Culture schools, graduated with high honors from Harvard in 1933 and earned his doctorate as a Rhodes scholar in 1936.
 In 1937, he married the former Allison Wright. She died in 1987. Besides his son Robert, of New Haven, he is survived by two daughters, Sally Gordon of Los Angeles and Amy Gordon of Gill, Mass.; another son, Hugh, of Ardmore, Pa.; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
 After the election of President John F. Kennedy in 1960, Dr. Gordon served on a task force that developed the Alliance for Progress, the program that provided aid intended to dissuade Latin America from revolution and socialism. Dr. Gordon took up the ambassadorship in Brazil in 1961 at a time of high inflation and just as a left-wing president, Joao Goulart, took office.
 President Goulart was deposed in a right-wing military coup in 1964. Accusations that Dr. Gordon, his staff and the Central Intelligence Agency had been involved in the coup were repeatedly denied. 
 But in 1976, nearly a decade after stepping down as ambassador, Dr. Gordon acknowledged that the Johnson administration had been prepared to intervene militarily to prevent a leftist takeover of the government. 
 After returning from Brazil in 1967, Dr. Gordon, in addition to his State Department role, coordinated aid to Latin America through the Alliance for Progress. When he stepped down a year later to accept the Johns Hopkins presidency, President Lyndon B. Johnson praised his service as ''a rare combination of experience and scholarship, idealism and practical judgment.''
 Dr. Gordon's four years at Johns Hopkins were dogged by deteriorating finances, faculty complaints over pay and academic priorities, and students rebellious over the ''relevance'' of their educations. He resigned in 1971.
 From 1972 to 1975, Dr. Gordon was a fellow of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars at the Smithsonian Institution. 
 Later in the 1970s, he was associated with Resources for the Future, a research and policy organization in Washington, and since 1984 had been an economist with Brookings, which studies domestic and foreign policy issues. 
 His books include ''A New Deal for Latin America'' (1963), ''Growth Policies and the International Order'' (1979), ''Energy Strategies for Developing Nations'' (1981), ''Eroding Empire: Western Relations with Eastern Europe'' (1987) and ''Brazil's Second Chance'' (2001).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lincoln Gordon (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABIAN BACHRACH, 1970) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); CHILDREN (89%); COUPS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ETHICS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); WRITERS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (57%); SMOKING (55%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); MARSHALL PLAN (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



614 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PRESCRIPTIONS MAKING SENSE OF THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Things That Changed, And Stayed the Same

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The public option had to go. 
 For Senate Democratic leaders struggling to round up 60 votes for their sweeping health care legislation, that was one loud message from centrist holdouts, including Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, who on Friday night gave the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, the handshake of a lifetime in committing his support. 
 Mr. Nelson, below, like Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, had insisted that he could not support the public option -- a government-run health insurance plan that liberals favored as a way to create competition for private insurers. 
 But as the dust, and the snow, settled on Sunday, it was clearer than ever that the fight over the public option was much more about political messaging than it was about health care policy. 
 The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, in its analysis of the final version of Mr. Reid's health care bill, found virtually no difference in the number of people who would gain health insurance coverage with the public option removed from the equation.
 With or without a government-run plan, the budget office said, the number of uninsured Americans would drop by 31 million between 2010 and 2019 as a result of the Senate bill. And the proportion of the nonelderly population that would be insured by 2019, not including illegal immigrants, remained the same: 94 percent. 
 That the coverage numbers did not change in dropping the public plan could help in negotiations between the Senate and the House, which included the public option in the bill it approved last month. Although House liberals were expected to fight to keep a public plan, they might have no choice if they want the bill to become law. 
 Mr. Nelson, explaining his position at a news conference in the Capitol on Saturday, said: ''I believe in the free market system as the foundation of our economy and as the primary focus that should drive our health care system and our debate. That's why I opposed the public option and yet supported the market exchanges.'' 
 But virtually the same number of people will end up buying insurance through the new government-regulated insurance exchanges with or without a government-run plan as one of those offerings, the budget office said. 
 In addition, it found that a substitute proposal, to create at least two new national insurance plans modeled after those offered to federal workers, including members of Congress, would make no difference to the overall effect of the legislation. 
 The new national plans would be overseen by a federal agency, the Office of Personnel Management, which would negotiate prices and benefits packages. That alternate was inserted as a concession to supporters of the public option, but the budget office analysis shows that there would be little difference between those plans and other government-approved insurance plans created under the bill. 
 ''The proposal would call on O.P.M. to contract for two national or multistate health insurance plans -- one of which would have to be nonprofit -- that would be offered through the insurance exchanges,'' the budget office wrote. 
 ''Whether insurers would be interested in offering such plans is unclear, and establishing a nationwide plan comprising only nonprofit insurers might be particularly difficult,'' the analysis continued. ''Even if such plans were arranged, the insurers offering them would probably have participated in the insurance exchanges anyway, so the inclusion of this provision did not have a significant effect on the estimates of federal costs or enrollment in the exchanges.'' 
 Previously, the budget office had estimated that between 3 million and 4 million people would enroll in the public option if it were created, and that premiums for the government-run plan would be somewhat higher than comparable private plans. 
 According to the new analysis, those people would simply end up enrolling in other government-regulated insurance plans. 
 The public option fight had always seemed more about what it could be than what it would be: Supporters hoped that it would lead to a health care system fully run by the government; opponents worried that it would lead to a health care system fully run by the government. In that theoretical fight, Mr. Nelson and other opponents won. 
 But on a more immediate basis, the only significant number that seemed to change as a result of the public option being dropped from the bill was the number of Democratic senators willing to vote yes. It climbed to 60. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); INSURANCE (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); APPROVALS (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (63%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: BEN NELSON (89%); HARRY REID (73%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



615 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Data Shows A Surge in Hiring Of Temp Workers

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The hiring of temporary workers has surged, suggesting that the nation's employers might soon take the next step, bringing on permanent workers, if they can just convince themselves that the upturn in the economy will be sustained. 
 As demand rose after the last two recessions, in the early 1990s and in 2001, employers moved more quickly. They added temps for only two or three months before stepping up the hiring of permanent workers. Now temp hiring has risen for four months, the economy is growing, and still corporate managers have been reluctant to shift to hiring permanent workers, relying instead on temps and other casual labor easily shed if demand slows again. 
 ''When a job comes open now, our members fill it with a temp, or they extend a part-timer's hours, or they bring in a freelancer -- and then they wait to see what will happen next,'' said William J. Dennis Jr., director of research for the National Federation of Independent Business. 
 The rising employment of temp workers is not all bad. However uncertain their status, they do count in government statistics as wage-earning workers, adding to the employment rolls and helping to bring down the monthly job loss to just 11,000 in November. Indeed, the unemployment rate fell in 36 states in November, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported last week, partly because of the growing use of temps.
 The bureau, which issues the monthly employment reports, does not distinguish between permanent and casual employment, with one exception: it has a special category for temp workers, the men and women supplied by Manpower, Kelly Services, Adecco and other agencies. 
 Last month 52,000 temps were added, greater than the number of new workers in any other category. Not even health care and government, stalwarts through the long recession, did better. 
 ''Sometimes we're asked by a company to bring back ex-employees as temps,'' said Joanie Ruge, a senior vice president of Adecco. Some are even ex-employees who have been laid off. ''That does happen,'' she said. 
 In the past, temps who do well have often been offered regular employment, with higher pay and benefits. Given the uncertainties about this recovery, companies are not doing that now, and temps, as a result, are less likely to spend as freely as regular employees or to qualify for credit, generating less demand than permanent employment would. 
 Adding to this undertow, corporate America is investing very little in expansion at a moment when current capacity -- the machinery and floor space now available -- is underused. And pressure is rising on the Obama administration and Congress to offset the shortfalls by authorizing more stimulus spending -- enough to bring the national unemployment rate down from the present 10 percent. 
 ''Depression has been forestalled only because major government borrowing and spending is filling the gap,'' Albert M. Wojnilower, a Wall Street economist and consultant at Craig Drill Capital, said in a newsletter last week.
 Caution in hiring is certainly the watchword at Eggrock, which makes prefabricated bathrooms in Littleton, Mass. During the summer, Eggrock received its first new order since the recession began: 462 units for a hospital project in Canada. 
 The order caught the company with only 10 workers on the factory floor, down from 45 early last year. But rather than recall those who had been laid off, Eggrock arranged for 40 temps from Manpower: plumbers, electricians, assemblers and the like.
 ''The biggest factor in prompting us to shift from temps to permanent employees would be a solid order backlog,'' said Phillip Littlefield, a vice president at the company. So far a backlog has not materialized, or even a second order, although there is an ''uptick in interest,'' as Mr. Littlefield put it. ''We are optimistic,'' he said. 
 Halfway across the country, in Burlington, Iowa, the recession bypassed the Winegard Company. That is perhaps because Winegard makes television antennas and satellite receivers, and in hard times people watch more television, said Denise Baker, Winegard's director of human resources. Whatever the case, to keep up with new orders, the company has added 70 workers in the last two years -- all of them temps.
 ''An actual employee with benefits costs more than a temp or a contract worker,'' Ms. Baker said, ''and as long as I can still get highly skilled temps, I'll go that route. It gives me more room to reverse course if the economy weakens again and sales do finally sink.''
 Given the nature of the upturn, that could happen. After 18 months of contraction, the economy expanded from July through September at a 2.8 percent annual rate, and many economists expect the expansion to be even stronger in the fourth quarter, approaching 4 percent. The rebound is robust mainly because of a ''turnaround in inventory policies from breakneck liquidation to slow accumulation,'' Mr. Wojnilower said. 
 If this restocking of shelves and warehouses were to stop or slow next year, a possibility that concerns Mr. Littlefield and Ms. Baker, then the temps, freelancers and contract workers they and many other employers now use would have a harder time moving from casual to regular employment. 
 The temp agencies often promote themselves as employment agencies -- skilled at quickly finding qualified workers whom companies can convert to regular employment after using them initially as temps. 
 That mechanism works well in good times, but not these days, certainly not for Walter Latham of Coram, Long Island, who lost his job 14 months ago as a project manager at the Reserve, a money market fund based in New York. 
 His wife, Marjorie, works for Kelly Services as a temp at a health insurance company's call center, and Mr. Latham, 56, finally joined her two weeks ago after hunting for months for higher-paying, permanent work. The temp assignment pays him less than $25 an hour -- ''a long way down from the $135,000 a year I once made,'' Mr. Latham said.
 The Lathams have gone through the more than $200,000 in savings that he accumulated during 20 years in the financial services industry. The call center assignment ends on March 31, and neither Mr. Latham nor his wife have gotten any hint that the insurance company would convert them to permanent employment with benefits like health insurance, which neither has today. 
 ''My future is Latham Golf,'' he said, describing a Web site that he and some partners started 15 days ago to teach subscribers how to swing golf clubs. Until Latham Golf pays off, if it ever does, Mr. Latham says that he and his wife, who sells jewelry on the side, will continue to work as temps.
 ''I've never seen the job market this horrible,'' he said, ''when you couldn't get a job or even an offer of a job at a decent pay level.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eggrock, a company in Massachusetts that makes prefabricated bathrooms, added 40 temporary workers to meet demand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%)

COMPANY: KELLY SERVICES INC (58%); ADECCO SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

TICKER: KELYB (NASDAQ) (58%); KELYA (NASDAQ) (58%); ADI1 (FRA) (55%); ADEN (SWX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (58%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (58%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



616 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: In a Distressed Year, Hollywood Smiles

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
This was the year that Hollywood hit the jackpot by informing us that Mike Tyson keeps a pet tiger, Spock had a fling with Uhura, Hogwarts School needs a new head, the world will end in 2012, and even George Clooney is up in the air when it comes to women.
 By year's end, it was enough to make Daniel Day-Lewis break into song.
 Hollywood will ride premium-price tickets for 3-D movies, big-budget sequels and -- counterintuitively -- the recession to more than $10 billion in ticket sales by the end of 2009, a near-record that is helping to offset a steep drop in DVD revenue. 
 As of Sunday, North American theaters had already generated about $9.95 billion in ticket sales, with 11 days of 2009 to go, according to Box Office Mojo, which tracks movie sales. 
 Most important, the industry did not reach this level of success through price increases alone. Box Office Mojo said attendance so far this year was about 1.39 billion, already a 3 percent increase over last year, even before counting many holiday blockbuster releases. 
 That is still off about 12 percent from 2002, the attendance peak for the decade, but a far better showing than 2008, when attendance dropped 4.5 percent, according to Box Office Mojo's figures.
 ''It's our job as an industry to make movies that consumers feel are worthy of getting out of the house to see, and this year we achieved that,'' said Robert G. Friedman, a chairman of Summit Entertainment, the studio behind ''The Twilight Saga: New Moon.'' 
 Even so, the film business has more work to do if it truly wants to scale new heights at the box office. Adjusting for inflation, 2002 still holds the contemporary record with just over $11 billion in sales.
 The robust box office is helping the industry cope with the DVD downturn. In the first six months of the year, DVD revenue fell by about $1 billion compared with the previous year, analysts say, as consumers tightened their discretionary spending and as video-on-demand and online viewing became more popular.
 A major problem is that bigger receipts at the box office do not immediately translate to bigger studio profits because of revenue splitting with theaters and other partners.
 Still, the uptick in moviegoing has studios for the first time in years focusing more on delivering must-see films than churning out poorly executed movies and letting DVD sales pick up the slack.
 ''If people come to the movies and leave feeling like they got more than they paid for, the experience was validated for them and they will come back,'' said Tom Rothman, a chairman of Fox Filmed Entertainment.
 So, how did Hollywood deliver such strong results?
 Start with the recession. Historically speaking, the old saw that movies do well in hard times is not precisely true. But the economy certainly played a role this year, analysts say, with the movies offering a relatively affordable escape.
 The downturn also coincided with a batch of movies that did not make people think too hard. Put ''The Hangover'' from Warner Brothers in that category -- the comedy, featuring Mr. Tyson's tiger, came out of nowhere to sell $277.3 million in domestic tickets -- along with inexpensive thrillers like ''Taken,'' from 20th Century Fox.
 Studios relied surprisingly little on men in tights -- ''X-Men Origins: Wolverine'' was the lone superhero picture among the year's top 10 -- but leaned heavily on big-budget sequels and prequels. Seven of the top 10 movies were new franchise installments, including the No. 1 movie of the year, ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen,'' which Paramount Pictures pushed to $402 million in domestic sales.
 Other factors mattered, like a less-cluttered marquee: the number of films released in theaters dropped 14 percent for the year compared with 2008. But by far the biggest contributor was the audience's embrace of 3-D screenings, for which a ticket costs $3 to $5 more than standard.
 Analysts estimate that box office revenue from 3-D has totaled $1.3 billion so far this year -- not counting ''Avatar,'' from James Cameron, which opened on Friday. In 2008, 3-D sales stood at $307 million.
 Expect the business to push the format even harder as a result: there are currently more than 50 films slated for 3-D release in coming years, according to RealD, a provider of 3-D technology for theaters.
 Imax, the large-format movie company, also kicked into overdrive in 2009, helping to push film after film to blockbuster status. There are now 440 Imax theaters open around the world, a 24 percent increase from the fourth quarter of last year, according to Richard L. Gelfond, Imax's chief executive.
 Some studios rode these business currents, and others nearly capsized in them. Leading the Big Six movie factories was Warner Brothers, which dominated with 20 percent market share and $1.9 billion in sales in North America. (Add in overseas figures and the studio raked in $3.7 billion for its biggest unadjusted year ever.)
 Notably, ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince,'' the year's second best-selling movie with $302 million in domestic tickets, overcame a delayed release date and worries that consumers were tiring of the series set at the Hogwarts School for wizards.
 Sony also recorded its best year, selling more than $3.4 billion at the global box office -- an impressive result since the company did not have any films among the year's top 10 in North America. Its formula? A wide range of pictures: the end-of-the-world epic ''2012'' on the big-budget side, ''Paul Blart: Mall Cop'' on the small, ''Julie & Julia'' aimed at older women, ''Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs'' directed toward children.
 ''There are a bunch of different audiences out there if you pay attention to them,'' said Doug Belgrad, president of Columbia Pictures, a unit of Sony. Added Matt Tolmach, who is also president of Columbia, ''People are much more selective. If they don't feel a movie is for them, it's over.''
 Paramount, owned by Viacom, reversed its fortunes with a successful reboot of ''Star Trek,'' in which a young Mr. Spock had an onscreen kiss with Uhura, and the introduction of a possible new franchise with ''G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra.'' Giving the studio a boost was its decision to focus on fewer but more ambitious titles. Paramount will release 14 movies this year, a 36 percent drop from two years ago.
 Fox's year is still undetermined, pending results through the rest of the year for ''Avatar,'' which cost $310 million to produce (before deducting tax credits). 
 Although the studio effectively delivered sequels, including ''Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian,'' Fox made one of its best moves with animation. ''Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs'' delivered $884 million in global ticket sales -- $200 million more than ''Up,'' from the Walt Disney Company. 
 ''Up'' was no slouch, particularly in North America, where it was the year's third-biggest seller with $293 million in domestic sales. But it wasn't enough to counter a disastrous year for Disney's studio, which lost money in two quarters, leading to a management overhaul. 
 Bloated budgets for films like ''G-Force'' and ''Disney's A Christmas Carol,'' along with multiplex wipeouts like ''Confessions of a Shopaholic'' and ''Surrogates,'' were Disney's primary downfall. 
 Independent distributors had a rough year -- though the Weinstein Company hit pay dirt over the summer with ''Inglourious Basterds,'' a 50-50 production with Universal Pictures, and was hoping for a late year rally with Mr. Day-Lewis and a cast of beauties in the musical ''Nine.''
 Outside of ''Basterds,'' Universal Pictures also stumbled. Despite successfully rehabilitating a franchise with ''Fast & Furious,'' the studio suffered flop after flop, including what is widely considered the year's biggest, ''Land of the Lost.'' Its co-chairmen were fired in October.
 The studio is careful to say that 2010 will be a rebuilding year, since all of the movies will be ones that those executives left behind in the pipeline. But there are some potential blockbusters in the batch, including a third installment of the ''Meet the Parents'' series.
 ''That gets us back closer to the things we've done well before,'' said Adam Fogelson, Universal's chairman. ''I'm excited to focus on a new beginning.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''The Hangover'' sold a surprising $277.3 million in tickets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) (B1)
''Up,'' top, was the year's third-biggest seller with $293 million. ''Star Trek,'' above left, successfully helped restart a franchise, and ''2012'' helped Sony record its best year, although none of its offerings were among 2009's top 10 films in North America. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS AND WALT DISNEY PICTURES
INDUSTRIAL LIGHT AND MAGIC/PARAMOUNT PICTURES
 COLUMBIA PICTURES) (B5) CHART: BOX OFFICE TICKETS SOLD (Source: Box Office Mojo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); PETS (73%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



617 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Faster, NASA, Faster

BYLINE: By EDWARD LU. 
Edward Lu, a former astronaut, is the program manager for advanced projects at Google.

DATELINE: Saratoga, Calif. 

 BODY:
 IN Silicon Valley we have a saying: launch early, launch often. It's an acknowledgment that successful, innovative companies are the ones that rapidly try new ideas, see what works, improve their products and repeat. Businesses that launch frequently are also able to take advantage of economies of scale to make launchings faster and easier. In many ways, the key to innovation is speed of execution. 
 NASA, an agency that depends on innovation, could benefit from the same mindset. To meet its new goals for human spaceflight, NASA must be able to be creative and take risks, or else it will be unable to adapt to new technology and changing political realities. Grand plans stretching over decades will become irrelevant and eventually collapse. 
 In the 12 years before I left NASA in 2007, we averaged about four space shuttle launchings per year. We had periods when the rate was even lower: in the late '90s, during the early construction phase of the International Space Station, and in 2003, in the wake of the space shuttle Columbia disaster. I saw firsthand the harm that low launching rates do to innovation. 
 With precious few flights, every available opportunity to test new equipment or run scientific investigations was filled for years into the future, and this discouraged engineers from trying out new ideas. Without actual flight test data on, for example, prototypes for new life-support equipment, management was forced to substitute analysis for real engineering experience. 
 As operations slowed, morale dropped and proficiency in mission control, hardware handling and other operations all declined. The space shuttle is a magnificent machine, but it is so expensive and difficult to maintain that most of NASA's effort was aimed at simply getting things up, so there were few resources left for actually exploring space. Imagine how different it would have been if we had had regular weekly launchings! 
 There is an important distinction to be made between the launching system (the rocket), and the spacecraft and payload (scientific instruments, experiments, people and so on) that it carries. In planning for spaceflight, the goal should be to make the launching system as robust as possible, and then launch rockets frequently so you can experiment and improve on the spacecraft and payloads that carry out missions. 
 I recognize that NASA cannot push a system to launch more frequently than it is capable of, because this could mean overrunning the budget or, worse, cutting corners on safety. Instead, future systems should be designed so that they can be rapidly prepared for launching by small teams. 
 This would not only increase NASA's ability to send up innovative payloads but also make launching systems more reliable. After all, the more a rocket is flown, the better it can be understood and the safer it becomes. Frequent launchings would also reduce costs per flight in the long run. 
 This strategy does have a downside: Given the reality of fixed budgets, a requirement to launch frequently would push designers to create smaller rockets. So any large spacecraft would need to be assembled and fueled in space, rather than on the ground. But if the flight rate is high and the launching system is robust, then such complications could be overcome. If, on the other hand, NASA is able to launch rockets only a few times a year, it will be difficult to maintain the innovation needed to sustain any long-term program. 
 The Russian Soyuz rocket demonstrates the value of frequent launching. Variants of this rocket have flown more than 1,700 times, averaging more than 30 launchings a year. As a result, the Soyuz is among the most reliable of all existing rockets. In fact, I flew into space aboard a Soyuz rocket in 2003 when NASA space shuttles had been grounded after the Columbia disaster. 
 There is no reason American companies could not build a similar, but modernized, medium-sized, economical workhorse of a rocket that is simple enough to sustain frequent launching. If NASA were to promise to buy one such rocket a week, the manufacturers could also profitably sell copies for launching commercial spacecraft and satellites -- at much lower than current prices -- and this would spur the development of space-based industries in fields like telecommunications, earth imaging and even space tourism. 
 To maintain a vibrant, innovative program, NASA needs to step up the rate of rocket launchings. It should set a requirement that any new launching system fly once a week, then put out contracts for private companies to design and build rockets that can operate this frequently. By launching early and launching often, NASA could get back in the business of exploring space.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY DAVID SANDLIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (76%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); SPACE STATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: GEOPHARMA INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



618 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 QAEDA AFFILIATE IN IRAQ SHIFTS TO REMAIN A THREAT
 With its access to financing and fighters dwindling, Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia has shifted its tactics and strategy to conduct less frequent but more catastrophic attacks aimed at destabilizing Iraq before elections early next year. PAGE A6
 COLD STYMIES CHUNNEL RAIL
 The high-speed rail service between Britain and continental Europe was suspended indefinitely after the third day of weather-related disruptions that had left some passengers stranded for hours in the English Channel tunnel. PAGE A6 
 MAOISTS CLASH IN NEPAL 
 Riot police officers wielding batons and firing canisters of tear gas clashed with Maoist sympathizers in Katmandu, Nepal, as the Maoists staged their largest protests since abandoning the government seven months ago. PAGE A11 
 AUSCHWITZ SIGN IS FOUND
 The Polish police said they had found the infamous ''Arbeit Macht Frei'' sign that was stolen from the gate of the former Nazi death camp Auschwitz. The steel sign, whose German words translate to ''work makes you free,'' was found in northern Poland. Five men were taken into custody. PAGE A11 
 IRAN-IRAQ STANDOFF ENDS
 Iraq said Iranian soldiers who had been occupying part of a disputed Iraqi oil field had withdrawn, ending a three-day standoff that had strained relations between the countries. PAGE A14 
 KARZAI DEFENDS CABINET
 President Hamid Karzai, whose cabinet nominations are under scrutiny by both Afghans and Western countries that aid Afghanistan, sought to reassure the world that his proposed ministers are professionals rather than political favorites. PAGE A14 
 National
 HEALTH CARE DEBATE LEADS TO BAD FEELINGS IN SENATE
 In the heart of the holiday season, Senate Republicans and Democrats are at one another's throats as the health care overhaul reaches its final votes. The toxic atmosphere is evident on the Senate floor, on television talk shows and in the hallways of the Capitol. PAGE A22 
 REPEAT OFFENSES IN TEXAS
 Several cases of recidivism have raised questions about the way Texas treats under-age offenders with severe psychiatric issues. PAGE A18 
 Prescriptions A22
 New York
 CHURCHES' FLOCKS GRAPPLE 
 With Divisions Over Abuse
 Thousands of Masses were celebrated this year in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Bridgeport. But two of them, within a few weeks and a few miles of each other in Norwalk, Conn., hinted at the tangled emotions still dividing many Catholics almost eight years after the start of the sex abuse scandal that has dogged the church. PAGE A26
 Business
 HOPING TO LURE YOUNG 
 Into Digital Jobs
 Hybrid careers will increasingly be the new American jobs of the future, labor experts say. But not enough young people are embracing computing, and educators and technologists say two things need to change: the image of computing work, and computer science education in high schools. PAGE B1
 SAAB'S NEW SHOT AT SURVIVAL
 Hopes dimmed Friday when General Motors rejected a plan to sell Saab to Spyker, a tiny Dutch maker of high-end sports cars, and said the brand would be shut down. But new interest surfaced Sunday, including a renewed offer from Spyker. PAGE B1
 FINDING SILVER LINING
 The media landscape came crashing down this year. But with a little bit of pluck, the media industry can work from here. Let's start by counting our blessings in 2009. David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1
 PFIZER BUYS CELL THERAPY
 Pfizer is buying the rights to a somewhat controversial cell therapy from Athersys, a biotechnology company -- a sign of big pharmaceutical companies' growing interest in stem cells. PAGE B2
 HOUSE CALLS OVER THE WEB
 OptumHealth, a division of UnitedHealth Group, the nation's largest health insurer, plans to offer a service that connects patients and doctors using video chat nationwide next year. It is introducing it state by state, starting with Texas, but not without resistance from state medical associations. PAGE B4
 PHONES AS HACKERS' TARGETS
 Mobile phones are becoming ever more like personal computers. That means they are also becoming more vulnerable to traditional computer menaces like hackers and viruses. PAGE B3
 Retailers Hurt by Blizzard B1
 PBS to Be Rated by Nielsen B6
 Arts
 FUDGING THE DETAILS
 On Star-Cross'd Lovers
 The Nature Theater of Oklahoma asked its actors to remember what they could about ''Romeo and Juliet'' off the top of their heads. The new production at the Kitchen in Manhattan is crafted from its actors' tattered recollections, which the creators arranged roughly in ascending order of lunacy. Review by Charles Isherwood. PAGE C1
 NO RECORDS FOR 'AVATAR'
 ''Avatar,'' the colossal space adventure from James Cameron and 20th Century Fox that has been billed as a cinematic game-changer, opened No. 1 in North American theaters with about $73 million in tickets but fell short of industry expectations. The reason may have been the enormous winter storm that pummeled the East Coast. PAGE C1
 SHARING THE SPOTLIGHT
 The pianist Alon Goldstein, the cellist Amit Peled and the clarinetist Alexander Fiterstein all have busy careers as soloists, but they have been touring together lately, including a date as part of the Peoples' Symphony Concerts at Washington Irving High School. Review by Allan Kozinn. PAGE C3
 RECOUNTING A PRISONER'S TALE
 Ken Jarowowski writes that ''A British Subject'' at 59E59 Theaters, based on the real-life tale of the campaign to free a British man accused of murder in Pakistan, covers so much ground in 75 minutes that it sometimes feels like a distillation of a much longer play. PAGE C5
 Sports
 A PLAYER'S DEATH
 Looms Over the Bengals
 The Cincinnati Bengals ostensibly faced off against the San Diego Chargers with the hope of securing a first-round playoff bye. But the death last week of the Bengals receiver Chris Henry will be the subtext under which the rest of their season will be played out. PAGE D7
 CUT FROM THE SAME CLOTH
 Bob Knight and John Calipari are cousins of the N.C.A.A. cloth. So it was odd to hear Knight deride the integrity of college basketball and use Calipari, the coach at Kentucky, as Exhibit A. William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE D4
 ONCE A STRENGTH, NOW A FLAW
 The Giants' defensive linemen have not provided the pass rush the team enjoyed in recent seasons. As the Giants prepared for Monday night's game at Washington, the Giants' defense ranked 22nd in the league in sacks with 26. PAGE D6
 Obituaries
 LINCOLN GORDON, 96
 A diplomat, educator and political economist, he was the American ambassador to Brazil in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations and the president of Johns Hopkins University in the late 1960s. PAGE A29
 DAN O'BANNON, 63
 His screenplays for ''Alien,'' ''Total Recall,'' ''The Return of the Living Dead'' and other films made him a cult hero among science fiction aficionados. PAGE A29
 BRITTANY MURPHY, 32
 A Hollywood actress, she was perhaps best known for her role in the sleeper hit ''Clueless'' and rose to leading roles with ''8 Mile.'' The Los Angeles County's coroner's office said her death appeared to be of natural causes. PAGE A29
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A31
 ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RELIGION (87%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (84%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); HOLOCAUST (75%); RIOTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); WEATHER (71%); SCANDALS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); RECIDIVISM RATES (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (63%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (61%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (55%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); SEX SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (52%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); NEPAL (93%); EUROPE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



619 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Storm on a Shopping Weekend Raises Retailer Worries

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM; William Neuman, Nate Schweber and Sarah Wheaton contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After a year of recession and uncertainty, the last thing retailers needed was a blizzard to hit the weekend before Christmas.
 Snow, sleet and wind on the East Coast gave already tight-fisted consumers another reason to stay away from the mall Saturday and Sunday, normally blockbuster days for retailers catering to last-minute shoppers.
 ''The snowstorm came on the most important shopping day of the season, if not the year, and hit the most important market in the United States,'' said John D. Morris, a retailing analyst at BMO Capital Markets. 
 The storm, which covered some areas in a foot or more of snow, hit a region of the country that accounts for about 25 percent of a typical retailer's national market, he said.
 Store employees and officials reported slower than usual customer traffic for this time of year. Fred Beierle, 39, who works in finance and lives in Hoboken, N.J., had planned to shop Saturday but stayed home because of the blizzard. By Sunday, though, he and his girlfriend were roaming the Willowbrook Mall in Wayne, about 30 minutes to the northwest. 
 ''We're lucky we came out in the blizzard,'' he said. ''Everyone thinks the roads are bad, so they stay off them. But the roads are fine.''
 Snowstorms are often grim news for any store not selling groceries, but retail experts said the weekend storms, while poorly timed, were not catastrophic to businesses. 
 Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for the market research firm NPD Group, characterized the blizzard as the ''second worst'' thing that could happen to retailers, after a recession.
 ''That's the bad news,'' Mr. Cohen said on Saturday. ''The good news is it is only one day and most stores will get it back over the week or online.''
 Snow was not the only drag on a normally vibrant shopping weekend. The flagship Macy's store in Midtown Manhattan had to be evacuated for nearly 90 minutes on Sunday because of an escalator fire, the New York Fire Department said. There were no injuries reported.
 The biggest losers from the blizzard were probably regional retailers and local merchants, he said, which he estimated could lose up to 2 percent of sales.
 The effect of the blizzard will not be known for certain until early January, when the nation's chains report their monthly sales figures. 
 Retail analysts expect that many consumers who did not brave the elements on Saturday and Sunday will shop this week instead. Others might have shifted their holiday shopping to the Internet -- which means that when sales are tallied, Saturday could prove to be a bright spot for online retailing.
 ''We certainly have seen in the past an effect from storms like this,'' said Norman Black, a spokesman for United Parcel Service, ''that it can prompt more people to buy things online, when they can't go out and look at them themselves in the store.'' 
 E-commerce is one of the few retail categories thriving these days. From the frenzied shopping day after Thanksgiving through Dec. 12, sales were up 14.4 percent from last year, according to data released on Sunday by SpendingPulse, an information service of MasterCard Advisors that estimates sales for all forms of payment, including cash, checks and credit cards. 
 Michael McNamara, vice president for research and analysis at SpendingPulse, said in an interview last week that storms had helped online sales in the past.
 Neither United Parcel Service nor FedEx would provide data about whether the storm had improved Web sales and resulted in more shipments. Mr. Black said Monday would probably be United Parcel Service's busiest day of the year. The company is expecting to move 22 million packages that day -- about 40 percent more than on an average day. 
 Anecdotal reports from stores around the country confirmed that sales slowed in areas hit hardest by the blizzard. Only four of 24 shopping centers owned by Taubman Centers -- Fair Oaks in Fairfax, Va.; Regency Square and Stony Point Fashion Park in Richmond, Va.; and the Mall at Short Hills in New Jersey -- closed early on Saturday because of the storm. 
 Despite being blanketed in several inches of snow, all of Taubman's centers opened on time on Sunday, with customer traffic light in the morning and increasing throughout the afternoon, said Karen Mac Donald, a spokeswoman for Taubman. Many chains were open until 10 or 11 p.m. on Sunday, hoping to make up any lost sales.
 By Sunday afternoon, shoppers were venturing out again, determined to complete their to-do lists. 
 ''I had to wait for my unemployment check to come in before I could go out and Christmas shop,'' said Laura Madeo, 47, of Hope, N.J., who recently lost her job as a social worker. Ms. Madeo, worried that anything she might buy online would not arrive in time for Christmas, dug her car out of a foot of snow on Sunday to go shopping at Willowbrook Mall.
 Ms. Mac Donald said in an e-mail message that at 3 p.m. at Fair Oaks in Fairfax, Va., the shopping center was ''as busy as you would expect on the Sunday before Christmas,'' with no stores having to offer unplanned markdowns because of the weather. 
 Industry sales in some big retailing categories were looking slightly better this month after a ho-hum November, according to SpendingPulse. 
 From the day after Thanksgiving through Dec. 12, a handful of sectors posted only mild declines. They included clothing (down 1.2 percent), jewelry (down 0.2 percent) and luxury goods (down 2 percent). Better performing categories since Black Friday included sales of footwear (up 4.9 percent) and electronics (up 3.2 percent). 
 Susan Bongiorno, a homemaker in Bloomfield, N.J., went shopping early Sunday to buy her 17-year-old daughter the Rock Band II video game. The scarcity of shoppers might not have been good for the stores, but it was great for Ms. Bongiorno. 
 ''You have so many service people wanting to help you,'' she said. ''Normally you can't find one because the stores are so mobbed. At Best Buy this morning I had three guys helping me at once. I just stood there and they did all the running.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rhonda Fauria of Massachusetts shopped with her children on Sunday. The weekend before Christmas is important for retailers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); WEATHER (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (50%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (50%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



620 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 167 words

 BODY:
A HOLIDAY WEEK The stock and bond markets will close early on Thursday ahead of Christmas, and the markets, government offices and most businesses will be closed Friday in observance of Christmas. 
 ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include the final gross domestic product for the third quarter and existing home sales for November (Tuesday); personal income and spending for November, the Reuters-University of Michigan consumer sentiment index and new-home sales for November (Wednesday); and durable goods orders for November (Thursday).
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from ConAgra Foods and Walgreen (Monday); and Navistar (Tuesday).
 OVERSEAS The Organization for the Petroleum Exporting Countries meets in Angola and is expected to maintain its production quota (Tuesday).
 European Union environment ministers are expected to extend duties on shoes from China and Vietnam (Tuesday).
 OBAMA MEETS WITH BANKERSPresident Obama meets with the leaders of several small and community banks (Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); NEW HOME SALES (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); BONDS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); BOND MARKETS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%)

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (57%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



621 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1977 words

HEADLINE: Health Bill Passes Key Test in the Senate With 60 Votes

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After a long day of acid, partisan debate, Senate Democrats held ranks early Monday in a dead-of-night procedural vote that proved they had locked in the decisive margin needed to pass a far-reaching overhaul of the nation's health care system. 
 The roll was called shortly after 1 a.m., with Washington still snowbound after a weekend blizzard, and the Senate voted on party lines to cut off a Republican filibuster of a package of changes to the health care bill by the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada. 
 The vote was 60 to 40 -- a tally that is expected to be repeated four times as further procedural hurdles are cleared in the days ahead, and then once more in a dramatic, if predictable, finale tentatively scheduled for 7 p.m. on Christmas Eve. 
 Both parties hailed the vote as seismic. 
 Democrats said it showed them poised to reshape the health system after decades of failed attempts. 
 ''Health care in America ought to be a right, not a privilege,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut. ''Since the time of Harry Truman, every Congress, Republican and Democrat, every president, Democrat and Republican, have at least thought about doing this. Some actually tried.'' 
 Republicans said that the bill was fatally flawed and that voters would retaliate against Democrats at the polls in November. 
 ''It's obvious why the majority has cooked up this amendment in secret, has introduced it in the middle of a snowstorm, has scheduled the Senate to come in session at midnight, has scheduled a vote for 1 a.m., is insisting that it be passed before Christmas -- because they don't want the American people to know what's in it,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee. 
 Mr. Alexander added, ''Our friends on the Democratic side seem determined to pursue a political kamikaze mission toward a historic mistake.'' 
 Each side blamed the other for the extraordinary series of votes -- at dawn Saturday, after midnight Monday, at dawn again on Tuesday, at 1 p.m. on Wednesday and finally on Christmas Eve, when most Americans will be sequestered for the holiday. 
 The Democrats charged the Republicans with obstinately throwing every procedural obstacle in their way, including filibusters and the full 30 hours of debate allowed under the rules after each filibuster is broken by a vote of 60 senators. 
 The Republicans charged the Democrats with recklessly rushing to adopt a dizzyingly complex 2,700-page bill that would affect virtually every American, and would reshape one-sixth of the nation's economy at a cost of $871 billion over 10 years. 
 ''If the Republicans want to exercise every single right they have under the rules, they can keep us here until Christmas Eve, no doubt about it,'' said Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa. ''But to what end, I ask? To what end? We're going to have the vote at 1 a.m. that requires 60 votes, and then why stay here until Christmas Eve to do what they know we're going to do?'' 
 Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said he and his colleagues had a duty to fight until the last minute. 
 ''There is nothing inevitable about this,'' Mr. Cornyn said. ''The only thing I think inevitable about it is in the light of the unpopularity of what is being jammed down the throats of the American people, there will be a day of accounting. We don't know when that day of accounting will be. Perhaps the first day of accounting will be Election Day 2010.'' 
 Adoption of the legislation is not a certainty. 
 The Senate bill, once completed, must be reconciled with the bill adopted by the House last month, and there are substantial differences between the two. The House measure, for instance, includes a government-run health insurance plan, or public option, that was dropped from the Senate bill. 
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, has said the House would not just accept the Senate bill. And some Senate Democrats have warned that they could turn against the bill if changes made during negotiations with the House are not to their liking. 
 Given the late hour, the White House did not immediately issue a statement after the Senate vote. 
 The health care legislation, which President Obama has called his top domestic priority, seeks to extend health benefits to more than 30 million people who are currently uninsured. The bill would require nearly all Americans to obtain health insurance, or pay financial penalties for failing to do so, and it would provide federal subsidies to help moderate-income Americans buy private coverage. 
 About half of the people who would gain coverage, some 15 million, would do so through a broad expansion of Medicaid, the federal-state insurance program for low-income Americans, and growth in the Children's Health Insurance Program. 
 To pay for the new coverage, the bill would impose an array of fees and taxes, including an increase in the payroll tax for individuals earning more than $200,000 and couples earning more than $250,000 and a new excise tax on high-cost insurance polices. The bill also calls for major reductions in government spending, by slowing the growth of Medicare. 
 The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said that the $871 billion cost of the bill would be more than offset by the new revenues and cuts in spending, so that it would reduce future federal budget deficits by $132 billion between 2010 and 2019. 
 The outcome of the Monday morning vote was effectively decided on Saturday, when Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, the last holdout, announced that he would support the bill and Mr. Reid unveiled his final ''manager's'' package of changes. Mr. Reid's amendment included provisions aimed at winning over Mr. Nelson and others. Republicans derided the changes as akin to bribery. 
 On Sunday, any lingering doubts were put to rest. Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, who voted in favor of several Republican amendments to the health care bill, issued a statement saying he would support the measure. And Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, who had been in intense talks with the White House, issued a statement saying she would vote no. 
 But the late-night session was not without drama, thanks to the tremendous snowstorm on Saturday that buried much of the Northeast, and limited the travel options of some senators caught away from Washington. With Amtrak experiencing severe delays, a government plane was sent to retrieve Senators Frank R. Lautenberg and Robert Menendez, the New Jersey Democrats.
 Because the Democrats nominally control the votes of 60 senators -- 58 Democrats and two independents aligned with them -- which is the precise number needed to overcome filibusters, the absence of even one lawmaker would have changed the outcome of the vote and would probably have forced Democrats to miss their deadline of adopting the health care legislation by Christmas. 
 The most senior senator, Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, who turned 92 years old last month and uses a wheelchair, was invoked by both sides as a victim of the parliamentary warfare that has the Senate convening at all hours of the day and night. 
 The 1 a.m. Monday vote was on a motion to cut off debate on Mr. Reid's manager's package. A simple majority vote to approve the package is scheduled for roughly 7 a.m. on Tuesday. 
 The middle-of-the night session had a surreal quality to it. The chaplain, Barry C. Black, who opened the contentious Sunday session of the Senate with a prayer earlier in the afternoon, did so again at 12:01 a.m. to officially begin a new legislative day. 
 For many Democrats, the landmark vote summoned the memory of the late Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, a champion of universal health care for his entire career, but who died in August before achieving that goal. 
 Mr. Kennedy's widow, Victoria Reggie Kennedy, sat in the front row of the spectator gallery to watch the vote. Seated behind her was the secretary of health and human services, Kathleen Sebelius, and the director of the White House Office of Health Reform, Nancy-Ann DeParle.
 Several senators embraced Mrs. Kennedy after the vote. ''Without him, it never would have happened,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, told her. 
 ''The historic moment before us is the easiest choice and perhaps the most historic vote we may ever cast as United States senators,'' said Senator Paul G. Kirk, Democrat of Massachusetts, who was named to fill Mr. Kennedy's seat. ''Is this a bill of real reform that Ted Kennedy would champion and vote for? Absolutely, yes. Ted Kennedy knew real reform when he saw it, and so do I.'' 
 But Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, who was one of Mr. Kennedy's closest friends in the Senate and who worked with him on many bipartisan health care bills over the years, said Democrats had failed to live up to Mr. Kennedy's spirit of cooperation. 
 ''The historic blizzard in Washington yesterday was a perfect symbol of the anger and frustration brewing,'' Mr. Hatch said. ''I don't know of one Republican who is going to vote for this. If you can't get 75 to 80 votes on something that is this important for this much reform, we should start over and do it on a step-by-step basis.'' 
 The Sunday session was one of the most bitter in memory, as the pre-determined outcome of the impending vote seemed only to frustrate lawmakers on both sides as they clashed in speeches on the Senate floor. 
 Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, infuriated Democrats by suggesting that opponents of the legislation ''pray'' for a Democrat to miss the vote. 
 Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, gave a sharply worded speech bemoaning ''the malignant and vindictive passions that have descended on the Senate.''
 The bitterness continued up until the moment when senators cast the ayes and nays from their desks in a ceremonial formality that is reserved for momentous votes. The process lasted a scant nine minutes. 
 The Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, lashed out at Democrats in his closing speech, charging that they were defying the will of the American people, and that Mr. Obama was breaking numerous campaign promises. ''If the people who wrote this bill were proud of it, they wouldn't be forcing this vote in the dead of night,'' he said. 
 When Mr. McConnell asserted that Democrats were responsible for the late session, Democratic senators, including Mr. Reid, the majority leader, laughed out loud, their snickers audible in the gallery overlooking the chamber. 
 Mr. McConnell implored at least one Democrat to vote no, and issued a pointed political warning. ''All it takes is one, just one,'' he said, turning to look at the Democratic side of the chamber. ''One can stop it or every single one will own it. My colleagues, it is not too late.'' 
 But it was. 
 Mr. Reid, in his closing speech, talked about his constituents in Nevada who need to visit doctors but cannot afford to do so because they do not have health coverage, or who need medical treatment that was denied by insurance companies. 
 ''This is not about politics,'' Mr. Reid said. ''This is not about polling. It's about people. It's about life and death in America. It's about human suffering, and given the chance to relieve this suffering, we must. Citizens in each of our states have written to tell us they're broke because of our broken health care system.'' 
 After the vote, jubilant Democrats milled about the corridors outside the chamber. Mr. Schumer teased Mr. Reid, a devout Mormon who forgoes alcohol. ''You're almost going to have a drink,'' Mr. Schumer said, clapping Mr. Reid on the back. 
 Mr. Schumer said Democrats were prepared to continue voting all week. ''It's up to Mitch McConnell if we stay here until Christmas Eve,'' he said. ''The die is cast.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); POLITICS (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (73%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009



622 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: From 2000 to 2010: Defining the Decade

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson Plan | What were the most important events and developments of this decade, and how have they shaped us and the world? 

 BODY:
Overview | What have been the most important events and developments of this decade, and how have they shaped us and our world? In this lesson, students reflect on and research defining events of the decade and create a video, timeline, trading cards or an essay. They then consider some of the names that have been proposed for the decade and suggest their own.
Materials | Copies of "From '00 to '10: Defining the Decade" handout; computers with Internet access and a projector; almanacs and back issues of news magazine; optional, depending on activity (see below): video equipment; 10-20 sheets of flip-chart paper or poster board; tape and markers or timeline-creating software; unlined 3" x 5" index cards; markers; photographs; glue; paint; computers with word-processing and printing capability.
Warm-Up | Ask students: What do you remember most about the past 10 years? Distribute copies of the "From '00 to '10: Defining the Decade" handout (PDF) for students to complete individually. 
When students are finished, have them meet in small groups to discuss the events they wrote down in the second section on their handouts. Each group should choose one event from each category to place on an outline that spans the length of your board. Give each group one color marker or piece of chalk to easily identify each group's work. Because most students will plan to use 9/11 as one of their events, place it on the timeline yourself. 
When students have finished, walk the length of the outline, pausing to have groups read the events and talk about them. Ask the class to point out any dates that seem inaccurate and to make corrections, as needed. When you finish your "walk through," invite students to identify and add other essential events to the outline. 
Alternatively, or in addition, have students complete the Learning Network game The Decade That Was: 50 Fill-Ins, and/or, if you have the technology on hand, show Newsweek's "The Decade in Seven Minutes" video.
Tell students that today, they will read an article about possible names for the decade that encompass as many events as possible or that address the prevailing mood. Ask students to share the words they wrote at the bottom of the sheet, and write them on the board, and tell them that they will now read an article about attempts to encapsulate the whole decade by giving it a name. If any students have names to suggest at this point, invite them to share their ideas.
Related | In "Naming the '00s," David Segal attempts to find the most appropriate name for the decade that is ending. He offers his own and others' ideas. They include:

        
The Era of Misplaced Anxiety.
        
The Decade of Disruption.
        
The Decade of the Unthinkable.
        
The Decade of Overshoot.
        
The Noughty-Aughts.
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension: 

        
What does Segal say is the "trick" to naming the decade?
        
What examples does Walter Isaacson give for calling it "The Decade of Distractions"?
        
What does Carmen Reinhart mean by "the era when North went South"?
        
What is problematic about naming a decade before it has ended?
        
Which of the suggested names do you think is best? Why?
Activity | Students read more about the decade to fill in their memories and knowledge, and then choose one or more of the activities below to reflect on the decade. 
For any of the projects, research might entail some or all of the following:

        
Reading through New York Times and other newspaper and newsmagazine Web sites for headlines, images and sounds, as well as reader comments about important news stories.
        
Reviewing popular music, Oscar-winning movies, top television shows and other cultural phenomena. 
        
Choosing specific events from the handout and/or fill-in to investigate further, using almanacs, back issues of newsmagazines and newspapers, and Internet resources like Infoplease's year-by-year overview. 
        
Finding key events that happened in your own school, town and state in state and local newspapers and the school newspaper.
        
Contributing events from their own grade and personal lives.

Video - Students work in groups to make a video that chronicles the decade. Each group works together to narrate and present a chronological account of the most important national, international, state, local, cultural (music, movies, television shows, sports, media figures, fashion trends) and technology events of the year. Each group should think creatively about how to develop and present its segment. (If they did not watch the Newsweek video during the warm-up, you may wish to show it or assign viewing now.) Encourage students to include images of themselves and events from their own lives. Have all groups work together on the closing segment of the video, in which they, and perhaps other members of the school community, suggest names for the decade and speculate on how living through 2000-09 will shape their generation. Host a video viewing party, and consider posting it on your school's Web site or SchoolTube.Timeline - Students create a detailed cumulative decade timeline, using horizontal sheets of flip-chart paper or poster board arranged in a line along one or more walls in your classroom, hallway or other common area. When the timeline is complete, host a "Tour of the Decade." Have students lead the class through the timeline, as a member of each group tells about the events they researched in chronological order. Students may wish to also use projected images or headlines about the event as they talk. For a more high-tech alternative, have students use an online tool, like TimeGlider or Time Rime, to create their outlines.Trading Cards- Working in pairs, students select one or more key events, people or trends to be the subjects of trading cards. (You may wish to approve selections to ensure that a variety of issues and events are covered.) Using an unlined oversize index card, students use one side for a title and illustration (photograph, drawing, collage, etc.) and the other side for listing key facts, including one "that may surprise." They pass the finished trading cards around, then discuss them and display them in the school, perhaps in a display case or in the library.Personal Writing - Students write reflections on their lives and the world over the past decade. They might identify five news or cultural events and tell how each events changed their lives. You might also ask them to write about how their lives, or perhaps our culture as a whole, might be different if one of those things never happened. For fun, have them also write about how life might be different had the ubiquitous item of their choice, like smartphones, MySpace, Facebook or iPods never come along. Host a reading event in which students read excerpts from their reflections.Going Further | Students work together on a "Top 10 Events of the Decade" list. As students make their suggestions, display a running list. Lead a discussion in which students come up with a ranking system; criteria might include "affected the most people," "had furthest-reaching effects," "catalyzed other events," etc. Then have all students independently rank the 10 most important events in order. Collect and tabulate the lists, then report the classwide top 10.Make a short video or podcast in which students present the top 10 events of the decade, counting down from 10 to 1. Have the group that researched each event present it, along with important background information, audio or photo and video clips, headlines and so on. Post it on your school's Web site or SchoolTube.Standards | From McREL, for grades 6-12:Language Arts
4. Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
5. Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.
7. Uses reading skills and strategies to interpret a variety of informational texts.
8. Uses listening and speaking strategies for different purposes.
9. Uses viewing skills and strategies to understand and interpret visual media.
10. Understands the characteristics and components of the media.Historical Understanding
1. Understands and knows how to analyze chronological relationships and patterns.
2. Understands the historical perspective.United States History
31. Understands economic, social and cultural developments in the contemporary United States.World History
44. Understands the search for community, stability and peace in an interdependent world.
45. Understands major global trends since World War II.
46. Understands long-term changes and recurring patterns in world history.

        
Student Crossword |First Decade of the Century
        
The Decade That Was: 50 Fill-Ins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); HISTORY (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (54%) 21st century; decade; Academic Skills; America At War; American History; Art as a Reflection of Society; Culture and Identity; Current Events; Fine Arts; Global History; History of North America; Journalism; Journalistic Writing; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Media Studies; Personal Writing; Photojournalism; Popular Culture; Research Skills; Revolutions; Social Studies; Teaching with The New York Times; United States Intervention in Foreign Affairs; Witnessing History

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011



623 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2009

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: LED Holiday Light Sales Boom

BYLINE: LEORA BROYDO VESTEL


HIGHLIGHT: Energy-saving LED holiday lights appear to be catching on around the country -- including at the White House and Rockefeller Center. 

 BODY:
Gillian Gillett, a San Francisco resident, loved the energy-efficient, light-emitting diode holiday lights that she bought for her Christmas tree last year. This year, she bought more and draped them around a tree in front of her home.
"We decided to make our block festive by lighting our street tree with LED lights," Ms. Gillett said. "Our neighbors followed suit."
Indeed, decorative LED holiday lights appear to be catching on in homes across the country. With the nation's most iconic Christmas trees lighting the way -- the White House and Rockefeller Center trees are decked out in LEDs -- retailers are reporting brisk sales for the lights this season, despite the rough economy.
Jean Niemi, a spokeswoman for Home Depot, said that her company is posting a triple-digit increase in LED holiday light sales compared with 2008. And Christmas Lights Etc., an online retailer, announced a 200 percent increase in LED sales over last year.
"People are really starting to get it this year," Ms. Niemi said.
Jagdish Rebello, an electronics market analyst at iSuppli, said that LEDs would account for 25 to 50 percent of total holiday light sales this year, despite prices that can be two to three times as high as traditional incandescent holiday lights.
Over 100 million decorative light strings are expected to be sold in the United States this year, according to government statistics.
While LEDs have been used as indicator lights in electronics products for many years, manufacturers only recently began using them in household lighting products. And until LED holiday lights came along, incandescents had the Christmas lighting market cornered.
Alex Baker, the lighting program manager with Energy Star, a government energy-efficiency rating system for lighting and other products, pointed to government data that says that LEDs use up to 90 percent less energy than incandescent bulbs to produce the same amount of light, and can last up to 10 times as long. 
He also said holiday lights transform only about 5 percent of the power that they use into light, while the rest is emitted as heat. Colored incandescent holiday lights are even less efficient, with as little as 1 percent of the energy being converted to light.
"You can have a bunch of lights heating the great outdoors," Mr. Baker said.
In head-to-head performance tests, Consumer Reports found some incandescent holiday lights burned more brightly than LEDs, but that LEDs were "much more durable, ran cooler and posed a lower fire risk, and cost less to operate."
LEDs have other selling points as well, including the availability of solar-powered outdoor holiday lights, which use rechargeable batteries, but no electricity. And, unlike incandescents, a problem with one LED light does not affect the rest of the string.
But while LED holiday lights are a hot commodity this year, most consumers have yet to look to LEDs as replacements for standard incandescent light bulbs. Success in the holiday lighting category may help to change this.
"Holiday lighting is a starting point for consumers to trial LED lighting for the home," said Susan Bloom, director of corporate communications for Philips Lighting, which has a new line of LED bulbs for household sockets on offer at Home Depot.
However, some in the industry argue that the relative inexpensiveness of LED holiday lights will create low-cost expectations for other types of LEDs.
"Not to sound like a Scrooge, but most LED holiday lights are cheaply made, considered disposable and therefore fail to communicate one of the key values of the technology: long life," said Don Peifer, chief technology officer at Lunera Lighting, a company that makes LEDs. 
 "Consumers should look for a higher level of quality as they transition into the next generation of lighting in the home," he said.

        
A New Use for LEDs: Mind Control
        
Repeal Vote Set on Light Bulb Standards
        
The Charge of California's Light Brigade
        
Federal Agency Sues LED Bulb Maker
        
To Go Where Compact Fluorescents Cannot

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (95%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); ELECTRONICS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); STATISTICS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%) LED; Light-Emitting Diodes; Lighting

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012



624 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: A 'Gift of Life' With Money Attached

BYLINE: By SALLY SATEL, M.D.. 
Dr. Sally Satel is a psychiatrist and a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute.

 BODY:
''For the right price, yes, I would give up one of my organs to save someone's life,'' read the e-mail message, one of three dozen I received last month. ''I live from paycheck to paycheck.'' 
 What prompted this modest onslaught of correspondence was a tongue-in-cheek article by Mark Cohen in his ''White Collar Reset'' column for America Online. 
 Mr. Cohen, who describes himself as ''a jobless 47-year-old suburban New Jersey magazine editor with two mortgages,'' has been writing a series of columns exploring ''previously taboo plans for recapitalizing our household.'' In one such column, he mused about dispensing medical marijuana (if New Jersey ever legalizes it, of course). And last month, he turned his attention to vital organs. 
 ''I'm considering selling one of my kidneys,'' he wrote.
 Because I've become fairly well known as an advocate of incentives for organ donation, Mr. Cohen called me to discuss the pros and cons of his plan. As someone who has become deeply concerned about the organ shortage after receiving a kidney a few years ago, I told him I thought he would be a perfect candidate for such a transaction: educated, a savvy consumer, someone who, with proper informed consent, would know what he was signing up for. The only catch is that getting anything of value in exchange for an organ is illegal. 
 I told Mr. Cohen I thought that if compensated donation were allowed, it would come to resemble surrogate motherhood. In some states, mothers who agree to carry a baby for an infertile couple are legally compensated for their time and for the risk they assume. 
 And while surrogate mothers surely welcome such payments, they are hardly the only factor in the decision; many say they are motivated by a strong desire to help another woman fulfill her maternal dream. At first, organ compensation, like surrogacy, would seem odd, but then it would become more generally accepted.
 ''The more Satel talked,'' Mr. Cohen wrote, ''the less selling my kidney seemed like some bizarre, macabre act of depravity, and the more I wondered why the hell I hadn't thought of it before.''
 Dozens of readers must have wondered the same thing. The first to write me was a mother of four named Jessica from Washington State. Several months ago, her youngest child was born prematurely and suffered major complications. ''The reason I am telling the story,'' Jessica wrote, ''is because we spent everything we had in savings, pulled money from retirement, etc. ... to allow me to pay for day care so I could spend every day in the NICU.'' 
 She continued, ''I would seriously consider donating to someone who may die without it if it meant it helped save them and helped my situation also.'' 
 Chip from Arizona was in a similar position. ''In the past I have very seriously considered 'donating' an organ for compensation as my life is financially in ruins, to put it mildly.'' He went on, ''And to me, it makes better sense to 'donate' a organ than to go rob a corner gas station or liquor store for grocery money -- safer too, for everyone, not to mention the ability to save/improve someone else's life in the process!'' 
 The messages kept coming. 
 ''I am in good health and very interested in donating. Due to financial burdens, being compensated would be very helpful, and my organs could also benefit the receiver.'' 
 ''I was making $ 100,000 a year, and now I am not working. ... So yes, I would sell a kidney to someone who needs it.'' 
 A number of writers rightly pointed out the need for strict protections for the donor, including careful education, medical and emotional screening, follow-up care and an enforceable contract to ensure the promised compensation.
 Organ selling as a sign of the recession? No question. But it is much more than that. Almost every writer spoke of helping someone else, of combining financial with humanitarian motives. 
 The desire to do well by others -- for pay -- is as old as humankind. Think of firefighters, police officers, doctors and teachers. Their service is no less valuable because they are paid for it.
 Yet it is all too easy to romanticize altruism. The ''gift of life'' is indeed precious; I received it. But I am not so starry-eyed about my good fortune that I am blinded to the reality that altruism is not producing enough organs: 83,000 Americans wait for a kidney; 13 will die today while waiting. 
 Sadly, the transplant establishment insists that sick people languish on dialysis for years or die waiting for a kidney. They fear, on one hand, that the patient might remunerate someone for saving his life and, on the other, that any donor in financial need can't possibly make a rational decision about his own best interest. 
 The solution to this lethal paternalism, as I and others have argued, is not to create a direct exchange of cash for kidneys, but for Congress to let donors accept a carefully devised and regulated government benefit -- perhaps a tax credit, a contribution to a retirement plan or early access to Medicare. 
 People like Jessica and Chip could get some help with bills. Desperate patients would be rescued from suffering and premature death. In reciprocity is salvation for both. There is nothing bizarre or macabre about that. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOSEPH DANIEL FIEDLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGAN DONATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SURROGATE MOTHERHOOD (86%); PATIENT CONSENT (74%); BIOETHICS (74%); CANNABIS (69%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (68%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (63%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (63%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (54%)

COMPANY: AOL INC (57%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



625 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Arizona Plans Prisoner Transfer

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Desperate to save money, Arizona will transfer illegal immigrants who have been convicted of nonviolent crimes to federal custody for the last three months of their sentences, saving the state the cost of housing them. 
 Currently, prisoners who are not illegal immigrants are eligible to leave prison 90 days before their sentences end and begin community service. Under the new plan, which begins Jan. 1, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency will take custody of the illegal immigrants pending deportation. The Arizona Department of Corrections said that a total of more than 1,200 prisoners would be moved this fiscal year and next, saving about $5.7 million.
 Gov. Jan Brewer called for the move in an address to senior members of her administration after the Legislature hammered out a plan over the weekend to cut nearly $200 million from the current budget to help close a $1.5 billion shortfall. Like many other Western states, Arizona has been hit disproportionately by the foreclosure crisis, halting the state's economic growth. 
 Arizona also has some of the toughest sentencing laws in the country, and its prison costs are about $1 billion a year.
 ''The cost of incarcerating these criminals is not Arizona's responsibility,'' Ms. Brewer said in prepared remarks. ''By federal law, the cost of their incarceration is the responsibility of the federal government. However, the federal government is refusing to adequately fund this program.''
 Arizona, like many other states, already releases some jailed illegal immigrants to the immigration authorities, but the new plan would expand the pool. Currently, it releases about 200 prisoners a month to immigration before their sentences are finished, according to the federal agency.
 ''Identifying and removing deportable criminal aliens is a top priority for I.C.E.,'' Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in a prepared statement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); DEPORTATION (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (53%)

PERSON: JAN BREWER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (96%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



626 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Inadequate Oversight Cited In Weatherization Program

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
When federal inspectors visited Illinois recently to see how the state was using $242 million in stimulus money for weatherizing homes, they were troubled by what they found. 
 A weatherization contractor had done slipshod work, installing a furnace that leaked gas in one home, they said, and the local agency overseeing the work had failed to detect the leak. The state was not inspecting the work of all the agencies administering the work, and the federal government was not making required site visits. In short, both the state and federal oversight of the program fell short, they found.
 The Department of Energy's inspector general, Gregory H. Friedman, was so concerned by what his investigators found in Illinois that he issued an unusual ''management alert'' this month, rather than waiting for a final audit report to be issued. The management alert cautioned that the lack of oversight was putting the goals of the weatherization program -- which is intended to cut energy use and utility bills -- at risk. And it warned that ''the safety of homeowners and area residents could be placed in jeopardy if substandard weatherization work goes undetected.'' 
 The alarms about the weatherization program -- which were being sounded in the home state of its champion, President Obama, who proposed expanding it before taking office -- underscored the challenges in taking a government program and supersizing it with stimulus cash.
 The stimulus program is giving the weatherization program $5 billion over the next couple of years, nearly as much as the program has spent since its creation in the 1970s. Illinois, chosen for an inspection along with three other states, stands to get more weatherization money over the next few years than the entire nation did last year.
 The money will allow Illinois to triple the number of homes it weatherizes: it expects the stimulus money will pay to insulate, seal leaks, and add more energy-efficient equipment to some 26,933 homes of people with low incomes. The state is using 35 local community agencies to administer the program by finding people eligible for it, hiring contractors to perform the work and then inspecting that work.
 The federal inspectors visited just five homes, but found troubles. Besides the undetected gas leak, they found that the state had failed to inspect the stimulus work of some of the local agencies it was using. The state is required to inspect 5 percent of weatherized homes; state officials were quoted as saying that they had inspected 5 percent of the overall number of homes, but not 5 percent of the work done by each agency. The state had planned to hire 21 people to help administer the program, the report noted, but a state hiring freeze delayed the plan. 
 Energy Department officials told the inspectors that it would perform the required site inspections this year. Jen Stutsman, an agency spokeswoman, said Monday that safety was the department's top priority. 
 ''Illinois runs a strong weatherization program, but they allowed their oversight efforts to slip,'' she said. ''This report provides an important reminder for all of our grantees to maintain the strong safety oversight required by the weatherization program.''
 An official with the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, which administers the program, did not respond to questions by deadline. 
 The expanded program has gotten off to a slow start. Many states waited until recently to begin weatherizing homes because of confusion over a provision in the stimulus bill requiring weatherization workers to be paid prevailing wages. Other states worry they may have to conduct reviews of old homes that they plan to weatherize in order to comply with historic preservation laws. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); AUDITS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



627 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: For Detroit Council, New Faces May Offer a New Chance

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
More than 160 people competed in the Detroit City Council primary election earlier this year -- an unusually large number that reflects, some political analysts say, the widespread weariness with the Council's antics and dysfunction.
 Now, as the five winners prepare to take office in a few weeks, expectations are growing that this beleaguered city will see its first significant shift in governance in many years. 
 The sense of optimism in some corners is based in part on the new members' relationship with Mayor Dave Bing, a no-nonsense businessman and former basketball star who won a full term as mayor last month. The five Council winners -- among them, a former television news anchor, a pastor and a former deputy police chief -- emphasized the need in their campaigns to work cooperatively with one another and with Mr. Bing, who in his short tenure in office has taken a tough-love approach to the city's many problems. 
 ''Work horses, not show horses,'' Robert A. Ficano, the Wayne County executive, said of the new members. Mr. Ficano, who has often been critical of the city's political leadership, endorsed all five of the newly elected members and is also a backer of Mr. Bing. The nonpartisan, nine-member Council will now have a majority of newcomers, which Mr. Ficano predicted would result in ''a very pragmatic and practical Council.''
 For years, former Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, who pleaded guilty last year to felony charges of obstruction of justice, and the City Council had a nonworking relationship. The gridlock at City Hall led to a lack of confidence in government. In particular, it fostered stalemates and miscommunication over business deals and the city's dire finances. 
 Some of the Council members, moreover, were notorious for not getting along among themselves; and those were only the petty issues. In June, City Councilwoman Monica Conyers resigned after pleading guilty to a felony charge of conspiracy to commit bribery and admitting she had accepted cash-filled envelopes in exchange for her tie-breaking vote on a city contract. 
 ''In the city of Detroit, no one is wildly optimistic about the future at this time, but there is a sense that the politics that will take place will not be the politics that had been taking place prior to this election,'' said Lawrence A. Dubin, a law professor at the University of Detroit Mercy Law School. ''They have expressed a sincere desire to put the city's interests first, which will be refreshing.''
 Among the newcomers is Charles Pugh, the Council's president-elect, who in his first bid for public office received more votes than any other Council candidate. Some attributed his success to his celebrity as a news anchor, while others cited his life story, which includes a series of setbacks all too familiar in a chronically distressed city.
 In the campaign, Mr. Pugh pledged to change the culture at City Hall, and positioned himself as business friendly, hard on crime and supportive of regional mass transit. ''We need a higher standard of ethics and transparency and competence and cooperation, not just with each other but with our region and our state,'' said Mr. Pugh, 38. ''That hasn't been the message of the past, but it's a new day.''
 Mr. Pugh's mother was murdered when he was 3 years old. His father committed suicide four years later. Raised by his grandmother, Mr. Pugh, earned a scholarship to the University of Missouri, where he studied journalism. But more recently, his financial troubles have played out in public: He almost lost his downtown condominium to foreclosure earlier this year after leaving his news position to run for office. The mortgage is being modified, and Mr. Pugh remains in his home.
 ''I want Detroiters to know that you don't have to come from a rich family, you don't have to have degrees from Harvard, you don't have to be somebody who had two parents, and you don't have to be straight,'' said Mr. Pugh, who is gay, in a recent interview. ''I want people to know that you can go through difficulty, but that difficulty can't define you.''
 Toward the end of the campaign, Mr. Pugh and four other novice, like-minded candidates decided to join a loose union based on shared ideals, and they all won. The others are Saunteel Jenkins, a social worker; Andre L. Spivey, a pastor; James Tate, a former police spokesman; and Gary Brown, a former deputy police chief whose wrongful termination lawsuit helped expose statements that led to Mr. Kilpatrick's guilty pleas and resignation.
 Four incumbents remain on the City Council, but the new members, at least so far, suggest there will be no animosity between old and new. When the new Council members take office on Jan. 5 , they will face the immediate task of grappling with a $300 million hole in the $3.1 billion budget and a local unemployment rate widely considered underestimated at 27 percent. 
 ''We have to tackle crime and public corruption, a high foreclosure and illiteracy rate,'' said Mr. Spivey, 35. ''We have a lot to do.''
 Ms. Jenkins, 39, apprenticed with the Council as a college student, then worked for years as a councilwoman's chief of staff. She, too, emphasized the need for more regional unity, and also better race relations.
 ''One of the things that's very distracting about this region,'' Ms. Jenkins said, ''is that it is one of the most segregated areas in the country -- much of what we've done in the public policy area has been based on perceptions formed by our 1967 race riots. We want to form much more cooperative relationships.''
 Ms. Jenkins's financial troubles also became part of the campaign. She defaulted on a mortgage this year. She has since restructured the loan, and remains in her home. Mr. Pugh and Ms. Jenkins argued that their mortgage issues did not affect their leadership potential. 
 Voters seemed to agree.
 ''The situation that a lot of candidates found themselves in was not dissimilar to what people were facing,'' said Francis Grunow, a civic activist and former executive director of Preservation Wayne, an organization that seeks to protect architecture and neighborhoods. ''It raised eyebrows, but it did humanize them and helped people relate to them. I believe it is a good group.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''We need a higher standard of ethics and transparency and competence,'' said Charles Pugh, a political newcomer who is president-elect of the City Council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH CONLEY/DETROIT NEWS)
The other new members of the Council are, from left, James Tate, Gary Brown, Saunteel Jenkins and Andre L. Spivey. Their campaigns worked together. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE PEREZ/DETROIT NEWS
ELIZABETH CONLEY/DETROIT NEWS
 BRANDY BAKER/DETROIT NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); FELONIES (86%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); CELEBRITIES (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); BRIBERY (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (69%); HORSES (67%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (67%); LAWYERS (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); CONSPIRACY (64%); LAW SCHOOLS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); BASKETBALL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



628 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Markets Rebound on Assist by Optimistic Analysts

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Monday, erasing last week's losses, as analysts recommended companies from Alcoa to Intel. Health care shares also surged after Congress delayed a new tax in the proposed industry overhaul.
 Alcoa, the aluminum producer, rallied 7.9 percent after Morgan Stanley lifted its rating on the company to overweight on speculation that metal prices would keep rallying. 
 Intel added 2.3 percent as Barclays analysts said shares of the computer chip maker were cheap. Cigna and Aetna advanced at least 3.9 percent as legislation calling for sweeping overhaul of the health care system survived a crucial test vote. 
 ''Every day that the legislation gets watered down and they pull more teeth, the health care stocks rally because there is going to be less damage to their profits,'' said Scott R. Tapley, a portfolio manager at 1st Source Investment Advisors in South Bend, Ind. ''As we get more clarity, it's easier to have more confidence about the valuations for these stocks.''
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 1.05 percent, or 11.58 points, to 1,114.05 for the biggest gain in three weeks. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 85.25 points, or 0.83 percent, to close 10,414.14. The Nasdaq rose 25.97 points, or 1.17 percent, to end at 2,237.66.
 ''It's very possible that we could get a rally in the last two weeks of the year,'' said Richard Sichel, chief investment officer at the Philadelphia Trust Company. ''You're looking at an economy that looks a lot better than it did a year ago. We've had some pretty good earnings, and if there's any top-line growth, we'll continue to see better earnings.''
 The S.& P. 500 has advanced 65 percent since reaching a 12-year low in March. Economic reports this week include existing-home sales for November, third-quarter personal consumption and gross domestic product.
 Investors bet an accelerating recovery would fuel inflation and reduce demand for government debt as the country borrowed record amounts. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 28/32, to 97 17/32. The yield climbed to 3.67 percent, from 3.54 percent late Friday. 
 ''We expect U.S. macro numbers scheduled for this week to confirm earlier reports that the economy is recovering,'' said Dirk Pattyn, a fund manager at Bank Degroof in Brussels.
 The Mosaic Company and the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan rallied after a recommendation by Goldman Sachs to buy the shares on the outlook for higher fertilizer prices.
 The Terex Corporation, a maker of construction equipment, rose 9 percent, to $20.94, after agreeing to sell its mining business to Bucyrus International for $1.3 billion in cash. Bucyrus surged 9.8 percent, to $55.84.
 American companies are paying the biggest premiums on record in takeovers, a sign executives are growing more bullish about profits and stocks. The average premium in mergers and acquisitions in which American companies were the buyer and seller rose to 56 percent this year, from 47 percent last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
 E*Trade Financial slipped 1.1 percent, to $1.76. The online brokerage named Robert Druskin as chairman and interim chief executive while searching for a permanent successor for Donald H. Layton, who is stepping down when his contract expires at the end of this year.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); METALS MARKETS (77%); BASE METALS MARKETS (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (73%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BOND MARKETS (65%); PUBLIC DEBT (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MINES & MINING (60%); FERTILIZERS (60%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (90%); INTEL CORP (84%); MOSAIC CO (61%); POTASH CORP OF SASKATCHEWAN INC (61%); TEREX CORP (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (59%); CIGNA CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BANQUE DEGROOF SA (51%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (90%); AA (NYSE) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MOS (NYSE) (61%); POT (TSX) (61%); POT (NYSE) (61%); TEX (NYSE) (60%); GS (NYSE) (59%); CI (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325312 PHOSPHATIC FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (61%); NAICS212392 PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (61%); NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3532 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, EXCEPT OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (60%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (56%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



629 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: New Yorkers Unhappy? Maybe Just Perceptive

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In this season given to tidings of comfort and joy, word has come that we New Yorkers are the sad sacks of the United States. This is something of a surprise. Sure, we complain a lot. Grumbling could qualify as the official state sport. But are we really the unhappiest of them all?
 It seems so, judging from a study by two economics professors, newly published in Science magazine. The academics -- Andrew J. Oswald, of the University of Warwick in Britain, and Stephen Wu, of Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y. -- examined piles of data, tossed them into a research Cuisinart and came up with a guide to American happiness, ranked by state. On the smiley scale, New York landed on the bottom. 
 Dead last?
 ''I'm sorry about that,'' Professor Oswald said by phone from Warwick.
 It's rather dismal. If there were a National Happy League, we'd be the New Jersey Nets. We're No. 51 out of 51. The District of Columbia was included in the list as if it were a state. It made it all the way to No. 37 despite the handicap of having Congress in its midst.
 At least New Yorkers can take comfort in knowing that their immediate neighbors in Connecticut (No. 50) and New Jersey (No. 49) are not appreciably happier.
 A remarkable aspect of this study is that Professors Wu and Oswald concluded that we are not gruntled without even having asked what we think of Albany, Donald Trump or Thom Browne suits. Rather, they focused on two sets of information.
 One was a survey of 1.3 million Americans done over four years by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which asked people about their health and how satisfied they were with their lives. Those self-assessments were stacked against ''objective indicators'' borrowed from researchers at U.C.L.A. They included state-by-state variances on quality-of-life gauges like climate, taxes, cost of living, commuting times, crime rates and schools.
 When the two sets were blended, the economists discovered that the subjective judgments closely tracked the objective ones. In other words, people knew what they were talking about when they said if they were happy or not. Americans who described themselves as satisfied tended to live in places where the quality of life was good by most standards -- where the sun shone a lot, the air was reasonably clear, housing didn't leave you busted, traffic wasn't too fierce and so on.
 ''We were actually surprised that the match was as strong as it was,'' Professor Wu said in a phone interview. ''The strength of the correlation is very, very high.''
 The state-by-state rankings were not a priority, he said. But they are what has inevitably drawn the most attention. In case you were wondering -- and you know you were -- the Top 10 states on the happiness scale are, in descending order, Louisiana, Hawaii, Florida, Tennessee, Arizona, Mississippi, Montana, South Carolina, Alabama and Maine.
 Louisiana? Uh, didn't it have that huge hurricane, what's her name, a few years back?
 Yeah, Katrina is a complication, the professors said. Some of their data predated the storm. But the hurricane is not all that defines Louisiana. Like nearly all the other states in the Top 10, it is warm. (Surprisingly, sunny California is way down in the ranks, No. 46.)
 It falls to a New Yorker to ask how it is, if this is such an unhappy place, that more people are living in the city than ever before: an estimated 8.4 million. ''That's a very sensible point,'' Professor Oswald said. Many people, he said, do indeed think of states like New York and California as ''marvelous places to live in.''
 ''The problem,'' he said, ''is that if too many individuals think that way, they move into those states, and the resulting congestion and house prices make it a nonfulfilling prophecy.''
 Not to be unkind, but some states that made the Top 10 are among the poorest in the country. Are people there truly happy, or are they wearing ''What, me worry?'' smiles.
 More important, might contentment be overrated? Seriously, isn't restlessness, even outright discontent, often a catalyst for creativity?
 We're from the Harry Lime school. If you've seen the film classic ''The Third Man,'' you will remember that character's admonition: ''In Italy for 30 years under the Borgias they had warfare, terror, murder and bloodshed, but they produced Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci and the Renaissance.
 ''In Switzerland they had brotherly love. They had 500 years of democracy and peace, and what did that produce? The cuckoo clock.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RANKINGS (76%); CRIME RATES (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (63%); COST OF LIVING (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (56%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



630 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: Through British Landlord's Boom and Bust, East Harlem Tenants Struggle

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Foreign investors were a major force in New York's real estate boom of the last decade, with families and companies from Dubai to Australia swallowing weekend apartments and Midtown office towers. In 2007, the roster of international investors came to include a British firm, Dawnay Day, whose executives had a splashy reputation for spending millions on fine art and yachts.
 It was then, after a meeting with a New York landlord at an art show in Miami, that the British firm plunked down $225 million for 47 rental buildings, most of them in East Harlem. 
 The plan, in a gentrifying neighborhood, was to repeat the success its executives once found in the transformation of the south London neighborhood of Brixton. Dawnay Day would ease out its mainly lower-income residents, rehabilitate the apartments and charge a new generation of younger, more affluent tenants substantially steeper rents. 
 The efforts, though, didn't get far before the recession spread across the globe and Dawnay Day went bust. Now, as part of one of the United Kingdom's largest real estate insolvencies of the recession, the firm's yachts are up for auction, and their expensive art has been stripped from the walls of its former London headquarters.
 And in the 47 buildings, anger, uncertainty and a degree of misery have set in. At tenant meetings, renters complain of gaping holes in their ceilings and walls that allow rats to freely roam. The properties face foreclosure, and it is very possible that the buildings may fall back into the hands of the landlord some tenants say neglected them long before they attracted a foreign buyer.
 ''They were a multinational corporation guided by greed,'' Juan Haro, director of the housing rights group Movement for Justice in El Barrio, who has worked with tenants in the buildings, said of Dawnay Day. ''They failed miserably. They crumbled financially and they were a victim of their own devices.''
 Saying the federal government has not adequately responded to the broader real estate crisis, a group of tenants are planning a demonstration for Tuesday at the Bank of New York Mellon, which holds the mortgage on the Dawnay Day properties.
 For the moment, the thousands of residents of the 1,100 apartments in East Harlem have been left partly to fend for themselves. Many of them have lived in the buildings for generations, and they are hardly unfamiliar with hardship and discord. Still, their current state of limbo -- days trying to get apartments repaired and night meetings with a court-appointed receiver -- has taken its toll.
 For Joaquin Rufiles, a barrel-chested butcher who shares a one-bedroom apartment in one of the East Harlem buildings with his wife, Josefina Toiralua, their two children and his wife's uncle, Dawnay Day's collapse means living with rats in their kitchen. On Nov. 4, his family presented their complaints to the receiver handling the bankruptcy. They said the problems were not fixed.
 ''We pay rent. It's not like we live for free,'' said Ms. Toiralua through a translator.
 The tale of this portfolio of Harlem buildings began in the 1980s, when Steven Kessner, the son of a Bronx taxi driver who studied economics at Dartmouth based on the encouragement of one of his father's passengers, passed up Harvard Business School to return to the city and work in real estate. Mr. Kessner said he started buying and repairing East Harlem walk-ups when most banks would not lend in the neighborhood.
 In what he described as 100-hour workweeks that required ''blood, sweat and tears,'' he repaired boilers, eliminated thousands of violations and kicked out drug dealers running the buildings. At the same time, he expanded his empire by buying properties in the East Village.
 While Mr. Kessner said that he worked hard to manage the buildings, and repaired many of their problems, The Village Voice identified him as one of the 10 worst landlords in New York City in 2006. By the time Mr. Kessner sold the buildings in March 2007, the 1,111 apartments still had 2,419 violations, according to the Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
 Mr. Kessner decided to sell the bulk of his portfolio in the fall of 2006. The real estate market in New York was peaking. All corners of Harlem were being transformed -- integrated and gentrified and alive with new commercial investments and enterprises.
 A world away, the real estate firm Dawnay Day had become something of an insatiable Goliath, buying up mainly commercial real estate in a half-dozen countries. Its purchases included well-known trophies like the Michelin-starred London restaurant the Wolseley and a hotel in the Cotswolds where Oliver Cromwell once stayed. British newspapers varied widely on their estimates of the company's value, though they roughly put it at several billion dollars.
 With company money, Dawnay Day executives also indulged their personal hobbies. Yachts were bought to entertain friends and relatives. Local British papers say they decorated their office with multimillion-dollar works of art including a Damien Hirst, and a Lucian Freud called ''Benefits Supervisor Sleeping,'' which was auctioned by Christies in May 2008 for $34 million.
 They then set their sights on what for them was an unconventional purchase, the buildings in East Harlem.
 The deal, which had been discussed for weeks, was completed during Art Basel, an annual art collectors' gathering where Dawnay executives agreed to meet Mr. Kessner. Mr. Kessner recalls chatting with the company's two head executives, Peter Klimt and Guy Naggar, about the final price and letting his son Michael stay and manage the buildings. 
 By March 2007, when Dawnay Day closed on the purchase, executives trumpeted the deal to British papers, saying that they could easily raise rents more than tenfold and then expand through the United States.
 The tenants, if unfamiliar with their new international landlord, learned quickly what the change would mean for them. Mr. Haro said that Dawnay Day quickly began pressuring longtime tenants to move out, asked all tenants for Social Security numbers and began charging for basic repairs. Diego Quinones, an organizer with Community Voices Heard who also is working with Dawnay Day tenants, said the landlords quickly grew ''more strategic'' in how they harassed tenants and tried to push them out. In October 2007, some tenants filed a lawsuit under consumer protection laws to challenge fees imposed over late rent, repairs and washing machines.
 Meanwhile, Andre and Matthew Mauro, who run a local real estate brokerage, said they started receiving three to four calls a week from renters in the Dawnay buildings eager to leave. Gabriella Pollonini left her $1,200-a-month one-bedroom when her lease expired in May 2009 after management did not respond to her complaints about three outbreaks of bedbugs and the lack of heat and hot water, she said.
 ''I had four blankets, and I was sleeping with my pajamas and my jacket,'' said Ms. Pollonini, 39, a researcher at the nearby Mount Sinai School of Medicine. ''I was going to the gym to get my shower.''
 However troubled the conditions in the Harlem buildings, the problems with the firm were apparently dire. According to British press reports and interviews with British executives familiar with the company's unraveling, Dawnay Day found itself overexposed as the credit markets started to tighten in early 2008. By the summer, Dawnay Day's loans and debts were being called in, and the company fell into receivership. Assets were quickly sold.
 Richard Stanley, a London-based former director of the real estate firm DTZ, which handled the sale of many of Dawnay Day's European properties, said the magnitude of Dawnay Day's fall made it one of the largest real estate insolvencies in 2008.
 Peter Bennett, director of the Swiss-based Blue Water Yachting, which has been trying to sell one of Dawnay Day's yachts for $6 million, said its executives were too optimistic. He had met some of them when they were chartering their yacht.
 ''They just thought the boom was going to keep going,'' he said.
 Dawnay Day's three top former executives, who are no longer associated with the Harlem buildings, did not respond to requests for interviews through New York and London real estate brokers who have worked with them in the past. Mr. Klimt, who is one of the two former heads of Dawnay Day, did not respond to phone and e-mail messages at his new London company, Klimt & Co.
 Back in Harlem, where Dawnay Day had hired Michael Kessner to manage the buildings for them, there was general confusion. Mr. Kessner said he stopped receiving guidance from Dawnay Day after the company folded and had little direction to go by.
 ''Their office basically just shut down,'' he said.
 In September, the properties officially fell into foreclosure. That month, Justice Charles E. Ramos of State Supreme Court in Manhattan appointed Harvey Fishbein as receiver to manage the properties through foreclosure. At this point, Mr. Fishbein has not been given any time frame for when the properties may be sold.
 And so the tenants spend their days meeting with the receiver, celebrating minor victories -- their lawsuit over Dawnay Day to remove fees from their rent bills -- and fearing the future.
 Mr. Kessner said he would bid on the foreclosed properties ''at the right price.''
 The city said it is monitoring conditions in the buildings. So far, officials said, the financial distress has not translated into wholesale physical distress.
 Meanwhile, tenants still carry some share of envy toward their London landlords. They talk sometimes about how they would have used the fortunes that Dawnay Day executives spent on yachts and art collections. As Mr. Rufiles cuddles his 4-year-old daughter and rats squeak faintly from his kitchen cabinet, he marvels at the habits of the rich.
 ''What I would do with money is buy clothes for my children,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joaquin Rufiles and Josefina Toiralua with their daughter, Stephanie Rufiles, 18 months, in their East Harlem building, one of the properties in limbo since the British real estate concern Dawnay Day became insolvent. There are holes in the walls and floors that let in rats. ''We pay rent. It's not like we live for free,'' Ms. Toiralua said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A31)
 Guy Naggar, left, and Peter Klimt, principal executives of Dawnay Day, which bought 47 Manhattan buildings and went broke. (A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (63%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



631 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Chief Executive of Burger Flipping

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
How do you get the leaders of some well-known American companies to leave their executive desks and take on entry-level jobs in their own corporations -- while television cameras are rolling? ''We asked them very nicely,'' said Stephen Lambert, the executive producer of ''Undercover Boss,'' a reality series that explores that very premise. 
On Monday CBS said ''Undercover Boss'' would have its premiere on Feb. 7 after the Super Bowl. CBS identified some of the participating executives as Joseph DePinto, president of 7-Eleven; Dave Rife, above, an owner of White Castle; and Coby G. Brooks, president of Hooters. They work clandestinely alongside their rank-and-file employees, looking for insights into their businesses while they get their hands dirty flipping burgers and emptying grease traps. If it wasn't hard convincing American executives to be part of the show, Mr. Lambert said it didn't take much more effort for these bosses to go incognito among their employees. ''We tell everybody that we're filming with that we're making a program about somebody trying out entry-level jobs in their business,'' Mr. Lambert said in a telephone interview. ''We just don't happen to mention that they're also the boss. So we're not lying -- we're just a little economical with the truth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY R. STARR/CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%)

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



632 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 636 words

PERSON: Howard W. Johnson 

HEADLINE: Howard W. Johnson, 87, M.I.T. President

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Howard W. Johnson, who as president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology brought a degree of calm and conciliation to the campus at the height of the Vietnam War protests, died Dec. 12 at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 87.
 He died after a long illness, his son Stephen said. 
 M.I.T., in Cambridge, Mass., became a focus of protest in the late 1960s because several of its laboratories were receiving millions of dollars for secret research under contracts with the Department of Defense. One laboratory worked on the development of long-range missile guidance systems. 
 In the winter of 1969-70, militant groups including Students for a Democratic Society and the Black Panthers staged a series of demonstrations on the campus, at one point occupying Mr. Johnson's office and leaving it in a shambles. In November 1969, police officers dispersed approximately 350 demonstrators who were blocking the entrance to one of the laboratories; the protesters offered little resistance. 
 ''He guided M.I.T. through its most turbulent chapter,'' the university's current president, Susan Hockfield, said of Mr. Johnson in a written statement. 
 An expert in personnel and management relations, Mr. Johnson brought his mediation skills and a sense of humor to that tense time. He chuckled at the nickname by which students referred to him, HoJo, and its obvious reference to the restaurant chain known for its ice cream. 
 But as Time magazine wrote in November 1969, ''Johnson's success was above all a triumph of face-to-face communication.''
 ''When he learned that militants were planning disruptions, he immediately began canvassing students and faculty -- in dormitories, at informal 'rap' sessions and on the street,'' the Time article continued. ''Patiently explaining his position, he gathered support for a plan that will gradually shift a large portion of M.I.T.'s research from military to social needs.''
 Acknowledging that the protests had some validity, Mr. Johnson instituted programs directed at urban problems like transportation, housing and community development. And in May 1970, M.I.T. divested itself of the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, where guidance systems for the Poseidon missile and the Apollo spacecraft were being developed. It retained its other military research facility, the Lincoln Laboratory in Lexington, Mass.
 ''This institute must constantly try to relate technology to man's purposes,'' Mr. Johnson said at the time, ''and that means basic research for defense as well as a larger concern for other human needs.''
 Howard Wesley Johnson was born in Chicago on July 2, 1922, one of four children of Albert and Laura Hansen Johnson. His father was an accountant.
 Mr. Johnson graduated from Central College in Chicago in 1943 with a degree in business. After serving in the Army in Europe during World War II, he received a master's degree in economics from the University of Chicago. He taught there from 1948 to 1955, then joined the M.I.T. faculty as an associate professor of management. In 1959 he became dean of the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T., and in 1966 he was appointed the university's 12th president. He was president until 1971, when he became chairman of the M.I.T. Corporation. 
 Besides his son Stephen, Mr. Johnson is survived by his wife of 59 years, the former Elizabeth Weed; another son, Bruce; his daughter, Laura Johnson; his brother, Richard; his sister, Evelyn Harvey; and three grandchildren.
 In his memoir, ''Holding the Center: Memoirs of a Life in Higher Education'' (1999), Mr. Johnson wrote of the tumult at M.I.T.
 ''Students have told me, and I agree with them, that they found the institute to be academically vibrant during that time despite the uproar,'' he wrote. ''Much that was positive emerged from the upheaval.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Howard W. Johnson (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE TAMES/THE NEW YORK TIMES, 1969) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ARMIES (78%); DEATHS (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); VIETNAM WAR (77%); CHILDREN (77%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (76%); SPACECRAFT (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); RESTAURANTS (65%); DIVESTITURES (60%)

COMPANY: CHARLES STARK DRAPER LABORATORY INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



633 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Paying With Plastic To Please the Accountants

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHILE attending a conference in San Francisco about 10 years ago, I was staying at a small hotel on Union Square and was too tired one night to find a restaurant. So I went to a Walgreens on the corner and bought some packaged rolls and a 12-ounce canned ham, which cost about $5 total, and had a ham sandwich and a Coke in my room.
 A month later, after I filed my expense account, the boss called me up, sounding a little alarmed. 
 ''You can't put a canned ham on your expense account,'' he said. ''It just looks stupid. Next time, please find a restaurant and have a proper dinner.''
 As expense account legends go, that's a sorry one, but the realm of corporate travel and entertainment expenses is rich in narrative and, like everything else, undergoing major changes.
 For one thing, as I reported here not long ago in a profile of a hard-nosed travel manager who wondered whether employees shouldn't be returning frequent-flier miles to the corporation, companies are cracking down hard on travel spending and accounting. They are also monitoring compliance with company policies more intensely. And there is a big push for better data retrieval, as travel managers are under pressure to justify every expense.
 To achieve this, many companies are investing in more sophisticated software to track and evaluate even the little expenses and are asking employees to use credit cards instead of cash whenever possible, even for small purchases.
 For some of us, incidentally, that is a benefit, because we tend to lose track of those incidental cash outlays on the road.
 Mary S. Schaeffer, who writes and lectures on the subject of accounts payable, is one. 
 ''When I'm traveling, I always think I'm going to write all the little expenses down. You know, you tip the bellhop $2, you tip somebody else $3, and it all adds up. But then you forget to report it,'' said Ms. Schaeffer, the author of ''Travel and Entertainment: Best Practices'' (Wiley, 2007). Her book is a guide to corporate compliance with Internal Revenue Service travel requirements and to better ways for companies to compile, manage, store and retrieve data from expense accounts.
 The I.R.S. is engaged in an initiative to audit tax returns of about 6,000 companies, partly to look at executive fringe benefits, including travel-expense procedures. This takes place as companies are already struggling to get a better handle on overall travel and entertainment management, especially as business travel picks up in a still shaky economic environment.
 One of the biggest drives will be in managing the payment of so-called ancillary fees, mostly fees paid to airlines that don't often show up on the initial airline fare receipt. According to the Transportation Department, domestic airlines reaped $2 billion in such fees in the third quarter, including $740 million in charges for checked bags (double the amount in the quarter a year earlier) and $614 million (up 41 percent) in penalty fees for changed flight plans as more business travelers flew on the cheapest discount tickets with the most restrictions.
 Given the growing complications of simply evaluating an airplane bill, nearly three-quarters of more than 300 companies informally surveyed by the Association of Corporate Travel Executives recently said that collecting and managing spending data was their top challenge in business travel.
 ''Corporations are going after every potential saving very aggressively and looking for more sophisticated ways of keeping track of expense accounting,'' said Jack Riepe, the group's spokesman.
 Thus the new encouragement to use debit and credit cards more widely, even for small purchases. 
 ''Those $4 and $5 purchases can really add up,'' Ms. Schaeffer said. ''And if you're like me when you travel, any time you pay cash, it's basically gone money.''
 Most companies require receipts for individual travel expenses exceeding $25, though the I.R.S. benchmark is $75. Ms. Schaeffer says you would be surprised at the number of expense-account entries that are suspiciously just under the limit.
 ''Some companies now have computer programs than can run a dump of all the charges right under the receipt-requirement level,'' she said. ''So if a name comes up showing, say, 100 meals over the last year for $24.95 each, they know something's up. And they're looking harder than ever at that.''
 The trend next year in travel spending is ''zero tolerance for policy abuse,'' she said. With the I.R.S. looking harder at corporate travel spending, and with companies under pressure to cut costs in general and apply policies evenly to all employees, ''some companies will fire someone even for a $25 abuse,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); AIR FARES (87%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (72%); BEST PRACTICES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (66%); WRITERS (63%); AIRLINES (61%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



634 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: U. of Dayton Purchases Former Base Of NCR

BYLINE: By BOB DRIEHAUS

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
The University of Dayton has bought the former world headquarters of the NCR Corporation for $18 million, in an effort to expand its campus and begin to fill the void left by Dayton's loss of its sole Fortune 500 company. 
 NCR, which manufactures cash registers, ATMs and airline ticket kiosks, announced in June that it was moving its headquarters to Duluth, Ga., from Dayton, where the company was founded 125 years ago, taking with it more than 1,000 jobs. 
 The move was one of several recent economic blows to the region, which also endured the closing a year ago of a General Motors assembly plant in nearby Moraine and the loss of its 2,400 jobs.
 Dayton follows several other universities that have capitalized on the shifting business landscape caused by the recession, including the University of Michigan's acquisition of Pfizer's abandoned complex adjacent to campus and Yale University's acquisition of a former Bayer property in West Haven, Conn.
 Lawrence A. Molnar, associate director of the Institute for Research on Labor, Employment and the Economy at the University of Michigan, said property transfers like Dayton's provided a relatively inexpensive avenue for universities to grow and promote economic diversity for the surrounding community.
 ''This particular acquisition means maybe the economy is beginning to move toward knowledge-based, skilled labor rather than the manufacturing, mass production economy,'' Mr. Molnar said.
 The acquisition of the 115-acre NCR complex expands the university's campus by almost half, to 373 acres, including a 455,000-square-foot building and a 1,600-space parking lot.
 The main building will house the university's research institute, a new alumni center, graduate school classrooms and executive development programs and conferences. 
 NCR's move to Duluth cost the city of Dayton $2.6 million in earnings taxes and cost local governments and school districts $960,000 in property taxes, according to Tom Biedenharn, a city spokesman. 
 Daniel J. Curran, university president, said he hoped the acquisition would help the city, both in terms of economic development and psychologically.
 ''What could have been a symbol of decline becomes a symbol of forward thinking and revitalization,'' Mr. Curran said. 
 The university hopes to stimulate a new generation of small businesses through the research institute's expanded business incubator, whose entrepreneurs will work alongside university researchers trying to move Dayton away from its historic dependency on manufacturing jobs. 
 The institute has grown by 35 employees in the last year to conduct nearly $100 million annually in research, including a new $49.5 million contract to develop advanced jet fuels and combustion technologies for the Air Force. Dayton works closely with nearby Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); JET FUEL (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); AIR FORCES (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (50%)

COMPANY: NCR CORP (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); PFIZER INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: NCR (NYSE) (95%); GM (NYSE) (57%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (95%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



635 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: Roundabout Feels Pinch After Period Of Growth

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Roundabout Theater Company, the biggest not-for-profit player on Broadway, began the fall with high aspirations, hoping that its revival of the musical ''Bye Bye Birdie'' would be a hit running well into 2010 at its newest Broadway house. Instead ''Birdie'' drew harsh reviews and is making a quick exit, in January, while Roundabout is expecting to end the fiscal year with its first budget deficit since 1992.
 Roundabout's expansion this year into operating a third Broadway house, Henry Miller's Theater -- the company also runs an Off Broadway theater and black box space -- has puzzled other producers for months. They say Roundabout is a case study of an arts institution overextending itself financially -- all the more so after a powerful board member offered the company a new theater -- as well as creatively, citing the critical drubbings for recent shows like ''Hedda Gabler,'' ''The Philanthropist,'' ''Birdie'' and ''After Miss Julie.'' 
 ''When you run five theaters, you have to fill them with shows, which means you don't always have time to wait for the right director or make sure the rehearsals and artistic work are going right,'' said Emanuel Azenberg, a longtime Broadway producer whose credits this season include the revivals of ''Ragtime'' and the now-shuttered ''Brighton Beach Memoirs.'' ''A lot of us wonder if Roundabout has bitten off more than it can chew, especially in an economic downturn.''
 Leaders of Roundabout take a sharply different view: that the company is actually a model for being ambitious and taking risks in spite of a recession, and that Roundabout has shown over time that the greater its challenges -- bankruptcy in the 1970s, the loss of theater spaces over time -- the harder people there push. ''There's so much incredible theatrical talent in New York that need more venues, and I'm proud that Roundabout is providing more venues and not shying away from financial challenge,'' said Todd Haimes, Roundabout's artistic director since 1990 and its chief business officer for seven years before that. ''This isn't about trying to build a theater empire for us. It's about being a robust home for artists.''
 Most not-for-profit theaters in New York and nationally have been tightening belts since the start of the 2008-9 season, when private donations and single-ticket sales for many began to decline in the face of the recession. Roundabout has seen falloffs in both revenue categories, and so far its list of 43,000 subscribers is down at least 5 percent from the last fiscal year. The company laid off employees, and Mr. Haimes and other top executives took pay cuts this year. (Mr. Haimes is still believed to have one of the largest compensation packages in the not-for-profit theater world: more than $500,000 for 2007, the most recent year for which data is available.) 
 The company's annual operating budget is $52 million, and Mr. Haimes said that at the end of its fiscal year, on Aug. 31, he expected ''either a small deficit or a larger deficit.'' The prediction is so general largely because it depends on how well coming shows like ''Sondheim on Sondheim'' do and on the future of the company's $8.5 million sponsorship agreement for its American Airlines Theater, which is up for renewal early next year. 
 Roundabout had seemed relatively well positioned in the recession. The 44-year-old company, which started in a supermarket basement, has a history of careful growth. In the last decade it raised millions of dollars to restore and establish new homes on Broadway at the American Airlines Theater and Studio 54, while also opening the Laura Pels Theater and a black box just off Broadway on West 46th Street.
 ''Roundabout and Todd moved from being an Off Broadway theater company to a Broadway producer brilliantly,'' said Bernard Gersten, executive producer of Lincoln Center Theater, another major New York not-for-profit theater organization.
 Then came the Henry Miller's Theater deal. In its glory days the theater, across from Town Hall on West 43rd Street, housed the Broadway premiere of Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town'' in 1938, but it was run-down and largely abandoned when Roundabout decided it had the perfect seedy feel for its 1998 revival of ''Cabaret,'' which became a huge hit. (The show later moved into Studio 54.)
 The Durst Organization, the real estate firm, eventually rebuilt the theater as part of construction for the new Bank of America tower at 1 Bryant Park. Douglas Durst, chairman of the organization and a Roundabout board member, tried to attract commercial interests to the new theater; finding no takers, he went to Mr. Haimes and the board with an offer.
 The deal ''kind of fell in our laps, offered to us at a below-market rate by Douglas Durst and Bank of America, and it was basically take it or leave it,'' said Mr. Haimes, who has an M.B.A. from Yale. He said he has ''a sort of Depression mentality'' that makes real estate a continuing preoccupation. The offer was ''an opportunity that we couldn't not take,'' he said, ''and the board felt it was a wonderful opportunity to have an alternative source of income.''
 ''That was before the recession,'' he said, noting that the talks went on for a few years before ''Birdie'' opened. ''Now would we have taken that same opportunity in the depths of whole world falling apart in 2008? Who knows. Maybe we would have or maybe we wouldn't have.''
 Mr. Durst said in an interview that he did not foist the Henry Miller's Theater on Roundabout, adding that he recused himself from board discussions about the theater after presenting the business proposition. (No one would disclose terms of the deal.) ''For nearly 100 years my family's business has expanded in downturns with great success,'' Mr. Durst said. ''A downturn is the best time to expand.''
 Some of Mr. Haimes's colleagues at other not-for-profit theaters take a more circumspect view.
 ''Obviously what Todd and Roundabout are doing is an enormous undertaking by adding the Henry Miller's Theater, and I think it's probably too early to tell how it's going to work out for them,'' said Lynne Meadow, artistic director of Manhattan Theater Club, another major New York not-for-profit theater. ''I don't envy him. For anyone on Broadway or Off Broadway, doing just one good show is difficult.''
 Mr. Gersten, of Lincoln Center Theater, added: ''Can you be too busy to do work well? Yes, I suspect you can. Can you overwork yourself? Yes, you can, and I think Todd works too hard. But the fact is, if you're responsible for a theater, and the real estate is yours, you have to keep making shows for your theaters.''
 Or booking shows. With the closing of ''Birdie'' on Jan. 24, Roundabout is bringing in the new production ''All About Me,'' starring Dame Edna Everage and Michael Feinstein, which starts previews in Henry Miller's Theater in February. In doing so, Roundabout has become a Broadway theater owner not unlike the Shubert Organization, making deals with commercial producers to book shows and earn revenue.
 But the question remains whether a not-for-profit company -- which charges Broadway-style prices but operates under different rules than commercial theater producers, including lower minimum salaries for actors and reduced costs for direct-market mailings -- should be competing for shows against commercial theater owners. Philip J. Smith, chairman of the Shubert Organization, noted that ''All About Me'' was originally set to go into a Shubert theater, the Golden, before the producers opted for a deal with Mr. Haimes.
 ''I have no hard feelings about 'All About Me,' but suddenly Todd and Roundabout are acting like for-profit theater owners rather than a not-for-profit institution,'' Mr. Smith said. ''In the months ahead people will look at the revenues that Roundabout is making at Henry Miller's Theater and decide, I think, where Roundabout stands as a not-for-profit.''
 Mr. Haimes sees no conflict with Roundabout's not-for-profit mission. He said he was dedicated to creating a climate for artists to produce good work. He also rejected any link between being preoccupied with Roundabout's expansion and business needs and its recent track record of critically panned shows. He noted that, unlike many artistic directors, he does not direct, nor does he believe he is ''equipped or responsible for interfering in the rehearsal and creative process.''
 ''I believe my role is to pick the shows, help find the artists and provide the best space possible to do the best work possible,'' he said. ''And I think, over the long run, expanding will help that and booking shows into Henry Miller's Theater will help that. I have to say quite bluntly I'm proud of the fact that any money made in that theater will go back to our not-for-profit mission.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Todd Haimes (pg.C1)
Nolan Gerard Funk, center, in the Roundabout Theater Company's revival of ''Bye Bye Birdie,'' which is closing next month.
 Sienna Miller and Jonny Lee Miller in ''After Miss Julie,'' a Roundabout production. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); CHARITIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); TICKET SALES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



636 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Global Trade Arbitrator Agrees China Illegally Limits American Music, Films and Books

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
Arbitrators at the World Trade Organization on Monday upheld a ruling that China had illegally restricted imports of American music, films and books. And in a new case, Washington accused Beijing of manipulating the prices for important ingredients in steel and aluminum production. 
 Monday's ruling by the organization's appellate body knocked down China's objections to a decision in August against Beijing's policy of forcing American media producers to route their business through state-owned companies.
 If China fails over the next year to bring its practices in line with international trade law, the United States can ask the W.T.O. to authorize commercial sanctions against Chinese goods.
 Western exporters have complained that China's import restrictions limit the amount of foreign products entering the country while other unfair policies increase sales of Chinese goods abroad.
 The media dispute with China focused on complaints raised by the trade associations representing record labels like EMI and Sony Music Entertainment; publishers including McGraw Hill and Simon & Schuster; and, to a lesser extent, the major Hollywood studios Warner Brothers, Disney, Paramount, Universal and 20th Century Fox.
 The organization made no finding that implied it was illegal for Beijing to review foreign goods for objectionable content. But it said China could not limit the distribution of American goods to Chinese state-owned companies, and said the Asian country's restrictions were not ''necessary'' to protect public morals.
 The new inquiry initiated Monday by the W.T.O., at the request of the United States, Mexico and the 27-nation European Union, focuses on the other half of the equation by examining China's treatment of domestic and foreign manufacturers with regards to its raw materials.
 Washington and Brussels claim that China unfairly favors domestic industry by setting export quotas on materials like coke, bauxite, magnesium and silicon metal. Export quotas are contentious under trade rules because they can cause a glut on the domestic market, driving down prices for local producers, while leading to scarcity and higher prices for competitors abroad.
 Beijing, however, claims that the curbs are an effort to protect the environment, and says they comply with the organization's trade rules. For its part, China is challenging American trade rules on several issues, like poultry, and asked the W.T.O. on Monday for a new investigation into American import taxes on Chinese tires.
 The global trade referee will probably rule in all these disputes over the next year.
 Analysts and observers say they believe that these Sino-American trade fights are only the beginning and that the Obama administration will most likely file more cases against China.
 Last week, the two countries settled a dispute initiated by the Bush administration last December over allegations that China provided subsidies to exporters of Chinese merchandise. Beijing agreed out of court to eliminate the subsidies, according to the office of the United States trade representative, which will enhance the prospects of American exporters of household appliances, textiles, chemicals, medicines and food products.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POULTRY (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%)

COMPANY: SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (69%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (68%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (69%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (69%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (68%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); BELGIUM (68%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



637 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Assessing the Outcome of the Climate Talks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''5 Nations Forge Pact on Climate; Goals Go Unmet'' (front page, Dec. 19):
 Pessimism permeates the climate talk summaries coming out of Copenhagen -- unjustly. Most world leaders are unprepared for real cooperation. Many nations still play ''you first,'' while others seek economic advantage in pending catastrophe. Our own Senate dithers. The know nothings crow in triumph. 
 In human affairs politics will always trump science. Nothing significant will be done until conditions become much worse. 
 Yet a nonbinding agreement on emissions may prove surprisingly productive. If climate temperatures continue to rise, nations will see for themselves that more must be done, and may compete with one another to reduce emissions, going beyond what would have been mutually acceptable in 2009. The know nothings will evaporate. Genuine cooperation will grow from grim necessity.
 Mike Foster Lakewood, Colo., Dec. 20, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Copenhagen, and Beyond'' (editorial, Dec. 21):
 You claim that the results of the United Nations climate conference in Copenhagen ''are not trivial.'' I was in Copenhagen, and I can assure your readers that the results were indeed trivial.
 For two years, this conference was considered the deadline for a legally binding, multilateral climate change mitigation treaty, but the agreement reached in Copenhagen was nonbinding, and was further watered down by the international community's decision to merely ''take note'' of its existence, rather than adopt it.
 In fact, the final agreement is remarkably similar to that reached at the United Nations-sponsored climate conference two years ago in Bali.
 Yet whereas you say that President Obama ''deserves much of the credit'' for Copenhagen, your editorial page didn't give President George W. Bush any credit for Bali. Then again, Mr. Bush was classy enough not to try to spin a meaningless agreement into a diplomatic breakthrough, as Mr. Obama is doing.
 William Yeatman Washington, Dec. 21, 2009
 The writer is an energy policy analyst with the Competitive Enterprise Institute.
 To the Editor:
 One of the more ominous outcomes of the United Nations climate talks in Copenhagen is further evidence that the president whom many of us rallied around for ''change we can believe in'' is truly nothing more than a more articulate spokesman for business as usual.
 There were real leaders at the conference, including Mohamed Nasheed, president of the Maldives, an island nation sure to be swallowed up by rising sea level. He is facing the imminent death or displacement of the citizens of his country, increasing the gravity of his statement that ''to assume that climate change has anything to do with money is in my mind the height of arrogance.''
 The failure to reach any meaningful agreement in Copenhagen comes at a time when most Americans are keenly feeling the destructive aspects of business as usual. Maybe this will help to make us more empathetic to the plight of the developing countries that are doomed to suffer the worst consequences of climate change.
 Perhaps we might even be motivated to think of ourselves as global citizens whose real interest lies in joining with others to save a planet in peril.
 Barbara Stebbins Berkeley, Calif., Dec. 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EMISSIONS (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); WRITERS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MALDIVES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



638 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Name Chief of Cybersecurity

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
Nearly seven months after highlighting the vulnerability of banking, energy and communications systems to Internet attacks, the White House on Tuesday is expected to name a technology industry veteran to coordinate competing efforts to improve the nation's cybersecurity in both military and civilian life.
 The decision to appoint Howard A. Schmidt, an industry executive with government experience who served as a cybersecurity adviser in the Bush administration and who also has a military and law enforcement background, is seen as a compromise between factions. Government officials and industry executives say there has been a behind-the-scenes dispute over whether strict new regulations are necessary to protect the network that increasingly weaves together the vast majority of the world's computers. 
 Mr. Schmidt will report to the National Security Council -- not both to the council and to the National Economic Council, as previously planned, an administration official said on Monday. Mr. Schmidt will also ''have regular access to the president,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he had not been authorized to talk publicly about the appointment. 
 Cybersecurity has taken on new urgency this year in the face of a growing range of cyberattacks and reports of vulnerabilities in business and military computing systems. Indeed, at the May 29 announcement of his administration's decision to create the position of cybersecurity coordinator, Mr. Obama described how during his presidential campaign computer intruders had ''gained access to e-mails and a range of campaign files, from policy position papers to travel plans.''
 ''It was,'' he said, ''a powerful reminder: in this information age, one of your greatest strengths -- in our case, our ability to communicate to a wide range of supporters through the Internet -- could also be one of your greatest vulnerabilities.''
 After reviewing the nation's cybersecurity preparedness, the White House said it would create the position of cybersecurity coordinator to harmonize the nation's various efforts to ''deter, prevent, detect and defend'' against cyberattacks. 
 The administration's decision to appoint Mr. Schmidt was slowed by a tug of war among political, military, intelligence and business interests, said people with direct knowledge of the selection process. Industry officials, for example, have expressed concern that new regulations would dampen innovation. 
 In recent months the administration has been criticized by lawmakers and others for not moving more quickly to fill the position. Experts on the issue had questioned how effective a cybercoordinator could be if forced to report to two governmental councils without direct access to the president. 
 ''I've come away with a strong sense that Vivek Kundra, chief information officer, and Aneesh Chopra, the chief technology officer, and participants at the N.S.C. are aligned on this effort,'' said Vinton Cerf, a co-author of the original Internet standards who has been consulted by the administration in choosing a ''cyberczar.'' 
 The White House official also said that criticisms that the administration had been frozen on cybersecurity policies while waiting for the appointment of a cybersecurity chief were inaccurate, citing a range of initiatives now under way at various agencies to improve cybersecurity. In November the White House met with a Russian delegation of cybersecurity officials in an effort to build cooperation on international law enforcement issues.
 One significant difference in the Obama administration's approach to cybersecurity and that of the previous administration has been the degree of secrecy about strategy and policy issues. In the Bush administration, cybersecurity decisions were made in a highly classified fashion. What remains unclear, however, is how the new administration will balance cybersecurity decisions between military and civilian organizations.
 In May the administration's cybersecurity review was not specific about transforming the administration's goals into practical realities. At the time Mr. Obama did not explain how he planned to go about resolving the running turf wars among the Pentagon, the National Security Agency, the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies over the conduct of defensive and offensive cyberoperations.
 Mr. Schmidt is the chief executive officer of the Information Security Forum, a nonprofit computer security trade association based in London. He has served as chief information security officer at eBay and chief security officer at Microsoft. In the Bush administration, he was the vice chairman of the president's Critical Infrastructure Protection Board and a special adviser for cyberspace security. 
 He also served in the Air Force and the Army in computer security roles and led a computer forensics team for the Federal Bureau of Investigation at the National Drug Intelligence Center.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama last week with Howard A. Schmidt, who is expected to be named on Tuesday to lead efforts to improve security in the nation's business and military computing systems.(WHITE HOUSE PHOTO BY LAWRENCE JACKSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); VIVEK KUNDRA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



639 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Council Overrides Veto, Blocking Plan for Armory Mall

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
The City Council dealt a final blow on Monday to a developer's plans to build a mall inside the Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx, a significant defeat for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg on a key project. 
 The Council voted 48 to 1, with one abstention, to override Mr. Bloomberg's veto of its decision last week to defeat the plan, signaling the resentment the mayor faces on the eve of his third term.
 Related Companies, the developer picked for the project, would have received more than $50 million in tax credits and exemptions for the plan. The company says the $310 million project would have created 1,000 construction jobs and 1,200 permanent ones in the Bronx, where the unemployment rate is the highest in the city. Mayor Bloomberg had backed the plan as a much-needed investment to spur economic development in the area. 
 But the City Council and local advocates objected to the mall, mainly because Related refused to require all prospective employers at the site to pay at least $10 an hour. Many of the jobs created would have paid at or around the minimum wage, $7.25 an hour. 
 A coalition of religious leaders, community advocates and labor groups pushed hard against Related's plans, framing the mall as a boon for a well-connected development company that would be built at taxpayers' expense. The group, known as the Kingsbridge Armory Redevelopment Alliance, won the support of Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. and many other local officials. 
 After the vote last week, leaders of the coalition said they hoped the armory would be developed to offer more space for cultural, educational and recreational activities. 
 But Mayor Bloomberg warned Monday that the soaring brick castle, which has been vacant for more than a decade, may now sit empty for many more years.
 ''I just think it's so disappointing for so many people who want jobs,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''It's a great tragedy, but we have to move on.''
 The Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, said that she was disappointed the two sides could not reach a compromise. The armory, she said, was ''the only economic development project in the four years of the mayor and I working together where we haven't been able to come to an agreement.'' 
 The armory vote highlighted the political difficulties Mr. Bloomberg is likely to face after narrowly winning a third term last month. To the applause of his colleagues in the Council chambers, Councilman G. Oliver Koppell of the Bronx said that although he regretted that the armory would stay vacant, ''there is only one administration and one mayor to blame.''
 Councilwoman Helen Sears of Queens, who lost her seat in last month's vote, cast the lone vote in support of the mayor. She also cast the only vote in support of the project last week. 
 Council members said that in addition to the wage issue, they also objected to Related's traffic and parking plans for the area, though those issues played a minor role through weeks of negotiations. 
 The armory, a federal, state and city landmark, was built by the city between 1912 and 1917 and was used to store arms and ammunition and to train troops. Since then, its many lives have included a shelter for homeless women and a concert space.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (91%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); VETO (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TAX LAW (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); RELIGION (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



640 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4833 words

HEADLINE: Work Zones, Danger Zones

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE; Matthew M. Orr contributed reporting.

 BODY:
By the time Bryan Lee headed to work along Highway 51 in Texas on Sept. 15, 2005, the road-building industry and its government overseers were painfully aware of a deadly, though easily corrected, construction hazard: pavement-edge drop-offs.
 Accidents involving dangerous drop-offs kill about 160 people and injure 11,000 each year. Numerous studies have shown that the steeper the drop-off, the greater the danger. 
 In Texas in 2002, seven people were killed when a car slipped off a sharp edge of roadway and onto the shoulder, causing the driver to overcorrect into the path of a minivan. Four years before, six people died in a succession of accidents in another Texas work zone, where contractors had failed to smooth out the edge of a newly paved lane. 
 Yet when the contractors repaving Highway 51 west of Fort Worth discovered that they lacked sufficient equipment, they decided to pave only part of the roadway and finish the rest days later, leaving a sharp drop-off that ran for miles within the travel lane. A state inspector warned that it was dangerous, but no one -- not his superiors, not the contractor -- listened. 
 Two days after that warning, Mr. Lee, a 26-year-old oil field worker with a wife and two young sons, rounded a curve in the early-morning darkness, and the wheels of his Suzuki motorcycle slid off the asphalt edge. He tumbled from the bike and was run over by a pickup truck. 
 The deadly accident was one of thousands in highway work zones across the country that have killed at least 4,700 people -- more than two a day -- and injured 200,000 in the last five years alone. Ubiquitous annoyances of on-the-go American life, work zones are sometimes death traps, too.
 Behind this human toll is a litany of mundane hazards: concrete barriers in the wrong position, obsolete lane markings left in place, warning signs never deployed.
 Yet there are virtually no laws or regulations mandating safety measures in work zones. There are standards, but they are loosely enforced and differ from state to state. As a result, there are few penalties levied against contractors when, because of ignorance, carelessness or a desire to save money, guidelines are violated. Problem contractors often just keep on getting hired, and dangerous practices remain uncorrected, sometimes for years.
 Ultimately, the hazards persist through a kind of collective indifference, a presumption that, given the crush of traffic and the vagaries of driver behavior, accidents happen.
 But interviews and internal government documents, along with a review of more than 100 legal cases involving work zone crashes around the country, illuminate a more complex calculus of blame -- one that often encompasses the actions of the construction industry and its regulators as well. 
 ''A lot of work-zone crashes are entirely preventable,'' said David Holstein, Ohio's chief traffic engineer. ''It's not explainable by just driver error or inattention. We can intervene to keep them from happening.'' 
 After transportation officials in Ohio created a system to monitor work-zone crashes in real time, they were startled to discover that the presence of construction caused accident rates to jump as much as 70 percent, Mr. Holstein said. 
 ''We were seeing that crashes were happening day after day after day, and nothing was being done about it,'' he said. ''Sometimes there were hundreds of crashes over the life of a project.''
 Now the stakes are increasing, as $27 billion from President Obama's economic stimulus package is prompting a nationwide boom in highway construction. Federal transportation officials are concerned that work-zone fatalities, after declining in recent years along with traffic deaths in general, could rise again.
 ''The number of people killed as a result of crashes in work zones remains significant,'' the Federal Highway Administration says on its Web site. ''Safety and mobility impacts from work zones will likely be magnified with the infusion of a large number of new projects.''
 Transportation officials are responding pretty much as they always have: by focusing primarily on drivers. States have raised fines for speeding in work zones, cracked down on drunken or distracted drivers and stiffened penalties for killing or injuring highway workers, even though roughly 85 percent of those killed in work zones are motorists.
 In an interview, the federal highway administrator, Victor M. Mendez, endorsed that emphasis. Distracted or impaired driving and speeding, he said, are the major known factors in work-zone accidents. For its part, the road-building industry insists that it is doing everything possible to prevent crashes.
 ''Any contractor would think it's morally wrong to put a worker or motorist in a dangerous situation,'' said Brad Sant, vice president for safety and education at the American Road & Transportation Builders Association. 
 Yet while federal regulators carefully track the ways motorists cause accidents, they do not make the same attempt to determine when contractors and state highway planners are at fault, and as a result, work-zone crashes are often under-reported or inaccurately reported. That task is left mostly to the imperfect forum of civil courts, where cases are often settled in secret and where important revelations about unsafe construction practices remain unseen and unheeded. 
 ''Somebody has to be held accountable, and right now that's not happening,'' said John S. Hassell Jr., a former federal highway administrator. ''The system doesn't provide a lot of consequences for those who could change the situation.''
 Jesse Sepeda knows the system well. He is a safety director for a major highway contractor in Texas. He also lost his 18-year-old son, Anthony, in a work-zone crash last year. 
 There were no warning signs or barricades, but a utility contractor digging a trench had parked a backhoe less than two feet from the travel lane on Wells Branch Parkway in Pflugerville, where the speed limit is 50 miles an hour. Construction industry standards say unused equipment should be at least 30 feet from the roadway. 
 Anthony's motorcycle drifted too close and hit the backhoe. After the accident, the backhoe was moved and barricades went up. But the police found fault only with the victim, concluding that he had probably been driving too fast. 
 ''I'm in this business, and I can tell you that these things happen all the time and there is nothing to hold a contractor accountable,'' his father said. ''In most cases you can't do anything except go to court, and meanwhile the contractor just goes on doing his work and killing people.'' 
 A Roadblock With No Signs
 Two months ago, officials in Florida awarded a bridge-repair contract, financed with $744,000 in federal stimulus money, to Zep Construction of Fort Myers. Zep has a long history of working on Florida highways -- a history that includes a case study of work-zone safety done wrong. 
 Repairing a bridge on Interstate 75 in Sarasota two years ago, Zep had decided to employ what is known as a ''rolling roadblock.'' In a properly run rolling roadblock, police cruisers, lights flashing, position themselves side by side across the highway, briefly slowing traffic to about 20 miles an hour while workers and equipment are shifted around in the construction zone.
 But as the roadblock took shape on I-75 shortly after midnight on Oct. 1, 2007, traffic did not simply slow down. It came to a complete halt in a blind spot on an overpass where the speed limit was 70 miles an hour. 
 Some drivers slammed on their brakes to keep from crashing. At the back of the line were James Brashear and his 11-year-old son, Tyler. The boy remembers the last thing he said to his father, as they waited for the backup to clear: ''What's going on?'' Then the car was awash in the headlights of an 18-wheel tractor trailer roaring over the hill behind them. 
 The big rig knocked cars aside like bowling pins before jackknifing 100 yards down the highway. Inside his crushed Acura, Mr. Brashear, 42, was dead, his body wedged against his son's lap. Tyler, his face bloody, pleaded with a stranger for help.
 ''I asked him if he could get me out of the car,'' recalled Tyler, now 13. ''He took me out, and then the fireman came over. They took off my shirt to make sure I was fine, and then they put me in the helicopter.''
 Nearby, another motorist, Manuel Ramirez, was dead in his demolished car. At least 10 people were hurt. 
 Not long afterward, the lone off-duty state trooper hired by Zep to work the roadblock, Richard Moore, walked to the top of the overpass. Looking down the other side, he realized there were no signs warning approaching drivers of the roadblock ahead. ''I was shocked,'' he later testified. 
 Florida's Transportation Department has detailed procedures for rolling roadblocks. Zep and its subcontractors had followed virtually none of them, records show, and a state consultant inspecting the project had apparently never noticed. 
 Electronic warning signs had not been placed at least a half-mile ahead; while two were available, they were on the wrong side of the overpass. Instead of having a police cruiser out front in all three lanes, Zep had hired just one, driven by Trooper Moore. There were no flaggers at a nearby on-ramp and no car in the rear to monitor traffic.
 Responsibility for the roadblock had fallen to Anthony Kelly, 46, a laborer appointed by Zep as a traffic control supervisor for the project. Mr. Kelly, who never graduated from high school, had taken a three-day course to qualify for the job. His driving record, by his own account, included ''23 or 24'' charges of driving with a suspended license. 
 In an interview, Mr. Kelly said he thought Trooper Moore was responsible for overseeing the roadblock. ''That's why I hired Richard Moore, because he has authority over things on the highway,'' he said.
 But Trooper Moore, testifying in a suit brought by Tyler Brashear's mother, said he simply did what Mr. Kelly had asked him to do.
 ''It's my understanding that Tony has all these D.O.T. certifications,'' he said. Police officers, he added, ''don't know where signage is supposed to be posted or how far from a construction zone.''
 In its accident report, the Florida Highway Patrol zeroed in on the absence of warning signs on the approach. A sergeant told a local newspaper that the highway patrol decided not to pursue criminal charges against the truck driver, Pablo Merlos, because ''a normal prudent person would have difficulty anticipating traffic stopped at the other side of an overpass.''
 Mr. Merlos, 33, who was delivering equipment to Alabama, testified that he had crested the overpass with his cruise control at about the speed limit. ''That's when I saw that the traffic had stopped,'' he said. ''Since there weren't any signs on the interstate, I didn't know what was happening.''
 Nevertheless, authorities concluded that Mr. Merlos should have been able to stop in time because another tractor-trailer, traveling roughly parallel, was able to. He was ticketed for careless driving and had his license revoked after a traffic court hearing in which he defended himself. 
 Without linking the accident and the botched roadblock, the State Transportation Department cited Zep and issued a warning to Mr. Kelly, for conducting the roadblock without prior authorization and for failing to follow state procedures. 
 In response to the state's citation, Zep's owner, Jovan Zepcevski, called the decision ''absurd,'' pointing out that the state's inspection consultant had been on site at the time and never objected. Mr. Zepcevski did not respond to messages left by The New York Times, and his lawyers declined to comment. 
 A State Transportation Department spokesman, Dick Kane, declined to discuss the agency's handling of the project, citing the Brashears' lawsuit against Zep. The insurance company for Mr. Merlos's employer paid $500,000 each to the two victims' families.
 Mitchel Chusid, the lawyer for Tyler's mother, said he believed that the financial incentives for contractors to work quickly, to earn a bonus or to move on to the next project undermined safety.
 ''The Obama administration is dumping more money into highway construction, but safety is being treated like a secondary issue,'' he said. 
 The I-75 project ended in January 2008. When the state graded Zep's performance, it gave the company 98 points out of 110 -- roughly an A-.
 Deferring Safety to States
 When it comes to dictating safety practices on the projects it finances, the Federal Highway Administration generally defers to the states. But last year, as part of a revision to its highway safety standards, it made a rare foray into work-zone regulation, proposing stricter rules for, among other things, signaling procedures for flaggers and the use of electronic warning signs. 
 In recent years, the states had largely succeeded in fending off efforts to strengthen the few federal rules that do exist. Now, a group of states pushed back again, hard. Officials in Arizona sent a letter accusing highway officials of micromanaging safety ''from their positions in distant Washington'' with standards that would impose ''financial hardship or unneeded litigation.'' 
 The letter's author was Victor Mendez, then Arizona's transportation director and the president of Aashto, the state transportation officials' lobbying group. In July, Mr. Obama appointed him the federal highway administrator. (When the agency acted on the proposed revisions just last week, it amended some to reflect concerns expressed in Mr. Mendez's letter.) 
 The federal government's hands-off approach to work-zone safety took hold in the 1970s, after a brief period in which Washington moved aggressively to enhance traffic safety by improving automobile technology and highway design. Some officials from that era said one thing left undone in the broad shift away from federal activism was improving safety in work zones.
 ''The feds could have, and I believe should have, issued some minimal state standards for work-zone safety,'' said Joan Claybrook, administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration from 1977 to 1981 and president emeritus of Public Citizen, the consumer advocacy group founded by Ralph Nader. ''They are definitely a huge hazard on the highway.''
 In the absence of laws or firm regulations, the states rely primarily on a set of guidelines and standards, many of them codified in the federal highway agency's Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices -- the bible of traffic safety for road builders. States are required to adopt it, or their own comparable manual, for all federally financed projects.
 But most of what the manual says about work-zone safety is neither mandatory nor specific. For example, it dictates the shape and content of warning signs, but leaves the decision on when and where to place them to project planners. The same is true for deciding how to close lanes, when to use different types of barricades and how to train workers responsible for traffic control.
 The states, acting through the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, have worked to keep it that way. Hard and fast requirements, they argue, would raise costs and increase liability. Highway engineers also say that because no two zones are the same, a cookie-cutter approach would never work. 
 ''We have judgment and expertise, and given some guidelines to follow, we will adopt those that are necessary in our state,'' said Ken Kobetsky, a highway engineering expert with Aashto.
 In an interview, Mr. Mendez said his agency had seen no evidence that work-zone safety was such a systemic issue that it required federal intervention. 
 ''People at the state level are out there every day, they understand how to implement projects,'' he said. ''And incidents will happen, it's unfortunate, not anything that any of us want. But I think at the end of the day, you have to be looking at the assumption that, like any professional, whether it's your doctor or your attorney or an engineer, that they're exercising their best professional judgment when it comes to safety.''
 Asked how many crashes were attributable to deficiencies in work-zone traffic control, Mr. Mendez could not say and deferred to an aide, who also did not have an answer. They acknowledged that almost no pertinent information was being collected, although they did cite statistics showing that speeding was a factor in about a third of work-zone deaths, while impaired driving was a factor in about a quarter. 
 Mr. Mendez also pointed to federal data showing an overall decline in work-zone fatalities -- 32 percent over the last five years, after climbing 20 percent in the previous five -- as evidence that ''something is happening'' to make them safer.
 There are reasons to question that statistic.
 A search of news accounts from 2007 and 2008 found at least 50 work-zone-related deaths nationwide -- including those of Anthony Sepeda, James Brashear and Manuel Ramirez -- not reported as such in the federal data. In about a third of the states, accident reports lack a separate section to note the presence of a work zone, and most allow for little or no interpretation of whether it contributed to the crash. Experts say that the police are generally not trained to recognize work-zone problems.
 Even some safety specialists at the Federal Highway Administration have questioned the value of the federal work-zone fatality statistics. Internal e-mail messages from 2004 show one specialist telling a colleague that ''the numbers have gone up and down, sometimes significantly ... with no real indication of why.'' The data, he said, ''does not tell us a thing about work-zone performance.''
 An Informational Black Hole
 The states and their contractors have a close and complicated relationship -- a constant struggle to balance safety with pressures to work quickly, inexpensively and with as little traffic interruption as possible. Mr. Hassell, a former state highway official who ran the Federal Highway Administration from 1980 to 1981, said states ''have to have a partnership arrangement that gets the day-to-day work done.''
 ''But,'' he said, ''that can quickly run afoul of the regulatory component.''
 That component involves sending in inspectors -- increasingly outside consultants -- to ensure that road builders comply with the safety standards in their contracts. But The Times's review of court cases found that inspectors often overlooked deficiencies, or were unable to get problems fixed when they did find them. The states' main enforcement tool is to withhold payment, but that, contractors say, is rarely done. (Federal officials, too, could not cite any instances in which they had withheld payment or debarred contractors for poor safety records.) 
 ''I'm not aware of it happening very often,'' said Mr. Sant, the industry official, adding that he believed there was little need to do so because contractors were generally vigilant about keeping work zones safe. Fear of lawsuits, he said, is also a major safety incentive. 
 But some states have tried to blunt motorists' ability to sue, passing laws protecting contractors from liability if they were following state-approved plans. It is also not uncommon for state highway officials to testify on behalf of contractors in wrongful death lawsuits -- or to help them in other ways.
 In 2003, Analee Rupp was left a quadriplegic by one of 35 accidents in a work zone on Interstate 15 in Utah. Her lawyer, David Olsen, thought he had strong evidence of negligence: police testimony that driving through a poorly designed lane closure was like playing ''Russian roulette.'' But the contractor, Granite Construction, produced photographs that it said were taken before Ms. Rupp's crash that showed the lane closure laid out perfectly.
 However, a patrolman pointed out skid marks from Ms. Rupp's vehicle in the photos, and Mr. Olsen said he discovered that the images had actually been shot by a state highway worker -- after the accident had been cleared and the lane closure corrected. Another state worker gave the photos and negatives to Granite to defend itself in court. 
 In a statement, Granite said any accusation that it had backdated the photos was ''completely without merit'' and that the company ''prides itself in going above and beyond the minimum standards required by the Federal Highway Administration and our project owners.'' 
 The case ended in a multimillion-dollar settlement. 
 The Federal Highway Administration does require states to assess their own oversight, through periodic reviews of work-zone safety procedures. But that process was criticized in a 2004 report by the National Transportation Safety Board. The report, after a fatal school bus crash in a Nebraska work zone, pointed out that the state's contention that its work zones were safe was based on a review supposedly carried out by an inspection team that traveled 2,000 miles in four days.
 ''Assuming 12-hour workdays, with no breaks, would leave only 15 hours to inspect 50 projects, about 18 minutes per project,'' the report said, adding that such figures call into question the thoroughness of inspections required by the Federal Highway Administration and ''the accuracy of the resulting statistics.''
 The report recommended that the administration ''participate in the states' work-zone safety inspections and diligently monitor'' the results. Since then, however, the highway agency has reduced the reviews' frequency -- to once every two years, from annually -- and stopped requiring that states share their findings. The resulting black hole of information was apparent when The Times asked for the most recent reviews: after a ''thorough search'' over several months, the agency could produce reviews from only 20 states. 
 They revealed numerous problems, large and small. In 13 states, inspectors observed flaggers not paying attention, loafing or giving misleading signals. In 10 states, pavement markings were obsolete, missing or defective, and sometimes guided drivers into concrete walls or other lanes of traffic. In six states, there were poorly designed lane closures. Almost every state had inadequate or defective warning signs.
 Ultimately, the federal agency's role is limited largely to dispensing guidance and directing money to industry groups that sponsor safety courses for workers. These courses, typically lasting a day or two, are often the only formal instruction workers -- many of them laborers like Anthony Kelly in the Zep case -- receive before being put in charge of traffic control in a work zone. 
 The transportation safety board's 2004 report assessed the classes' limitations. The courses, it said, ''did not include the depth of traffic operations and safety engineering training necessary to manage and make traffic engineering control decisions for a large construction project.''
 A Deadly Stretch of Road
 As far back as 1986, the Federal Highway Administration urged states to deal with pavement-edge drop-offs. It did so again last year, encouraging states to adopt an inexpensive fix -- a slight change in the paving equipment to smooth the edge. 
 But the agency has never required states to do this or sought to impose a uniform standard. Instead, there is a crazy quilt of policies: a study by the Center for Transportation Research and Education at Iowa State University found, for example, that while one state requires barriers for drop-offs of more than two inches, another mandates them only if a drop-off exceeds five feet.
 Prosaic danger and unheeded warnings -- perhaps nothing better crystallizes this dynamic than the string of accidents involving dangerous pavement edges in Texas. 
 In less than three months in 1998, six people died in nine car accidents linked to drop-offs on a five-mile stretch of Interstate 35 being repaved in Tarrant County. Lawsuits later revealed that as the accidents were unfolding, state workers and the contractors recognized the hazard, but bickered over the cost of smoothing the drop-offs. An employee of the contractor had voiced concerns before the crashes began but was overruled, according to court records. The lawsuits were eventually settled for about $25 million.
 On a July afternoon four years after the I-35 crashes, Kyong Leingang, 54, was heading home on Interstate 20 near Dallas, where the speed limit was 70, when the left wheels of her Ford Explorer dipped off a pavement edge in a work zone. Witnesses said she struggled to steer back onto the roadway, lost control and careered head-on into a minivan, killing herself and six members of an extended family in the minivan.
 The police concluded that Ms. Leingang had been speeding. Still, lawyers for the victims argued that the accident could have been avoided had the drop-off been mitigated. They obtained documents showing that three days before the crash, a state inspector complained to the contractor about untreated drop-offs; nothing was done. The case was settled for an undisclosed amount.
 Then, in 2005, a company called Peachtree Construction won a $1.4 million repaving job on Highway 51, a farm-to-market road that curves through part of North Texas. At a planning session, a state engineer warned that steps should be taken to ''minimize the drop-off,'' according to the meeting minutes.
 The travel lane and shoulder were about 20 feet across, too wide for the blade of Peachtree's asphalt-spreader. Because the roadway sloped toward the shoulder, a blade extender would not work, so Peachtree decided to pave the lane and shoulder separately.
 Peachtree still could have paved the shoulder promptly to avoid leaving a drop-off inside the travel lane. Instead, it chose to leave the drop-off in place for days, unprotected by barricades, while it focused on completing the travel lanes. Peachtree later contended that a state worker -- it was never clear exactly whom -- had told the company to do it that way, but no one from the state ever acknowledged doing so. At least one property owner on Highway 51 complained to the state, but the lane stayed open, with a speed limit of 65.
 Observing the work was a relatively inexperienced state inspector, Daniel Pennell, who explained later that he had not realized anything was amiss. But when a veteran inspector, Randall Grard, arrived, he immediately told the Peachtree supervisor, Raymond Taylor, that the drop-off was dangerous. Later, in a deposition, Mr. Grard recounted the conversation: 
 Q: So on Sept. 13, you and Raymond from Peachtree -- TxDOT and Peachtree -- are standing out there on this road going, ''This isn't good to have all these straight line edge drop-offs on the travel lane.'' Is that what -- you all had that discussion?
 A: Yes, we did.
 Q: What did you do about it?
 A: I went to my supervisors.
 Q: What did Mr. -- what did Raymond do about it?
 A: Said that's what he was -- the way he was going to do it.
 Mr. Taylor testified that while he recalled having ''a little dispute'' with Mr. Grard, he did not believe the drop-offs were dangerous. He said that the plan was always to pave the lanes and shoulders separately, and that state officials were aware of it.
 Mr. Grard said he complained to his supervisors on Sept. 13 and 14, but was told not to worry. Early the next morning, Bryan Lee's motorcycle slipped off the edge, which the police determined was about three inches deep -- enough to have called for a buffer, though none was put up. Mr. Lee, who was not wearing a helmet (Texas law does not require it), died at the scene.
 Mr. Lee's widow, Kari, sued Peachtree. The contractor received supportive testimony from a state highway engineer and blamed Mr. Lee for causing his own death. Peachtree, which declined to comment for this article, eventually settled for about $1.6 million, without admitting wrongdoing. The company continued getting Texas repaving contracts, and has received at least one project financed with federal stimulus money.
 Shaken by the accident, Mr. Pennell, the inspector, later quit the Transportation Department. Reached by phone in Oklahoma, where he was working as a welder, he said that the department's inspectors were woefully underpaid, and that some were not prepared ''to be responsible for the driving public.''
 A department spokesman, Jim Cotton, declined to comment on the case. But he said that generally, the agency's lead engineer on the project ''works with the inspector to make sure that the contractor follows all the requirements of the construction contract.'' 
 ''If we were aware of a problem,'' he said, ''we would want the contractor to fix it immediately.''
 In May, a group of Texas state inspectors went to do the work-zone safety review required by the federal government. Among the problems they discovered were pavement edge drop-offs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jesse Sepeda's son, Anthony, died when his motorcycle hit a backhoe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Bryan Lee, 26, was killed in 2005 when his motorcycle slid off a three-inch drop-off on a repaved section of Highway 51 in Texas. A state inspector had warned that the road was dangerous.
Bryan Lee
Anthony Sepeda (A24) Two years ago, Tyler Brashear, 13, survived a crash that killed his father and another driver in Florida when a truck plowed into a construction roadblock. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG KAHN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25) GRAPHICS: Common Hazards, Serious Consequences These were three of the most frequent problems found in a review of work-zone accidents. (Source: Police reports and court documents) (A24)
Case Study: Death on I-75 (Source: Florida Highway Patrol) (GRAPHICS BY SERGIO PECANHA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 AERIAL PHOTO FROM GOOGLE EARTH) (A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (70%); MOTORCYCLES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



641 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Flu Shots and Drugs Help Lift Walgreen's Profit

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: DEERFIELD, Ill. 

 BODY:
The drugstore operator Walgreen Company said on Monday that its quarterly profit rose 20 percent, mainly because of higher sales of prescription drugs and flu shots. 
 The company said that results, which topped Wall Street estimates, were helped by greater demand for flu shots in September and October and that its pharmacies were taking more market share. But it emphasized that consumers were cutting back on holiday shopping because of unemployment, hurting sales of items other than drugs.
 The company earned $489 million, or 49 cents a share, up from $408 million, or 41 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding 3 cents a share in restructuring costs, the company said it earned 52 cents a share, above the 48 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.
 Revenue in the period, which ended Nov. 30 and was the first quarter of Walgreen's fiscal year, rose 9.5 percent, to $16.36 billion, from $14.95 billion a year earlier. 
 Shares in Walgreen, which is based in Deerfield, Ill., fell 3 cents, to $36.61 a share. 
 Walgreen administered more than five million flu shots from September through November, compared with 1.2 million the previous flu season.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (93%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MARKET SHARE (73%)

COMPANY: WALGREEN CO (95%)

TICKER: WAG (NYSE) (95%); WAG (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (95%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



642 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Behind a Search Ad, a Struggle With Strategy

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
Cyber Monday had gone swimmingly for Tiny Prints. 
 Despite the economic downturn, customers streamed into the Tiny Prints online store on the Monday after Thanksgiving, called Cyber Monday because it is one of the busiest days of the year for Web retailers. They snapped up the company's custom holiday cards at roughly twice the rate of a year ago. 
 But in the following days, Ed Han, the chief executive, and his team made a risky bet in search of higher profits. Hoping that traffic and sales would stay up, they pulled back on the Google search ads that had helped drive visitors to Tiny Prints. 
 The gamble backfired. Just as Tiny Prints pulled back, competitors appeared to spend more aggressively to display their ads when people typed ''holiday cards'' or ''photo cards'' into Google. By the middle of the week, sales growth began to taper off and a bright holiday season suddenly appeared a bit less rosy. 
 ''We knew we had made a bad decision,'' Mr. Han said. Tiny Prints reversed course, but it took the company, which is privately held, more than a day to recover -- a critical amount of time during the heavy shopping season. 
 For most people, Google and other search engines are essential tools to navigate the Web. But the workings of the text ads, the blurbs that peddle goods and services on the search results pages, are largely hidden from Web users. 
 For more than one million businesses, Google's search advertising system is like a hose inundating Web sites with traffic. Managing it effectively, though, is as much art as it is science. It requires a mix of analytics and gamesmanship, a combination of skills that has become vitally important in the Internet age. 
 ''It is critical,'' said Ellen Siminoff, the chairwoman of Efficient Frontier, which helps companies manage their search advertising campaigns. ''You have to have data and be able to analyze it. It's a bit like playing chess, but you are blind to what your competitors will do.''
 Many industry insiders say search engine marketing, as the practice is known, is one of the most effective forms of advertising ever devised. In just a decade, it has grown into an $11 billion business in the United States. It accounts for the vast majority of Google's $22 billion in annual global sales. 
 Google's service, called AdWords, dominates so thoroughly that some advertisers have felt at the mercy of the company, and complained that they had little control over the complex advertising system. One company, TradeComet, filed an antitrust lawsuit accusing Google of artificially increasing its advertising rates. 
 But by and large, businesses find search advertising effective and continue to flock to it, albeit at a slower rate than in previous years. As growth has tapered off over the last year, Google has stepped up its outreach efforts to help midsize companies like Tiny Prints use its tools more effectively, hoping that will encourage those companies to spend more. 
 ''It's good for our business and it's good for their business,'' said Claire Johnson, vice president for online sales and operations at Google. 
 Like many other businesses, Tiny Prints also buys search ads on Yahoo and Microsoft's search engine, Bing. While results are ''very attractive,'' the traffic coming from those sites is small compared to referrals from Google, Mr. Han said. As a result, Tiny Prints spends nearly 90 percent of its search marketing budget on Google, he said.
 Mr. Han said that Tiny Prints, which specializes in high-end custom-designed greeting cards, had been working at perfecting its search advertising for the last two years. Its three-person team, veterans of Walmart.com and eBay, has become expert at poring over spreadsheets and sifting through the data about visitors and shoppers on the company's Web site. During the holiday season, they monitor ads and traffic patterns hourly, and meet daily with Mr. Han and other executives to adjust budgets and strategies. 
 During one of the company's daily budget meetings in mid-November, Anna Fieler, the vice president for marketing, said, ''We are on a trajectory to overspend on search.'' She then added, ''But we are delivering on revenue.''
 Search ads are bought from Google through an auction, and businesses pay Google only when someone clicks on their ad. An ad's position on Google's search results pages depends on Google's secret formula derived from bid prices, the rate at which users previously clicked on the ad and a ''quality score'' determined by Google. 
 Since not all clicks turn into purchases, the trick for advertisers is to make sure that the amount they bid, multiplied by the average number of clicks needed to make a sale -- the cost of acquiring a customer -- does not exceed the profit derived from that sale. 
 But that can be easier said than done. 
 Early in the holiday season, for example, most people are window-shopping, so few clicks turn into sales. Tiny Prints is forced to pay more than $50 to acquire each customer, leaving little room for profits on an average order. Relying on spreadsheets of buying patterns from previous years, Tiny Prints search marketers make the case to Mr. Han that their cost of acquiring a customer is on track. 
 ''We are seeing day by day that it is starting to dip,'' said Isabelle Steiner, the director for search marketing said at the meeting in mid-November. ''I'm projecting that by end of month, we'll be spending $35.''
 Based on those assurances, Mr. Han then gave the team the green light to increase spending on search ads. But Mr. Han brought up another point: competitors could disrupt the plans if they suddenly started bidding aggressively on the same keywords as Tiny Prints. 
 ''What if Hallmark comes in on Saturday?'' Mr. Han asked, referring to the Thanksgiving weekend. ''Do we have a plan to react to what competitors might do?''
 The plan, Ms. Steiner said, was to monitor the site around the clock. 
 A couple of weeks later, the vigilance paid off. 
 In a spot check squeezed between a birthday party and her own Christmas shopping, Ms. Fieler was welcomed by a screen of red alerts indicating that the Tiny Prints ads had fallen off the first page of Google search results for important keywords. 
 ''We were then forced to make and implement a new plan to react to the competitive environment real-time,'' Ms. Fieler said. ''It was very tricky trying to balance not overpaying by participating in the frenzy with getting the impressions and clicks we needed to drive the business.''
 By mid-December, with the bulk of the holiday shopping season behind them, Mr. Han and his team were looking haggard. In addition to late-night discussions of bidding strategies over instant messaging, they had pitched in to help wrap and ship orders.
 Mr. Han would not disclose the company's sales. But he said that by and large, the ad campaign on Google, which drove more than 20 percent of revenue, had been a success.
 ''Of the eight most important days of the year, we got seven exactly right,'' Mr. Han said. ''On one of the days, by our standards, we fell on our face.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ed Han, the chief executive of Tiny Prints, with Anna Fieler, the vice president for marketing. The greeting card company has a team that analyzes and adjusts its search ads on Google.(B1) A designer at Tiny Prints last week. Gamesmanship and data analysis are critical to successful search advertising. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); RETAIL SALES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); LITIGATION (67%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



643 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: College Is Beset By Accusations In New Jersey

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
In the 1990s, the president of Adelphi University was accused of receiving excessive compensation and forced from office. Since then, the leaders of American, Towson, Texas Southern and other endowment-poor universities have also crashed to earth after plunging their institutions into turmoil for similar excesses.
 Now, charges are swirling over Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, N.J. The state attorney general has sued the institute and its president, Harold J. Raveche, accusing him of plundering the endowment and receiving $1.8 million in illegal low-interest loans for vacation homes, with half of them later forgiven.
 The institute's trustees tripled Dr. Raveche's salary over a decade, to $1.1 million last year, higher than presidential salaries at Harvard, M.I.T. and Princeton, and, the lawsuit says, Stevens used multiple sets of books to hide its deteriorating financial condition.
 ''We found extensive misconduct going back years, a pattern of misinformation to the board and misuse of the endowment,'' the attorney general, Anne Milgram, said in an interview this month. ''Stevens Institute needs real reform.'' 
 Ms. Milgram, citing her oversight responsibilities for New Jersey nonprofits, filed suit on Sept. 17, naming Dr. Raveche; Lawrence T. Babbio Jr., the chairman of the institute's board and a former Verizon president; and the Stevens trustees as defendants.
 Dr. Raveche's lawyer, Angelo Genova, said he would not allow his client to be interviewed. A Stevens spokesman, Peter McDonough, took written questions about Dr. Raveche's salary, mortgage loans and expense billings, and lawyers for the board responded, ''We cannot comment on the issues raised by the attorney general because they are part of the ongoing litigation.''
 Jack B. Siegel, a Chicago lawyer who follows nonprofit cases nationwide, called the allegations against Stevens ''the case of the year'' because, unlike previous campus scandals focusing on presidents' salaries or spending, the case against Stevens outlines a sweeping list of accusations.
 ''You've got allegations involving excessive compensation, but also abuse of the endowment, keeping two sets of books, misleading the board and forgiveness of below-market-rate loans,'' Mr. Siegel said. ''The entire process of oversight looks tainted. You rarely see a case this extreme.''
 The Internal Revenue Service has its own continuing investigation that ''includes issues pertaining to defendant Raveche's compensation,'' the suit says. It also notes that Stevens paid the I.R.S. $750,000 last year in penalties and unpaid taxes for several of its spinoff technology companies.
 Steve Cuff, a Stevens alumnus who founded a California technology firm and served on Stevens's board for 10 years, said Dr. Raveche had packed it with loyalists.
 ''They were all beholden to him, and there were no controls on what he spent,'' Mr. Cuff said. ''He'd travel the world, keeping no receipts. He'd come to the West Coast, have limousines meet him, stay in five-star hotels, all under the guise of raising money. And it was very, very expensive.''
 Maureen Weatherall, a Stevens vice president, said Dr. Raveche was a visionary leader who had rejuvenated the institute since becoming its president in 1988, building undergraduate enrollment to 2,240 and graduate enrollment to 3,700. The endowment grew to $155 million last year from $57 million in 1988, she said.
 The state's suit says that the endowment was valued at $157.5 million in 2000, but because the institute borrowed from it repeatedly in the years since, it is now ''worth less than $115 million.''
 Dr. Raveche has a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Hofstra University and a Ph.D. in physical chemistry and statistical mechanics from the University of California, San Diego. From 1985 to 1988, before going to Stevens, he served as dean of science at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y. 
 The turmoil at Stevens can be traced to 2004, when Moody's downgraded its bond ratings to near junk status because of operating deficits and rising debt. A faculty committee, led by Donald N. Merino, a professor of technology and engineering management, had studied the institute's tax returns and other public financial reports, and concluded that administrative salaries were excessive and that Stevens's finances were deteriorating.
 Ms. Milgram said her investigation began with reports from a faculty whistle-blower.
 ''There's no question, I'm the main whistle-blower, and it's not been easy,'' Dr. Merino said. ''They are making my life miserable.''
 Among surprises in the faculty's 2004 report was that Stevens, which provides Dr. Raveche with a brick colonial residence with a view of the Manhattan skyline, had extended him three mortgage loans totaling $1.8 million for two vacation homes, one in Mount Snow Valley, Vt., and the other near the Jersey Shore. The suit calls those loans ''unlawful.''
 In a 2005 interview with The Chronicle of Higher Education, Dr. Raveche justified the loans by saying that he frequently used the two homes for college fund-raising events. 
 In that same period, The Chronicle put Dr. Raveche on its list of the country's highest-paid college presidents. Ms. Milgram's complaint quotes Stevens trustees as saying that they first learned of his compensation not from board deliberations to approve it, but from that report.
 One Stevens trustee, the founder of New York Waterway, Arthur E. Imperatore Sr., demanded a full accounting of Stevens's finances at a fall 2005 board meeting, but got little support, said Richard S. Muller, a professor emeritus of electrical engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, and a Stevens board member who attended the meeting.
 ''Arthur stood up and resigned, right then and there,'' he said. Dr. Muller, a member of the National Academy of Engineering, said he also soon left the board, but not before leveling his own criticisms.
 In a 2005 e-mail message that Dr. Muller said he sent to other Stevens trustees, he referred to the Berkeley chancellor, whose salary that year was about $400,000, one-third less than that of Dr. Raveche, yet ''heads a campus with 35,000 students, seven Nobel laureates and nearly 200 National Academy members.'' He called Dr. Raveche's salary a ''gross error.''
 ''One, Hal is not worth it; two, it is wildly out of line with any reasonably benchmarked comparative situation; three, it alienates alumni and erodes faculty confidence; and four, Stevens is nearly broke and cannot afford it,'' Dr. Muller wrote. 
 The state's suit says that in 2005, two independent compensation consultants told a committee of Stevens trustees that the president's salary was excessive. That information was withheld from the full board, according to the suit. Furthermore, it says, to justify his salary, Dr. Raveche insisted that one consultant benchmark it against the presidents of elite universities including Johns Hopkins, which has a research budget 50 times larger than Stevens's.
 The Stevens board has rejected calls by the faculty for an independent audit. On Sept. 2, Ms. Milgram met with the board at the campus, outlining her accusations and offering to negotiate a settlement if Dr. Raveche and the chairman, Mr. Babbio, would step down.
 Instead, the board went to court seeking, unsuccessfully, to persuade Judge Thomas P. Olivieri of New Jersey Superior Court to seal the proceedings in her lawsuit to avoid ''devastating consequences'' that could result from it. Stevens has not yet responded to the state's specific accusations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Stevens Institute in Hoboken provides a house, above, for its president, Harold J. Raveche. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Dr. Raveche, seen in 2004, is being sued by New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM CUMMINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); MISCONDUCT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



644 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: The Protocol Society

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
Bob Herbert is off today.

 BODY:
In the 19th and 20th centuries we made stuff: corn and steel and trucks. Now, we make protocols: sets of instructions. A software program is a protocol for organizing information. A new drug is a protocol for organizing chemicals. Wal-Mart produces protocols for moving and marketing consumer goods. Even when you are buying a car, you are mostly paying for the knowledge embedded in its design, not the metal and glass.
 A protocol economy has very different properties than a physical stuff economy. For example, you and I can't use the same piece of metal at the same time. But you and I can use the same software program at the same time. Physical stuff is subject to the laws of scarcity: you can use up your timber. But it's hard to use up a good idea. Prices for material goods tend toward equilibrium, depending on supply and demand. Equilibrium doesn't really apply to the market for new ideas. 
 Over the past decades, many economists have sought to define the differences between the physical goods economy and the modern protocol economy. In 2000, Larry Summers, then the Treasury secretary, gave a speech called ''The New Wealth of Nations,'' laying out some principles. Leading work has been done by Douglass North of Washington University, Robert Fogel of the University of Chicago, Joel Mokyr of Northwestern and Paul Romer of Stanford.
 Their research is the subject of an important new book called ''From Poverty to Prosperity,'' by Arnold Kling and Nick Schulz.
 Kling and Schulz start off entertainingly by describing a food court. There are protocols everywhere, not only for how to make the food, but how to greet the customers, how to share common equipment like trays and tables, how to settle disputes between the stalls and enforce contracts with the management.
 The success of an economy depends on its ability to invent and embrace new protocols. Kling and Schulz use North's phrase ''adaptive efficiency,'' but they are really talking about how quickly a society can be infected by new ideas. 
 Protocols are intangible, so the traits needed to invent and absorb them are intangible, too. First, a nation has to have a good operating system: laws, regulations and property rights.
 For example, if you are making steel, it costs a medium amount to make your first piece of steel and then a significant amount for each additional piece. If, on the other hand, you are making a new drug, it costs an incredible amount to invent your first pill. But then it's nearly free to copy it millions of times. You're only going to invest the money to make that first pill if you can have a temporary monopoly to sell the copies. So a nation has to find a way to protect intellectual property while still encouraging the flow of ideas.
 Second, a nation has to have a good economic culture. ''From Poverty to Prosperity'' includes interviews with major economists, and it is striking how they are moving away from mathematical modeling and toward fields like sociology and anthropology.
 What really matters, Edmund S. Phelps of Columbia argues, is economic culture -- attitudes toward uncertainty, the willingness to exert leadership, the willingness to follow orders. A strong economy needs daring consumers (Phelps says China lacks this) and young researchers with money to play with (Romer notes that N.I.H. grants used to go to 35-year-olds but now they go to 50-year-olds).
 A protocol economy tends toward inequality because some societies and subcultures have norms, attitudes and customs that increase the velocity of new recipes while other subcultures retard it. Some nations are blessed with self-reliant families, social trust and fairly enforced regulations, while others are cursed by distrust, corruption and fatalistic attitudes about the future. It is very hard to transfer the protocols of one culture onto those of another.
 It's exciting to see so many Nobel laureates taking this consilient approach. North, the leader of the field, doesn't even think his work is economics, just unified social science.
 But they are still economists, with worldviews that are still excessively individualistic and rationalistic. Kling and Schulz do not do a good job of explaining how innovation emerges. They list some banal character traits -- charisma, passion -- that entrepreneurs supposedly possess. To get a complete view of where the debate is headed, I'd read ''From Poverty to Prosperity,'' and then I'd read Richard Ogle's 2007 book, ''Smart World,'' one of the most underappreciated books of the decade. Ogle applies the theory of networks and the philosophy of the extended mind (you have to read it) to show how real world innovation emerges from social clusters.
 Economic change is fomenting intellectual change. When the economy was about stuff, economics resembled physics. When it's about ideas, economics comes to resemble psychology. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

TITLE: From Poverty to Prosperity (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



645 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Hires Finance Chief From Microsoft

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Nelson D. Schwartz contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
General Motors' chief executive, Edward E. Whitacre Jr., continued his hurry-up offense approach to remaking the automakers' management ranks Monday, naming Christopher P. Liddell, who led a recent $3 billion cost-cutting effort at Microsoft, as its chief financial officer and a vice chairman.
 Mr. Liddell, whose departure from Microsoft was announced last month, is the first high-ranking executive hired by G.M. under Mr. Whitacre, who has also been elevating internal executives to more senior positions and creating a culture of greater accountability. 
 The appointment of Mr. Liddell comes about three months after G.M.'s directors decided to replace Ray Young, who has been chief financial officer since March 2008.
 When Microsoft announced in November that Mr. Liddell would leave at the end of 2009, the company said in a statement that he was ''looking at a number of opportunities that will expand his career beyond being a C.F.O.''
 There was considerable speculation at the time that he would move on to be the chief executive at another software company.
 Now Mr. Liddell could be in the running to become chief executive at G.M., either when Mr. Whitacre is ready to step aside or at some point after that. 
 The previous chief executive, Fritz Henderson, and his most recent predecessor, Rick Wagoner, each served time as G.M.'s finance chief before being promoted to the top job.
 ''The C.F.O. office is historically one of the tickets to the corner office,'' said Michael Useem, a professor of management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. ''Finance has become so critical in how companies operate and where the value is being created. Obviously any C.F.O. is well positioned to be considered.''
 At Microsoft, Mr. Liddell carried out a plan this year to help weather the economic downturn that included the software company's first mass layoffs, wage freezes and other spending cutbacks. Microsoft also said it returned $14 billion to shareholders through dividends and stock buybacks in the most recent fiscal year.
 Mr. Liddell, 51, became Microsoft's chief financial officer in 2005 after holding the same position at International Paper Company. He had also been chief executive at a forestry products company in his native New Zealand and an investment banker, but has no automotive experience. 
 He has an engineering degree from the University of Auckland in New Zealand and a master's in philosophy from Oxford University in England. and is a former director of the New Zealand Rugby Union.
 Mr. Liddell earned $3.7 million at Microsoft in the 2009 fiscal year and will receive $1.9 million after leaving the company. He will earn significantly less at G.M., at least initially, because the company must adhere to executive pay limits tied to the $50 billion it borrowed from the federal government in the last year.
 Among his expected near-term responsibilities at G.M. will be to position the company for a public stock offering as soon as next year.
 ''Chris brings a depth and experience to this job that were unmatched in our search for a new financial leader,'' Mr. Whitacre said in a statement. ''We're also looking to his experience and insights in corporate strategy as a member of the senior leadership team in helping our restructuring efforts.''
 G.M.'s efforts to clean up its balance sheet include the probable closing, announced Friday, of its Saab division. 
 But Spyker Cars, a tiny Dutch automaker that is seeking to buy Saab from General Motors, extended its offer for the beleaguered Swedish company, keeping alive slim hopes that Saab would survive despite G.M.'s threat to shut it down. 
 G.M. turned down Spyker's first offer for Saab on Friday, but Spyker returned Sunday with a new proposal.
 ''Spyker has been in contact with G.M. today, and continues to develop its proposal for the purchase of Saab,'' the company said in a statement. ''Spyker has extended the validity of its proposal therefore until further notice.''
 G.M. has said it will study the Spyker offer as well as other potential bids for Saab, but will close Saab if a buyer cannot be found by Dec. 31. 
 Spyker said the new offer addressed the concerns that G.M. raised last week, including whether Spyker could qualify for a loan of 400 million euros from the European Investment Bank. Spyker said the new proposal did not require the E.I.B.'s financing. 
 Despite the deadline extension, Spyker's offer remains a long shot. The ''wind down'' process that G.M. began Friday is continuing even as it studies potential bids. 
 G.M. officials have not specified publicly what the problems were with Spyker's initial bid, but several officials with knowledge of the negotiations said it was Spyker's reliance on Russian financing for the deal, as well as an issue of whether Russian competitors might end up benefiting from G.M.'s latest designs. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Saab factory in Trollhattan, Sweden. G.M. is planning to close Saab but says it will still study bids for the unit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASPER HEDBERG/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Soon heading to G.M., Christopher P. Liddell is known for leading a $3 billion cost-cutting effort as financial chief of Microsoft. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S. WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (94%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ENGINEERING (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (61%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); RUGBY (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (92%); INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); IP (NYSE) (63%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (63%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); RICK WAGONER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%) NEW ZEALAND (93%); UNITED STATES (73%); ENGLAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



646 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: DEMOCRATS FACE NEW CHALLENGES IN MERGING BILLS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Even as the Senate took a significant step toward passing its version of a sweeping overhaul of the health insurance system before Christmas, Democrats were grappling Monday with deep internal divisions over abortion, the issue that most complicates their drive to merge the Senate and House bills and send final legislation to President Obama.
 In the House, advocates and opponents of abortion rights and conservative Democrats have made clear that they object, for different reasons, to the Senate's compromise language on abortion. Interest groups on both sides of the spectrum -- Planned Parenthood on the abortion rights side, Catholic bishops for the anti-abortion rights camp -- also oppose the abortion provision in the Senate bill, leaving Speaker Nancy Pelosi with a challenge in rounding up the votes she needs in the House.
 Ms. Pelosi's room for maneuvering is limited because any changes to the language in the Senate bill could unravel the deal that provided Democrats with the 60 votes they need to get the legislation through the Senate. 
 Ms. Pelosi, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and the White House will have to find a way forward on abortion even as they confront other big differences between the House and Senate bills, including how to pay to expand insurance coverage to more than 30 million Americans and whether to include a government-run plan to compete with private insurers.
 The Senate bill cleared a major hurdle early Monday, when the Senate voted 60 to 40, along party lines, to limit debate on the guts of its measure. Two more votes are set for Tuesday. Calling it a ''historic vote,'' Mr. Obama said, ''The United States Senate knocked down a filibuster aimed at blocking a final vote on health care reform, and scored a big victory for the American people.''
 Senate Democrats got another lift on Monday when the American Medical Association endorsed their legislation, which embodies Mr. Obama's top domestic priority.
 ''Of all the organizations and individuals that have supported this bill, I rate this one as the most important,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and a co-author of the bill.
 Jubilant and exhausted after winning the 1 a.m. test vote, Democrats on Monday were already thinking ahead to the next stage of the legislative process. The Senate and the House will try to hash out their differences, with members of the House under intense pressure to accommodate the tenuous deals in the Senate despite their ideological qualms. And no issue is shaping up to be more complex than abortion.
 Representative Bart Stupak, Democrat of Michigan and the author of the anti-abortion provisions in the House bill, said Monday, ''It would be extremely difficult for me to vote for a bill'' taking the Senate approach on abortion. 
 The House, more liberal than the Senate on many issues, would impose more stringent restrictions, barring coverage of abortion by any health plan bought even partly with federal subsidies.
 Under the bill that is likely to be approved this week by the Senate, health plans could cover abortion. But people who enroll in such plans would have to write two premium checks, one for abortion coverage and one for everything else. Insurers would have to keep separate accounts, and state officials would police the ''segregation of funds.''
 Douglas D. Johnson, legislative director of the National Right to Life Committee, said it was difficult to envision a compromise because ''people opposed to abortion see it as the taking of innocent human life.''
 Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, said Monday that the compromise she struck last week with Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, offered a potential road map for successful negotiations on the issue with the House. 
 In an interview, Mrs. Boxer said the Senate bill created ''a firm wall'' that would prevent the use of federal money to pay for insurance coverage of abortions, meeting a demand of opponents of abortion rights, while allowing women to use their own money to buy health plans that cover the procedure.
 ''When you have both extremes saying they're unhappy, I think it's a fair compromise,'' Mrs. Boxer said. ''Because we have this compromise that's being attacked on either side, I think that gives us momentum going into the final conference.'' 
 Sixty-four House Democrats, representing one-fourth of the House Democratic caucus, voted for stringent restrictions on insurance coverage of abortion. And 41 of them voted for passage of the House bill, so they constitute a crucial bloc. The bill was approved, 220 to 215, on Nov. 7.
 But leading supporters of abortion rights in the House said they would not vote for a final bill if it included those restrictions, which they fear would curtail access to abortion for many women who already have insurance.
 The House bill would establish a tax surcharge on income over $500,000 for individuals and over $1 million for couples. The Senate bill would tax high-cost employer-sponsored health plans and increase the Medicare payroll tax on individuals with incomes over $200,000 and couples over $250,000. 
 Lawmakers said they could envision a compromise mixing the two approaches.
 More than 190 House members have gone on record against the Senate's proposed excise tax on ''Cadillac health plans,'' which is also opposed by organized labor. But the White House and some health economists say the tax could help control health costs by encouraging employers to shop for cheaper policies that would not be hit by the tax.
 It is unclear whether the House and the Senate will appoint a formal conference committee or just try to work out their differences in negotiations with Democratic leaders and committee chairmen from the two chambers. In any event, White House officials expect to play a huge role.
 The Senate may have the upper hand in negotiations on a government health plan, championed by liberal Democrats.
 Senate Democratic leaders dropped the public option after concluding they could not get 60 votes for it. Their bill calls instead for two or more nationwide health plans, to be offered by private insurers under contracts negotiated with the federal Office of Personnel Management.
 Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a liberal advocacy group that works closely with the White House, said Monday: ''I think we will not have a public option in the final bill. It would be close to impossible to pass it in the Senate.''
 On this, as on several other issues, Mr. Pollack said, ''the Senate has somewhat greater leverage than the House'' because Senate Democrats need 60 votes, the exact number in their caucus, to overcome Republican opposition.
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, said, ''There is a natural tendency to split the difference between the Senate and the House.'' But on major issues in the health bill, Mr. Lieberman said, ''splitting the difference means you won't have 60 votes in the Senate.''
 In the eyes of consumers and voters, the success of the legislation will hinge, to a large degree, on whether it makes insurance more affordable. One of the most important issues for House and Senate negotiators is how to aid low- and middle- income people.
 The House would expand Medicaid to cover people with incomes less than 150 percent of the poverty level ($33,075 for a family of four). The Senate would expand eligibility to 133 percent of the poverty level ($29,327 for a family of four). Many advocates for low-income people prefer the House approach.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senate Democratic leaders and the president of the American Medical Association heading on Monday to a press conference where they said the group had endorsed the Senate health plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (94%); LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); HARRY REID (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); BART STUPAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009



647 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Harsh Realities Stand in the Way of a Leader's Vision of a New Japan

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
A growing deficit, a spat with Washington, a campaign finance investigation and broken promises: Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama's first 100 days in office in Japan have been anything but smooth.
 Four months after a landslide election victory swept aside a half-century of virtual one-party rule, Mr. Hatoyama's agenda for a new Japan is under threat amid policy missteps and the harsh realities facing Japan, which has the world's second largest economy. Further complicating his work is a vocal fringe party in his coalition that is at odds with Mr. Hatoyama over government spending plans and debt.
 ''Mr. Hatoyama needs to regain control. He is letting the tail wag the dog,'' said Noriko Hama, professor of economics at the Doshisha Graduate School of Business in Kyoto. ''Japan's economy could backslide.'' 
 Mr. Hatoyama's Democratic Party rode to power on a promise to end pork-barrel spending on public works projects championed by the long-ruling Liberal Democrats and divert the money to tax cuts and subsidies that would bolster household incomes.
 In recent weeks, a government task force has staged a public review of proposed government spending for the next fiscal year, cutting budgets and demanding that projects that are not urgent be postponed or abolished.
 But those cuts came to less than a fourth of the government's target of $32.8 billion -- too little to make a dent in a budget packed with stimulus measures to drive spending and bolster employment after Japan's worst recession since World War II.
 The lack of progress on budget cutting has fed jitters over the sustainability of Japan's public debt, which is approaching twice the nation's gross domestic product. Analysts say the government is likely to go well beyond the limit of $480 billion it has set for next year.
 Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii reiterated Tuesday that the government would stick to that target, calling it ''a promise Prime Minister Hatoyama made to the public.'' But tight finances forced Mr. Hatoyama to renege this week on a pledge to abolish a tax on gasoline. The government has also backtracked on a promise to eliminate highway tolls, though it vows to keep other parts of its campaign platform, such as offering cash subsidies to families raising children.
 ''The public understands that finances are tight,'' Mr. Hatoyama told reporters on Tuesday, after apologizing for going back on his word. ''I am sure the public wishes for the money to be put to work to help stimulate the economy.''
 Though the public has been largely patient with Mr. Hatoyama, his popularity has started to slide, a trend that began after he wavered on whether to renegotiate a 2006 deal to relocate a United States air base on the island of Okinawa.
 The prime minister has also become embroiled in a campaign finance scandal involving $4 million in donations that prosecutors say were improperly reported. He told prosecutors this week in a written statement that he had no knowledge of the money, which Japanese newspapers said might have been contributions from his wealthy family disguised as donations.
 At the heart of Mr. Hatoyama's troubles, however, is Japan's faltering economy. Although the country technically emerged from recession this year, it remains mired in a deflationary cycle of falling prices, profits, wages and spending. A sustained rise in the value of the yen has also hurt the export-dependent economy. The government has pressed Japan's central bank to flood financial markets with money to spur the economy, but with limited results.
 As the economy has floundered, tax revenue has dried up. Mr. Fujii has said he expected tax receipts for the year ending in March to come to a 25-year low of just over $400 billion, or $100 billion less than an initial estimate. That is also less than the government's deficit for the current fiscal year -- almost $590 billion.
 The shortfall is sending the government scrambling to secure resources any way it can to keep from adding to its debt. Keeping the gasoline surcharge will bring in about $27 billion, economists say. The Hatoyama administration also decided Tuesday to raise Japan's tobacco tax by a few cents per cigarette beginning Oct. 1, Bloomberg News reported.
 In the meantime, an uneasy alliance with a fringe party is threatening to send budgets even higher. At the heart of the matter is Shizuka Kamei, the banking minister and head of the tiny but strategically important People's New Party.
 Last month, Mr. Kamei fought successfully for a much-larger-than-planned $78 billion supplementary budget for the current fiscal year.
 A former Liberal Democrat with strong ties to the construction industry, Mr. Kamei has been vocal in calling for a return to public works, raising fears in some circles that Japan could unleash projects on a country already chock-full of dams and roads.
 ''Coalition governments are prone to running up budget deficits,'' Ryutaro Kono, a Tokyo-based economist at BNP Paribas, warned in a recent note. ''There is an incentive for each coalition member to get their pet programs approved to highlight their profile.''
 Moreover, Mr. Kamei has led the charge to freeze the privatization of the state-run postal savings bank, which has long been accused of squandering domestic savings. That would undo years of reforms introduced by the Liberal Democrats to resuscitate Japan's long-stagnant economy.
 Mr. Hatoyama's government is eager to show progress on Japan's economy. His government faces its first test at the polls in mid-2010, when voters will choose members of the upper house of Parliament.
 ''Mr. Hatoyama is trying to bring about change, yet he faces resistance from within his own camp,'' Professor Hama of Doshisha said. ''If Mr. Hatoyama isn't careful, Japan will find itself back in the dark old days.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama met with reporters Monday at his official residence in Tokyo after talks with cabinet ministers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIJI PRESS, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); FAMILY (75%); RECESSION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); TAX LAW (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GASOLINE (67%); FUEL TAX (66%); WORLD WAR II (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%)

COMPANY: DOSHISHA CO LTD (56%)

TICKER: 7483 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: YUKIO HATOYAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



648 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: When Just About Any Work Will Do, Including Shoveling Snow

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
After getting teeth pulled last month, Dawaine Johnson, a chef, learned that he had been replaced by someone making a third of his salary.
 But a greater indignity, joked Mr. Johnson, 44, as he dug a shovel into a two-foot drift in Chinatown, was to take advice that he had doled out to his family for years.
 ''I used to tell my son, I don't care what you have to do to make money, even if you have to shovel snow, though I said it much more derogatory than that,'' Mr. Johnson said as he cleared a wet clump from a sidewalk on St. James Place. 
 ''Now I'm shoveling my own words.''
 On Tuesday morning, Mr. Johnson and a team of about two dozen others headed into frigid air on behalf of the city's emergency snow laborers program, which pays people $12 an hour to unbury fire hydrants, scrape crosswalks and create a curbside space where people can wait for a bus.
 Each season, the number of workers who turn out for the program depends, of course, on how much snow falls. 
 But with just one storm, this year has easily surpassed 2008, with 1,661 people shoveling over the past three days, and with more shovelers planning to head out on Wednesday. 
 In contrast, between December and March of last year, a total of 1,530 people shoveled, said Keith Mellis, a spokesman for the city's Department of Sanitation, which runs the program. 
 And as might be expected in a city with double-digit unemployment, the bleak job market may help explain the spike.
 ''It's difficult to say for sure,'' Mr. Mellis said, of the numbers of unemployed on the crews, ''but there are quite a lot of people out of work right now.'' 
 It was not known what portion of the workers at New York's 59 sanitation garages, almost all of which hired shovelers over the past few days, were jobless. 
 But an unofficial sampling of the shovelers who turned up at Garage Three in Manhattan, and who later slipped into bright orange vests under the Manhattan Bridge on Henry Street, seemed to support Mr. Mellis's suspicion that more than a few had no other prospects.
 ''I want snow till May,'' said Carlos Rosario, 54, an underemployed lighting rigger for events whose main clients had been Lehman Brothers, an investment bank that no longer exists, and American International Group, the insurance company that was bailed out. Mr. Rosario worked only four events in 2009, compared with 30 last year, he said. 
 Kevin Butler, 23, a real estate consultant from Fishkill, N.Y., said bad conditions in his business have left him with a lot of free time, too. He woke at 4 a.m. to catch a train to the city to make sure he landed a spot. The jobs require two forms of identification, clearance to work in the United States and physical fitness.
 Mr. Butler, who is also a student at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, with hopes of becoming a state trooper, was glad to pass the time. 
 ''I feel happy because I'm achieving something,'' said Mr. Butler, who was bundled in a Carhartt jacket over a hooded sweatshirt.
 Others have employment but are seeking more, even if it leads to challenging schedules, said Ron Blake, 51, who like most of the group lives on the nearby Lower East Side. A maintenance worker in the financial district, Mr. Blake had come straight from his overnight shift, which ended at 6 a.m.
 ''People in other countries don't get a day off,'' Mr. Blake said as he set upon a huge white pile encircling an M15 bus stop sign on Madison Street. Following orders that are barked by supervisors, shovelers flip the snow back on the street, where it will melt, though at one point a taxicab fishtailed through a patch, its tires squealing.
 Nearby, commuters waiting for the bus -- relegated to a faraway point on the sidewalk because of the snow banks -- nodded their approval, like Lara Balnyte, 31, a kindergarten teacher from Chinatown who clasped a cup of steaming tea with both hands.
 ''I'm not sure what happens when it melts, if there will be puddles,'' Ms. Balnyte said, ''but I'm glad they're doing it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Temporary workers can earn $12 an hour clearing snow for the Sanitation Department, and this week, the need was great. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



649 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Switching Parties

BYLINE: By BERNIE BECKER

 BODY:
Representative Parker Griffith of Alabama, who had compiled one of the more conservative voting records among House Democrats since being elected in 2008, said on Tuesday that he was becoming a Republican. 
 Mr. Griffith, 67, below, announced the move while at home in his conservative northern Alabama district, the Fifth, saying he felt compelled to stand up to ''policies that burden our children with debt and threaten our economy.'' 
 Mr. Griffith, an oncologist, took particular aim at the Democrats' efforts to overhaul the health care system. ''I want to make it perfectly clear that this bill is bad for our doctors,'' said Mr. Griffith, who voted against the House health care bill in November. ''It's bad for our patients. It's bad for the young men and women who are considering going into the health care fields.''
 Mr. Griffith, who won a closely contested election last year, also sided with House Republicans on the stimulus package and the major energy legislation the chamber passed over the summer.
 In all, he has voted with Democrats about 84 percent of the time so far.
 In a statement, Representative Chris Van Hollen, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said Mr. Griffith had ''a duty and responsibility'' to repay Democrats, including the committee, which spent more than $1 million on his behalf in last year's election. 
 For his part, Representative Pete Sessions, the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, cast the decision as ''emblematic of the message that millions of concerned citizens have been trying to send to a Democrat Party that has become increasingly unwilling to listen.''
 Mr. Griffith's decision comes shortly after two Democrats from potentially competitive districts -- Representatives Baron P. Hill of Indiana and John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina -- said they would seek re-election in 2010, despite speculation that each would bow out. 
 Four other veteran House Democrats, also from potential swing districts, have announced their retirements in the last month or so. BERNIE BECKER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); ONCOLOGY (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); ENERGY REGULATION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: PARKER GRIFFITH (92%); BARON P HILL (59%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (59%); PETE SESSIONS (59%); JOHN SPRATT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



650 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: A Magazine's Home To Enter a Tough Market

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: CHAPPAQUA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The imminent departure of Reader's Digest, a fixture in this leafy Westchester County hamlet since 1939, represents more of an emotional loss than a financial one for the area. 
 Many of the company's 900 workers commute to their jobs from New York City, or live in neighboring towns, according to Barbara S. Gerrard, the supervisor of the town of New Castle, which includes Chappaqua. 
 But for the owner of the property, the loss of its tenant couldn't come at a worse time. Reader's Digest had 15 years left on its lease, but was able to break it under an agreement approved last month as part of its Chapter 11 bankruptcy in August. Under a deal with the landlord, Reader's Digest will leave in the beginning of the summer and pay rent on part of the property through the end of next year. 
 The owner of the 116-acre property, SG Chappaqua -- a partnership of two Connecticut companies, Summit Development and Greenfield Partners -- bought the site for $59 million five years ago from Reader's Digest. Summit, which is based in Southport, has developed more than 60 projects representing more than four million square feet of commercial space and more than 1,000 residential units since its founding in 1981. Among its properties is Belden Square, a two-building, three-story office complex located in Norwalk, Conn.
 The company, in its partnership with Greenfield Partners, a 12-year-old real estate investment firm in South Norwalk, has a number of projects planned, including a residential development on the Reader's Digest site. 
 The property here, a 700,000-square-foot brick office building put up by the founders of Reader's Digest in 1939, was renamed Chappaqua Crossing by its new owners, who rented 300,000 square feet in the building back to the publisher and 90,000 square feet to three other tenants, including a media company and two medical-oriented companies. The rest of the space is empty. 
 Because of a zoning rule imposed by the town a year after the sale of the building to the new owners, only 470,000 square feet of the building's 700,000 square feet can be leased. The new zoning also says that no more than four tenants can occupy the iconic structure, with its imposing rotunda at the entrance. Also, of the four tenants, one must occupy at least 200,000 square feet, the town said. 
 The zoning restrictions may have been doable four years ago, but filling that much space in today's market with a single tenant is ''close to impossible,'' said William V. Cuddy Jr., an executive vice president for CB Richard Ellis, a commercial brokerage. ''There are few prospects of that magnitude out there anymore. To say that this is an inopportune time for SG Chappaqua to lose Reader's Digest as a tenant is an understatement.''
 Geoff Thompson, a spokesman for SG Chappaqua, agreed that the time was tough, but said his company ''will not be alone in having vacant space in Westchester.''
 SG Chappaqua has not yet begun to market the property, but Mr. Cuddy said it would have to offer rent and other incentives to attract tenants, especially since the property is not close to a major highway or train station. 
 In light of the current office market, the town of New Castle may amend its zoning restrictions on the property to allow more companies at the site, Ms. Gerrard, the town's supervisor, said. 
 SG Chappaqua, given the diminishing of its income, is seeking property tax relief from the town. It pays $1.5 million a year now and is asking to pay half that amount based on the reduced use of the property given the earlier downsizing of Reader's Digest. 
 When the Wallaces, the couple who founded the Reader's Digest, moved the company some 70 years ago from a basement office in Greenwich Village initially to Pleasantville and then to its home in Chappaqua, it was among the first corporate relocations to Westchester. In the years following, the county became home to many business giants. 
 But when the economy faltered in the late 1980s and early '90s, many of those large corporations either reduced their presence or relocated. Vacancy rates soared as commercial landlords tried to fill those large blocks of space.
 The county office market has been hit hard once again by an economic downturn. The volume of commercial transactions in Westchester is down, to about 900,000 square feet at the end of the third quarter of this year, from 1.6 million square feet for the same period a year ago, according to numbers tallied by CB Richard Ellis.
 The vacancy rate countywide increased to 17 percent in the third quarter, from 16 percent at the end of the period a year ago. 
 Separately, when SG Chappaqua acquired the property, it also proposed building about 220 luxury condominiums and town houses and 56 middle-income housing units on the Reader's Digest campus. That application is wending its way through the approval process and a decision is expected sometime in the next year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Reader's Digest campus in Chappaqua, N.Y. The magazine has been there since 1939.
 The boardroom, left, and empty office space formerly occupied by the Reader's Digest. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ZONING (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); APPROVALS (55%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (54%)

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (90%); CBRE GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



651 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; WINES OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Champagnes Below $40? Cheers!

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
WARNING: You may assume that what you are about to read is the usual dutiful holiday roundup of Champagnes and sparkling wines. But you would be wrong. Ignore this at your own peril.
 Hmm. Wrong tone. Too grim. Not at all the light, exuberant note I'm seeking. Let me try again.
 Ah, Champagne! Ah, bubbly! Ah, the corks popping anew as we joyously stride forth into the new year!
 No, even worse. What, play it straight? Well, why not? Maybe this year the news on Champagne is too good to gussy up. 
 So, here it is. If you can afford to spend $30 to $40 a bottle on Champagne, more or less the entry-level price nowadays, you may find yourself with some seriously good wine. 
 This has not recently been the case. The base price for good Champagne was more than $40 last year. Cheaper bottles tended to be a desultory lot. But in a tasting of 20 Champagnes, priced under $40 each, the wine panel was pleasantly surprised by the elegance that we found among our favorites. 
 For the tasting Florence Fabricant and I were joined by Elisa Kwon, chief buyer at Morrell & Company, a New York wine retailer, and Rebecca Foster, a European specialist with Acid Inc. Selections, an importer and distributor.
 While generally pleased, we did have some reservations. Elisa was hoping for more complexity, while Rebecca would have liked more consistency, and Florence thought that other sorts of sparkling wines offered better values. 
 For me, these Champagnes offered a higher level of finesse and pleasure than I had expected, without the sweetness I find in less expensive bottles. Most Champagne houses put their best efforts into their vintage and prestige wines. The cheapest level of Champagne, almost always non-vintage, is too often cynically produced, made with little thought beyond how much cash it can bring in. What's changed? Let's look at recent Champagne sales and the economy.
 In 2006, Champagne shipped more than 23.15 million bottles to the United States, according to the Champagne Bureau, an industry trade group. That volume, surpassed only by the 23.96 million bottles shipped in the millennial year of 1999, reflected a growing demand, not only in the United States but worldwide. Prices rose accordingly, to the point where a lot of entry-level bottles surged past $40.
 When the bottom fell out of the economy, it also dropped out of the Champagne market. Shipments stayed strong in 2007, with more than 21.7 million bottles, but plummeted to about 17.19 million in 2008 and kept going down. In the first eight months of 2009, the Champagne Bureau said, shipments to the United States were down about 40 percent from last year. Something had to give.
 ''I think a lot of the importers got very nervous and this fall lowered prices for the big houses, especially in November and December,'' said Lorena Ascencios, the wine buyer for Astor Wines and Spirits in Greenwich Village, which has a superb selection of Champagne. 
 While that accounts for the big names that have slipped back under the $40 level, we were most excited by the smaller producers who make Champagne from grapes they grow themselves. These grower-producers did very well in our tasting, taking 4 of the top 10 spots.
 None of these came from the ranks of the grower-producer stars, like Larmandier-Bernier, Egly-Ouriet, Rene Geoffroy, Ulysse Collin and Camille Saves, who have largely left the $40 mark in the dust. While some grower-producers have attempted to keep prices down, trying at the least to counter the effect of the falling dollar, they don't have the sort of wiggle room necessary to match discounts given by the bigger brands. Nonetheless, since our tasting, I've seen prices come down for good grower-producers who were not in our selection, like Pierre Gimonnet and Pierre Peters.
 But enough economics. The wine is the thing. And the good news for consumers is that the pioneering efforts by importers like Terry Theise to bring these grower-producers into the United States has paid off so well in the last 10 years that many more importers are identifying small Champagne producers for the American market. 
 These include names like Joel Falmet, who farms around 16 acres in the Cote des Bar region, the southernmost growing area in the Champagne appellation. While the Cote des Bar has historically been the least prestigious region within Champagne, some of its producers are now making names for themselves in the United States, like Cedric Bouchard, Fleury and Serge Mathieu. 
 The Falmet Brut Tradition was our top-rated wine. We found it full of lively energy, with complex flavors of flowers, minerals, citrus and herbs, and with more finesse than you generally find in Champagnes dominated by the pinot noir grape.
 Two other grower-producers from the Cote des Bar made our list. Our No. 5 bottle was the Brut Tradition from Christian Etienne, which was rich, round and full of fruit, yet beautifully balanced. Our No. 8 Champagne was the Grande Cuvee from Moutard, which showed its 100 percent pinot noir character in its rich, full-bodied texture and ripe fruit flavors. 
 Our best value was Les 7 Crus from Agrapart & Fils, another grower-producer. Agrapart is in the Cote des Blancs, which is chardonnay country, so naturally this was a blanc de blancs, made entirely out of chardonnay. It is fresh and balanced, with just the sort of finesse you would expect to see in a good blanc de blancs, and at $28 it was a great deal.
 Personally, I love the individuality and distinctiveness I find in many grower-producer Champagnes. But I recognize that unless you live near a wine shop with a deep Champagne selection, or have access to one through the Internet, these labels can be hard to find. Fortunately, some of the bigger names did very well, too.
 One of them, the Louis Roederer Brut Premier, was our No. 2 bottle. It is a perennial favorite of mine, though this is the first time in a few years that I'm seeing it for under $40. It was ripe and rich, yet showed the balance and elegance I've come to expect in Roederer Champagnes.
 Our No. 4 bottle was the Henriot Brut Souverain, full, rich and creamy, with surprisingly ripe tropical fruit flavors. Yet it was dry and balanced. And our No. 7 bottle was the Brut La Francaise, from Taittinger, an often underrated producer. It was both fine and elegant, if that's not redundant, with a mellow mineral and citrus flavor.
 The Nicolas Feuillatte Brut was our No. 9 bottle. It's by no means a complex Champagne, but it was fresh and lively. The Brut Reserve from Pol Roger, another big name, came in at No. 10. It's a far cry from a vintage Pol Roger, but a decent bottle nonetheless, with lightness and elegance. 
 Obviously, not all the big names made our cut. We rejected Veuve Clicquot Brut and Charles Heidsieck Brut Reserve. Surprisingly, to me, because I think they are top quality producers, we also rejected the Deutz Brut Classic and the Duval-Leroy Brut. I would still consider them, because I've had too many good bottles of each. 
 Nor did all the smaller producers do well. We rejected the Cuvee Sainte-Anne from Chartogne-Taillet -- I liked the floral aroma and gentle chalky flavors, but the rest of the panel disagreed -- and the Petraea Brut from Raymond Boulard, a producer whose wines often seem disjointed.
 But the good news is, the under $40 category offers better choices this year than it has in a while. Of course, $30 to $40 is still not cheap, but it's pretty much as cheap as good Champagne gets. And that's the straight talk. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BETTER BUBBLES: Champagnes under $40 show new finesse. (pg.D1)
 PHOTO (pg.D9) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN NEVILLE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (87%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); HOME PRICES (75%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); RETAILERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



652 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Bouquets and Gift Baskets Together

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
THE name 1-800-Flowers.com is already something of an anachronism: not since the early part of this decade has the company's signature phone number played more than a supporting role, last year accounting for less than 20 percent of orders. 
 The rest of the name could soon be a misnomer as well. Earlier this month the company began showing its first TV commercial urging customers to send a holiday-themed gift basket, with nary a mention of flowers to be heard.
 It's a small difference that signals a big shift at the company: away from its namesake flower market, which relies on just a handful of holidays for most of its business (Mother's Day and Valentine's Day, specifically) and largely excludes half the population (namely, men). Instead, the company is aiming at the $16 billion gift basket industry, which is proving a consistent, year-round performer even in tough times. 
 ''We've always been in the gift basket business,'' said the chief executive, Jim McCann, ''but not to the degree that we see ourselves getting into it.'' 
 Last month, 1-800-Flowers.com, which began 33 years ago as simply 1-800-Flowers and is based in Carle Place, N.Y., quietly unveiled a new brand, 1-800-Baskets.com, and redesigned its Web site to give that brand equal billing. This month, the company's holiday ad campaign begins a year-round marketing push that could make gift baskets the dominant source of revenue for 1-800-Flowers.com by the end of the coming decade. (It accounts for 33 percent of revenue now, compared with 58 percent from flowers.)
 To the casual observer, there is little to differentiate the new 1-800-Flowers.com holiday commercials from the company's usual fourth-quarter fare. A woman dealing with the stress of the holidays -- shopping, crowds, tourists -- arrives home to find a 1-800-Flowers.com delivery man waiting for her, which makes her smile. The difference comes when Mr. McCann appears on camera in one of two ads: instead of imploring viewers to send a bouquet, as he normally does this time of year, he suggests a ''festive holiday sleigh'' filled with chocolates. 
 The other commercial is more customary, with Mr. McCann recommending a centerpiece made of poinsettias. But the tag line for the entire effort, ''Give That Warm, Fuzzy Holiday Feeling,'' was intended to move the company away from an association with flowers and toward the notion of gift-giving in general. The ads were made by SapientNitro, an independent agency in New York. 
 ''What's great about it is that that warm fuzzy feeling is true whether you give somebody flowers or a gift basket or chocolates or baked goods or any other kind of gift, even a virtual gift,'' said Lewis Goldman, senior vice president for marketing at 1-800-Flowers.com.
 Virtual gifts figure prominently in the company's holiday plans as well. A new Facebook app allows people to send mystery gifts to friends on the site that remained secret until Dec. 21 (the gift turned out to be a discount on orders from 1800flowers.com).
 There is also an iPhone app that allows people to send ''warm fuzzies'' customized with their photos to friends' mobile devices.
 Another virtual promotion centers on the company's Fannie May brand, which makes chocolates. Customers can go to YourDancingChocolate.com and create customized videos of dancing chocolates to send to friends, similar to Office Max's popular Elf Yourself program, but without photos.
 Come January, the company will drop the word ''holiday'' from the tag line for its first ''everyday'' advertising campaign, which will focus on the full range of 1-800-Flowers.com products, which now include popcorn, chocolates and gourmet cookies (all of which are available in gift baskets).
 ''I think the food gift business gives us a great deal more flexibility, with events and more occasions to target than just the flower business,'' Mr. McCann said. Gift baskets are also less prone to quality problems and can be sold at lower prices than flowers, which make them popular in a tough economy. 
 ''I think the baskets business, ours and others, will benefit from people trading down on more expensive gifts,'' he said.
 The shift comes on the heels of the company's first year-over-year revenue decline, from $739 million in the 2008 fiscal year to $714 million in 2009. Mr. McCann said the decline was an inevitable result of the recession, but one that could be buffeted in the future by placing more of the company's fortunes in baskets. 
 The aggressive move into that category was foreshadowed last year when the company paid $36 million to acquire the gift basket company DesignPac. That company's processing plant, in Illinois, is now the hub of 1-800-Flowers.com's gift basket business.
 Acquiring that infrastructure was essential to the company's diversification plans, as the logistics for sending gift baskets differ significantly from sending flowers. 1-800-Flowers.com can guarantee same-day delivery for most of its flowers by relying on a network of local florists who provide and deliver the bouquets. The system works because florists can generally be expected to have the necessary flowers in stock to recreate the 1-800-Flowers.com products.
 Gift baskets, however, require more specific items that local retailers can't be expected to have in stock at all times. Hence 1-800-Flowers.com cannot guarantee same-day delivery on most of its basket offerings. At least not yet. Mr. McCann said the company was working on a program where vendors nationwide would be sent the raw materials for baskets in advance and would only have to provide ''fresh'' elements like fruits and flowers. 
 Logistical issues aside, Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for the NPD Group, a market research firm, said that gift baskets were a logical extension for 1-800-Flowers.com, and that now was the time for the company to diversify. 
 ''It's like a restaurant that serves hamburgers putting chicken on the menu,'' he said, particularly when hamburger goes out of style. 
 He did note, however, that consumers seemed ready to spend on romance -- and flowers -- again. 
 ''The consumer is getting to the point where he can't go another year without putting romance back into the equation,'' he said, adding that 2010 would be ''the year of recovery'' for the flower business. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In commercials for 1-800-Flowers.com, the chief executive, Jim McCann, suggests gift baskets as a holiday gift, instead of sending flowers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLORISTS (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: 1-800-FLOWERS.COM INC (94%)

TICKER: FWC (FRA) (94%); FLWS (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (94%); NAICS453110 FLORISTS (94%); SIC5992 FLORISTS (94%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



653 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: A Hopeful Sign for Manhattan's Shaky Office Market

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
The coming year is almost certain to be brutal for the commercial real estate market in New York. More landlords will be unable to hang onto their buildings or refinance their mortgages, swelling the inventory of distressed properties.
 But though rents in Manhattan office buildings are expected to continue falling and the vacancy rate is expected to increase, real estate specialists say that the panic has subsided and that some investors are prepared to bet on the long-term future of the market.
As one hopeful sign, some analysts cite the recent purchase by the real estate investment trust SL Green Realty, Manhattan's largest office landlord, of a construction mortgage for 510 Madison Avenue, an empty new Midtown office building at 53rd Street, which is being developed by the father-and-son team of Harry and William Macklowe. 
 Conceived in headier times before the Macklowes lost most of their real estate empire, the slender 30-story glass tower has floors of 10,000 square feet and was intended for hedge fund operators. 
 At an investors' conference on Dec. 7, before the 510 Madison loan acquisition was announced, Marc Holliday, SL Green's chief executive, said that although New York had lost 81,000 office jobs and could lose as many as 45,000 more, ''I can now confidently say that the worst is behind us.'' He predicted that the vacancy rate, now 13 percent, would not exceed 15 percent. 
 SL Green's decision to buy this loan ''speaks volumes about management's more optimistic view on both leasing and building values,'' Michael Knott, a REIT analyst at Green Street Advisors (which is unrelated to SL Green), said in a recent report. 
 It is a significant turnaround for SL Green, which has issued new equity and sold weaker assets during the past year to strengthen its balance sheet. ''Six months ago, this company was trying to stay in business,'' said Ross T. Nussbaum, a REIT analyst for UBS. ''Now they are on the prowl again for opportunities.''
 If the loan purchase shows that SL Green is hopeful about Manhattan's recovery, it also suggests that the company is prepared to engage in a bare-knuckles battle with Harry Macklowe, one of the city's most litigious property owners.
 SL Green did not disclose the purchase price for the 510 Madison loan or make anyone available for an interview, but other executives familiar with the deal say the company paid the original lender, Union Labor Life Insurance Company, $170 million for the $267.5 million mortgage. The discount was modest, however, because SL Green will have to dole out $70 million or more to complete the building and cover leasing costs and the creation of office interiors.
 Several brokers and analysts said the company had not bought the loan simply to collect mortgage payments because the low returns would not have justified the risk. Instead, they say, SL Green's sole goal is to foreclose on the Macklowes and gain possession of the building. ''They didn't invest in this loan to get a coupon return,'' said one Wall Street analyst, who said his company prohibits him from speaking publicly about a deal he has not written about. 
 In addition to angling for 510 Madison, SL Green also expects to assume ownership of 100 Church Street, a 1.1 million-square-foot building near the World Trade Center, which is more than half vacant. SL Green bought three mezzanine loans for the building for $41 million in 2007 and has operated it since last month, when the previous landlord, the Sapir Organization, withdrew a lawsuit seeking to block foreclosure. 
 Among the reasons the building has fared so poorly, Steven M. Durels, SL Green's leasing director, told investors, was ''a seriously flawed lobby renovation, which included a spraying water fountain and more than 30 hideous crystal chandeliers.''
 SL Green, which expects to spend $20 million to reposition the building, ''will have to work some leasing magic'' to protect its investment in 100 Church, Mr. Knott said.
 If SL Green succeeds in wresting 510 Madison from the Macklowes, the company will own the building for about $750 to $800 a square foot, including foreclosure and other costs. The Macklowes, who began assembling their site in the late 1990s, paid $440 million, or $1,200 a foot, in land and development costs. If they lose the building to SL Green, which owns interests in 27 office buildings in Manhattan, the Macklowes will not get the lucrative management and leasing contracts that a conventional lender might have given them.
 The Macklowes may find themselves backed into a corner by restrictions preventing them from offering space in the building at the market rent. A clause in most loans bars borrowers from leasing space at levels below the rates agreed on when the loan was issued. SL Green is expected to play hardball and not approve any leases below the agreed-upon rates negotiated by the Macklowes with the original lender. The Macklowes, who are certain to fight back in court, had no public comment.
 When the economy faltered, only one tenant, Jay Goldman & Company, a hedge fund, had committed to occupy space, at $135 a foot. The company has sued to back out of the lease, saying that the building was not delivered on time -- a delay that the Macklowes attributed to an electrical fire in February. The watchmaker Tourneau is seeking to rescind a lease for ground-floor retail space at $550 a square foot. 
 At the peak of the market, some tenants were paying $150 a foot or more to be in the most prestigious buildings. In 2009, only 16 leases were signed at annual rents above $100 a square foot, compared with 105 such deals in 2008 and 107 in 2007, said Ben Friedland, a senior vice president at CB Richard Ellis. In 2008, the average high-end deal was $126 a square foot, but this year, the average dropped to $109, Mr. Friedland said. ''With some exceptions for unique opportunities, the top of the market is now between $100 and $110 a square foot,'' he said.
 One of those exceptions was Banco Itau of Brazil's recent lease of $130 a foot at the General Motors Building. 
 Unlike that building, 510 Madison does not overlook Central Park, but brokers say it has many features that boutique financial services firms find attractive, including space that is virtually column-free, providing clear sight lines between the head traders and the teams out on the floor; floor-to-ceiling glass; and the sleek, minimalist look for which the Macklowes are known. 
 Jeffrey W. Baker, an executive managing director of Savills, a real estate investment banking firm, said he tried to buy the building for a foreign client before the economic crisis. ''It's going to compete head-to-head with the Seagram Building,'' Mr. Baker said, referring to the modernist tower on Park Avenue and 53rd Street. ''It's going to be viewed as one of the very top buildings in Manhattan.'' 
 For now, it may be tough to attract new tenants because of the uncertainty over the building's ownership. Robert M. White Jr., the president of Real Capital Analytics, a research firm, said the building would be more attractive to tenants without the Macklowes, whose future has seemed uncertain ever since they had to surrender seven buildings they bought in early 2007. ''Its biggest obstacle for leasing has been the ownership,'' Mr. White said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SL Green Realty bought the construction mortgage for the office tower at510 Madison Avenue, which is being developed by Macklowe Properties.
 SL Green also expects to assume ownership of 100 Church Street, a 1.1 million-square-foot building, which is more than half vacant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

COMPANY: UNION LABOR LIFE INSURANCE CO (61%); SL GREEN REALTY CORP (57%); GREEN STREET ADVISORS INC (53%)

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (61%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



654 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: History Made, Mayor-Elect Focuses on Local Concerns

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: NEWTON, Mass. 

 BODY:
Setti Warren was a toddler out with his mother one day in the 1970s when white teenagers hurled rocks and racial epithets their way, prompting his outraged father to call City Hall.
 Almost four decades later, Mr. Warren will be inaugurated next Friday as Newton's first African-American mayor, taking charge of a city where blacks still make up only 3 percent of the population but where skin color played virtually no role, he said, in his race against a white opponent. 
 ''I'm actually really proud of that,'' he said last week, sitting in his empty transition office near the Massachusetts Turnpike. ''People were willing to look beyond race in making their decision, and that's a tribute to Newton and its progressive nature.'' 
 Race may not have been a factor in Mr. Warren's election, but his victory has put this affluent suburb of Boston in a unique position nationally: its residents are the first to have elected a black mayor, governor and president.
 Despite that distinction, Mr. Warren, 39, clearly sees his mandate in down-to-earth terms. Like President Obama and Gov. Deval Patrick, he faces a budget crisis, a restive constituency and an impatience for new ideas. And while he does not rule out a run for higher office -- his fans include Mr. Obama, who called last month to congratulate him, and Bill Clinton, his former boss -- Mr. Warren must first succeed in prosaic municipal politics.
 Newton, a brainy and self-assured city of 83,000, is mired in budget woes, not least because of a project the state treasurer has tartly labeled a Taj Mahal: a new state-of-the-art high school whose price is approaching $200 million due to its complex design and unexpectedly high construction costs.
 Good schools are by far the top priority here, but the project's spiraling cost -- the highest ever for a Massachusetts public school -- has outraged even the staunchest supporters of education spending. Mr. Warren may have to raise taxes or cut services to help pay for the high school. 
 ''He's not naive about the potential jam he's in,'' said Dan Payne, a Democratic consultant and longtime Newton resident. ''But he's convinced he can harness the talents of the citizenry and make the city function smoothly again.'' 
 Mr. Warren's father is an administrator at Northeastern University who worked for former Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, the 1988 Democratic presidential nominee. His mother, now retired, was a social worker. He worked on Mr. Clinton's advance team and in the White House social office, ran the New England division of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and served as deputy state director for Senator John Kerry, who was a groomsman in Mr. Warren's wedding.
 While serving a year in Iraq as an intelligence officer in the Navy Reserve, Mr. Warren decided to return to his roots. 
 ''It just affirmed and reinforced my belief in public service,'' Mr. Warren said of his deployment. ''What I feel most passionate about is making people's lives better, and I wanted to do it right here in my own community -- particularly after experiencing Iraq.'' 
 He lives in his childhood home with his wife, Tassy, who works on child development at Harvard, and their year-old daughter, Abigail. He announced his candidacy after returning from Iraq in October 2008, then introduced himself to Newton voters by knocking on more than 11,000 doors. 
 ''There's no doubt people wanted to change the direction the city was going in,'' said Mr. Warren, who coincidentally ended up with about 11,000 votes -- 463 more than his opponent and fellow Democrat, State Representative Ruth B. Balser. ''But I also think that my direct contact with people was one of the major reasons for my success.''
 He ran on the premise that Newton's stellar reputation was slipping because of mismanagement -- a message that apparently shook voters who had paid top dollar to buy homes and raise children here. He wants to generate revenue by seeking larger payments in lieu of taxes from local nonprofit institutions, like Boston College, and curtailing the cost of health benefits for city employees and retirees, which he said were growing by 11 percent annually. 
 Mr. Warren said the high school project, whose price has nearly doubled since 2003 and comes out to more than $100,000 per student, had been ''completely mismanaged.'' Voters protested last year, rejecting a plan to override a cap on property tax increases; many still resent the project and the bad publicity it has drawn.
 ''People here want the schools to be first rate,'' Mr. Payne said, ''but they don't necessarily want the school buildings to be the most expensive in America.'' 
 There are no term limits here, and the outgoing mayor -- David Cohen, who did not seek re-election amid the high school controversy -- has served since 1998. Mr. Warren hinted he was planning on at least two terms. 
 ''It's really going to take a chief executive six or eight years to move this city in the right direction,'' he said. 
 He started this month by firing Mr. Cohen's entire executive staff and several other officials. 
 Mr. Patrick, who took Mr. Warren to lunch shortly after the election, advised him to engage the broadest possible spectrum of constituents, including those who had opposed his candidacy. 
 ''With this economic environment, it's tough to gain consensus on any level,'' Mr. Warren said. ''He encouraged me to really reach out to as many people as I can.'' 
 In a place like Newton -- replete with academics, psychiatrists and other overachievers -- that could be dangerous, Mr. Payne said. 
 ''Everyone here thinks they're an expert,'' he said, citing residents who built their own architectural models to challenge the design of the new high school. ''There are no people here who just say, 'I'll leave it up to City Hall.' ''
 Told of that warning, Mr. Warren laughed. 
 ''It's not going to be easy,'' he said. ''But I think the test of good, strong leadership is tapping into that talent and being able to maximize it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Deval Patrick and Mayor-Elect Setti Warren, left, waved from inside Johnny's Luncheonette in Newton, Mass., where Mr. Warren will be inaugurated Jan. 1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENA OSSI/OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR)
 Setti Warren, 39, said he decided to run for mayor in his hometown while serving a year in Iraq with the Navy Reserve. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELE MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: A city of 83,000, Newton faces severe budget problems. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); BUDGETS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); POLITICS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (71%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (62%); EDUCATION FUNDING (62%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); DEVAL PATRICK (71%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



655 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Obama Asks Small Banks To Raise Business Lending

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama met with bankers from smaller community banks on Tuesday to urge them to increase lending to small businesses and vowed to help the process by cutting regulatory red tape. 
 ''The pendulum might have swung too far in the direction of not lending,'' Mr. Obama told reporters after meeting with 12 bankers from across the country.
 ''If we can get that balance right, there are businesses and communities out there that are ready to grow,'' he said.
 Last week, Mr. Obama met with the heads of the country's largest lenders after publicly castigating big bankers as fat cats, and earlier in December there was a White House jobs meeting.
 ''There remains enormous opportunities as we come out of this recession for businesses to start growing again and to start hiring again,'' Mr. Obama said.
 Banks contend that the collapse of the real estate market, which set off a global financial crisis last year, has eroded the value of collateral that aspiring borrowers can offer as security for new loans.
 In addition, they say bank regulators are being tough on them to tighten lending standards, which officials now say were too lax and contributed to poor lending decisions that helped fuel the property boom and bust.
 ''Community banks continue to face overly aggressive examinations that can hinder small-business lending,'' said the Independent Community Bankers of America, eight of whose members attended the White House meeting.
 Mr. Obama said he would do what he could to help with regulatory issues, which he acknowledged might constrain some banks that otherwise have a solid capital base and would like to lend. But he stressed that the White House could not issue direct orders to independent banking regulators.
 ''We are looking to see if there is a possibility to cut some of the red tape,'' he said. ''I think we do have an obligation to make sure that the regulatory schemes that we come up with are more streamlined and more efficient and send clear signals to the banks involved.
 ''The more we are making sure that banks aren't competing by how obscure their fine print is, but rather competing on the basis of the quality of their service and the terms of their loans, the better off consumers are going to be,'' Mr. Obama said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''There are businesses and communities out there that are ready to grow,'' President Obama said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY BANKS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%)

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



656 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Thousands May Incorrectly Be Using Stimulus Tax Breaks

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Thousands of American taxpayers incorrectly claimed more than $500 million in tax benefits under the Obama administration's tax break for first-time home buyers, a government watchdog report said Tuesday. 
 That finding was one part of a report by the inspector general for tax administration that said the Internal Revenue Service does not know whether the majority of the $312 billion in tax breaks available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act are being claimed legitimately. 
 The report said that for businesses and individual taxpayers claiming tax relief under the 2009 act, ''the IRS is unable to verify eligibility for the majority of Recovery Act benefits at the time a tax return is processed.''
 The finding is likely to stoke debate in Congress and among analysts over the merits of the package, a centerpiece of the Obama administration's economic recovery plan.
 The act, passed by Congress in February as a means of stimulating the ailing economy, provides $252 billion in tax breaks to individuals and $74 billion to businesses. The overall act, of which tax breaks are the showpiece component, was designed to pump $787 billion into the economy. Tax benefits for individuals include first-time homebuyer credits, residential energy improvements, and the ''Making Work Pay'' credit designed to reduce tax bills for working families. For businesses, they include credits for renewable energy investments, construction and accelerated depreciation and loss carrybacks, among other things.
 The report said that as of July 25, 73,799 taxpayers had incorrectly claimed $504 million in credits in the program for first-time home buyers. 
 The I.R.S. did not comment on the 17-page report. The inspector general for tax administration said that it was conducting further analyses to determine how much was being improperly claimed in each tax benefit category.
 The watchdog agency also said Tuesday in a separate report that an I.R.S. program that has issued more than 14 million taxpayer identification numbers to immigrants is plagued with fraud that costs the government billions of dollars in improper tax refunds.
 The report found that nearly 70 percent of such numbers should not have been issued because their applicants provided murky documentation. The numbers, called individual taxpayer identification numbers, are typically used by immigrants who are not American citizens or by permanent residents who have entered the United States legally. 
 The identification numbers are valuable because they can be used to claim federal tax refunds and certain child tax credits. They cannot be used to claim social security payments or the earned income tax credit, a $49 billion federal program to low-income workers.
 The numbers, first issued in 1996, do not change an immigrant's legal status or permit employment. 
 The I.R.S. has said that between 1996 and 2003, the number holders reported owing taxes of $50 billion, though it has not disclosed the size of refunds claimed.
 Based on nearly 1.2 million federal tax returns filed over 2008 and 2009, the report estimated that the fraud would cost the government more than $2 billion over five years. 
 In a written response to the report, the I.R.S. disputed its findings, saying that the sample base used was not indicative of the overall program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); DEPRECIATION (73%); FAMILY (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



657 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: The Copenhagen That Matters

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Copenhagen 

 BODY:
 As I listened to Denmark's minister of economic and business affairs describe how her country used higher energy taxes to stimulate innovation in green power and then recycled the tax revenues back to Danish industry and consumers to make it easier for them to make and buy the new clean technologies, it all sounded so, well, intelligent. It sounded as if the Danes looked at themselves after the 1973 Arab oil embargo, found that they were totally dependent on Middle East oil and put in place a long-term strategy to make Denmark energy-secure and start a new industry at the same time. 
 The more I listened to the Danish minister, Lene Espersen, the more I thought of my own country, where I've been told time and again by U.S. politicians that proposing even a 10-cent-a-gallon increase in gasoline taxes to make America more energy independent and to stimulate fuel efficiency is ''off the table,'' an act of sure political suicide. 
 Not in Denmark. So I asked the Danish minister: ''Tell me, what planet are you people from?''
 Espersen laughed. But I didn't. How long are we Americans going to go on thinking that we can thrive in the 21st century when doing the optimal things -- whether for energy, health care, education or the deficit -- are ''off the table.'' They've been banished by an ad hoc coalition of lobbyists loaded with money, loud-mouth talk-show hosts who will flame anyone who crosses them, political consultants who warn that asking Americans to do anything important but hard makes one unelectable and a citizenry that doesn't even ask for optimal anymore because it believes that optimal is impossible.
 Sorry, but there are no good ideas proven to work in other democratic/capitalist societies that we can afford to shove off our table -- not when we need to build a knowledge economy with good jobs and everyone else is trying to do the same.
 ''Already the green taxes here are quite high,'' said Espersen. ''And even though we know this is not popular with business and industry, it has made all the difference for us. It forced our businesses to become more energy efficient and innovative, and this meant that, suddenly, we were inventing things nobody else was inventing because our businesses needed to be competitive.''
 The Environmental and Energy Study Institute, a nonpartisan research center, and the Embassy of Denmark recently held a briefing on how Denmark is working to become a low-carbon economy. Here are some highlights:
 Although it still generates the majority of its electricity from coal, ''since 1990, Denmark has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 14 percent. Over the same time frame, Danish energy consumption has stayed constant and Denmark's gross domestic product has grown by more than 40 percent. Denmark is the most energy efficient country in the E.U.; due to carbon pricing, through energy taxes, carbon taxes, the 'cap and trade' system, strict building codes and energy labeling programs. Renewable resources currently supply almost 30 percent of Denmark's electricity. Wind power is the largest source of renewable electricity, followed by biomass. ... Today, Copenhagen puts only 3 percent of its waste into landfills and incinerates 39 percent to generate electricity for thousands of households.''
 The Danish government funnels energy tax revenue ''back to industry, earmarking much of it to subsidize environmental innovation,'' wrote Monica Prasad, a faculty fellow at Northwestern University's Institute for Policy Research, in a March 25, 2008, essay in this newspaper. Therefore, ''Danish firms are pushed away from carbon and pulled into environmental innovation, and the country's economy isn't put at a competitive disadvantage.'' 
 It's why Denmark, with only five million people, boasts some of the leading wind, biofuel and heating, cooling and efficiency companies in the world. Energy technologies are now 11 percent of Denmark's exports. Oil exports and energy taxes also subsidize mass transit and energy efficiency, keeping bills low for Danish consumers.
 Where do Danish politicians get the courage to do the right things -- even if painful? 
 ''We don't have a lot of resources,'' said Ida Auken, a spokeswoman for the Danish green/socialist party, S.F. ''We have a welfare state that we have to keep up, so we have to think forward all the time and not get stuck in the past. That is where we get the courage. And we have seen it work for 30 years. It is good business. Danish contractors are begging for strict standards on buildings because they know that if they can become efficient and meet them here, they can compete anywhere in the whole world.''
 My fellow Americans, the fact that the recent Copenhagen climate summit was a bust in terms of solving our energy/climate problems doesn't mean that we can ignore those problems -- or that we can ignore how individual countries, like Denmark, have effectively addressed them. With unemployment in Denmark at about 4 percent, compared with our 10 percent, maybe we should at least consider putting a few of its ideas on our table. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); GASOLINE (77%); POLITICS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (90%) DENMARK (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



658 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Americans Without Work: Reconnecting Young People

 BODY:
The House's jobs bill is an honorable effort to increase jobs among construction workers, teachers, firefighters and other adults -- hence its name, the Jobs for Main Street Act. But it is seriously deficient in one important respect. It does not do nearly enough to address the ominous shortfall of jobs among the young people who have been driven from the job market -- and marginalized economically -- in record numbers. 
 The problem is especially alarming in low-income, minority communities where the jobless rate for high school students is hovering near 90 percent.
 The part-time jobs that were once a rite of passage began to disappear rapidly at the start of this decade. According to an analysis released this week by Andrew Sum, director of Northeastern University's Center for Labor Market Studies, employment rates among teenagers have dropped nearly four times faster than the rate among adults since 2000. 
 As a consequence, he says, men 65 and older -- people old enough to be their grandfathers -- are now more likely to find work than 16- to 19-year-olds. 
 According to the analysis, the joblessness rate for teenagers generally is the highest ever since the country began keeping statistics just after World War II. Things are especially bleak for low-income black students: only 4 in 100 found work this fall. 
 This is worrisome on several counts. First, young people who do not find work tend to become discouraged early on and stop trying. They fail to develop the work force skills that make them attractive to employers, which means that they are likely to remain unemployed or underemployed well into their adult years. 
 People who do not find work in their early years also have higher dropout rates and are more likely to commit crimes -- meaning they are at higher risk of becoming permanent burdens to society. 
 Earlier this month, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a think tank representing developed nations, urged the federal government to take steps to keep young people from dropping out of the job market. Most importantly, it called on federal officials to do a better job of reaching out to ''disconnected youth'' with training and support that helps them find work.
 The House's jobs bill includes some commendable employment provisions for young people. But what's needed, Mr. Sum and others say, is a broader, coordinated stimulus plan that would reach disengaged inner-city teenagers who are increasingly being left out of the economy. 
 Given the risks of doing nothing, Congress would be wise to consider the idea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); WORLD WAR II (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



659 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: No Perk Too Small for Airlines' Top Customers

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
United States airlines have cut back on all but the most basic services in recent years -- for most passengers. 
 But for their very best customers, some airlines are providing extra perks and creating new tiers of status to make them feel special. Continental Airlines, for example, created a new top category this month, Presidential Platinum, for customers flying at least 125,000 miles and spending $30,000 a year on plane tickets. Delta Air Lines established the new Diamond level this summer for customers who earn a minimum of 125,000 miles each year. 
 Members at these levels, in addition to getting bragging rights, might be offered free access to airport clubs and automatic check-in, might get fees for extra bags waived, and might be allowed to go to the front of any line -- and sit in the front of the cabin -- even when other travelers paid more for their tickets. 
 Once inside those airline clubs, these elite fliers can get free cocktails and buffet meals, perhaps a shower, and in the case of some Delta clubs, practice time on putting greens. 
 Airlines are also studying how to create a greater sense of personalized service on board -- perhaps allowing passengers to preorder a favorite wine for an international flight or a special treat for an anniversary, or letting them designate a favorite seat on various kinds of aircraft so they sit in the same place on every flight.
 Giving special perks to the biggest spenders is an old trick used by casinos, who pamper the ''whales'' so they feel appreciated more than all the ''minnows'' that populate lower-stakes poker tables.
 Airlines must compete to hold onto these fliers because they are so valuable to their bottom line. 
 But these fliers have been hit by the recession, too. Revenue from premium travel fell 20 percent in October versus last year, according to an estimate from the International Air Transport Association, the global industry's trade group.
 Airlines are generally reluctant to discuss the number of people who are in its elite programs. Delta, which has 75 million frequent-flier club members, says it has not calculated how many qualify for the Diamond level, but notes that its top 1,000 customers each fly over 300,000 miles a year. 
 At Continental, about 20,000 travelers out of its 20 million frequent fliers qualify for the new uppermost tier.
 With the push to create even higher levels of elite programs, the gap is growing between those at the head of the line and those behind them. Charles Witt, who has earned membership in Delta's Diamond level and in United Airlines' 1K, its highest tier, said the top classes were worth the effort for the special treatment he received, like frequent upgrades and access to special hotlines.
 ''It's comforting to know when you have a canceled flight or a problem that, boom, your call is answered,'' he said. ''You never have to hear, 'Your wait time is 35 minutes.' '' 
 These new superelite tiers are in addition to programs the airlines offer for a tiny group of fliers, like Global Services at United Airlines and Concierge Key at American -- the inspiration for the exclusive club to which the character played by George Clooney aspires in the new film, ''Up in the Air.''
 Executives at Continental and Delta said they had to do something to reward travelers who had long since passed the 75,000-mile benchmark, a once-lofty goal that has become increasingly easy to attain, thanks to bonuses like those for full-fare tickets.
 Delta found that passengers routinely would book elsewhere once they had logged enough miles to make it into the 75,000-mile club. 
 The new tier ''gives them something to strive for,'' said Jeff Robertson, vice president of loyalty programs at Delta.
 Even airlines that do not offer business class or other traditional amenities are doing more for their most valued fliers. 
 Southwest Airlines has its A-list, whose members always board in the first group, do not have to go online the night before to check in and can earn companion passes that allow someone to travel with them free. 
 ''I don't care about the particular seat I get, other than I want either aisle or window -- and I want to be sure I get overhead space. Both of my criteria are assured,'' said Mo Garfinkle, a veteran airline industry consultant who is on the A-list and holds a companion pass. The pass saves him as much as $5,000 a year on tickets he would otherwise have to purchase for his wife to join him on business trips.
 But Mr. Garfinkle can find himself in line behind passengers who pay extra for Southwest's Business Select, which provides priority boarding and a special security line, features that a number of airlines like United have begun to offer for sale to any flier, not just those who earn elite status.
 This ''perks for sale'' strategy stems from airlines' need to not only fill planes but wring more money out of every flier, said Henry H. Harteveldt, an analyst at Forrester Research who follows travel trends. 
 ''Why not try to monetize it?'' Mr. Harteveldt asked of travel features. ''People will pay for this.''
 With airlines examining every feature of a flight to see if it can be sold separately -- what the industry calls unbundling -- Mr. Harteveldt said he could see a day when the carriers might sell membership in the elite tiers of their frequent-flier programs, perhaps letting passengers purchase an upgrade from silver to gold status.
 But Mark Bergsrud, senior vice president for marketing at Continental, said he was skeptical of such a strategy.
 ''It's something any company would have to be very careful with,'' he said. ''We have a public program with defined rules and almost all our customers earn their status the old-fashioned way. If you sell it to someone, you could really hurt yourself.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 22 about new frequent-flier tiers and other perks being provided by some airlines misstated the number of miles needed to achieve Continental Airlines' new top category of Presidential Platinum. It is 100,000 miles, not 125,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A flier's stack of club cards.(A1)
 Charles Witt at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington. Mr. Witt has reached the highest tier on both Delta and United. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (74%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); GAMING (69%); POKER (64%); RECESSION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (59%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (52%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



660 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Higher After Report on Home Sales

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
American stocks gained Tuesday as surprisingly strong sales of existing homes raised optimism about an economic recovery.
 The confidence in the economy drove down Treasuries prices for a second day as investors moved away from lower-risk assets. 
 And the dollar hit a two-month high against the Japanese yen and traded near a 3.5 month high against the euro as investors speculated the Federal Reserve may be forced to raise interest rates sooner than forecast.
 In the United States, existing home sales jumped 7.4 percent in November to an annual rate of 6.54 million units, the fastest pace since February 2007. Economists had expected sales at a pace of 6.25 million units.
 The housing data outweighed a disappointing final reading for third-quarter gross domestic product, which the government said expanded at an annual pace of 2.2 percent, below the 2.8 percent it had reported last month.
 ''Further improvement in the housing market is likely to lend support to the equity market as we finish the year,'' said Alan Gayle, senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Investments in Richmond, Va.
 ''The housing market has been a key concern for equity investors all this year,'' Mr. Gayle said, ''so further progress is an encouraging sign as we get ready to start 2010.''
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 50.79 7 points, or 0.49 percent, to 10,464.93, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.97 points, or 0.36 percent, to 1,118.02. The Nasdaq was up 15.01 points, or 0.67 percent, to 2,252.67.
 The S.&P. 500 briefly hit a 14-month high, but the stronger dollar limited the broader market advance and pressured sectors like energy and other natural resources.
 In Europe, the FTSE 100 in London was 34.67 points, or 0.65 percent, higher. The DAX in Frankfurt rose 15.16 points, or 0.26 percent, while the CAC-40 in Paris was 26.32 points, or 0.65 percent, higher.
 Crude oil prices fell 11 cents, or 0.15 percent, to $73.61 a barrel, pressured by the stronger dollar and OPEC's decision to keep output goals steady.
 Higher Treasuries yields and expectations of a stronger economic rebound allowed the dollar to keep strengthening against major currencies.
 Against the Japanese yen, the dollar firmed 0.58 percent 91.68. Earlier in the session, it hit 91.86 yen, its strongest level since late October.
 The euro dropped to $1.4219, according to Reuters data, the lowest level since early September. It was last down 0.2 percent on the day at $1.4254.
 ''The stronger housing market number helped dollar bulls regain control,'' said Kathy Lien, director of currency research at GFT Forex in New York. ''Any negative sentiment from the U.S. G.D.P. report was offset by another strong month for existing home sales.''
 The economic optimism drove investors away from Treasuries for the second consecutive day, but analysts said the moves were exaggerated by very thin volumes in a holiday-shortened week.
 The Treasury yield curve remained at record steep levels, with the spread between two-year note yields and 10-year note yields holding at its widest on record at 285 basis points. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (91%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); EURO (77%); STATISTICS (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); NATURAL RESOURCES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



661 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: No Change In Oil Goal, But Cartel Is Watchful

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed on Tuesday to maintain its production targets, an expression of satisfaction that prices are high enough to ensure sufficient revenues but not suppress a nascent recovery.
 OPEC acted at a gathering in Luanda, Angola, that was generally uneventful. But signs indicated that some countries were unhappy over the slipping compliance with production goals, which is threatening to reduce oil prices.
 ''We are calling for member compliance,'' Shukri Ghanem, head of Libya's National Oil Corporation, told reporters at the end of the meeting. 
 OPEC cut production a year ago by 4.2 million barrels a day to prop up oil prices that were in a tailspin as financial markets seized up and economic activity declined rapidly. Because OPEC producers are responsible for more than a third of the world's supply, the strategy has largely worked.
 Oil prices that had tumbled to as low as $33 a barrel a year ago recovered to $80 this fall. Prices have slid to slightly more than $70 a barrel in recent weeks, in part because Nigeria and some other OPEC members have been pumping more than their production quotas, and American and European oil demand has remained weak. Oil prices settled Tuesday at $74.40 a barrel, up 68 cents.
 ''Compliance will continue to deteriorate, as will price,'' Lawrence J. Goldstein, a director of the Energy Policy Research Foundation, predicted. ''Almost every country that can violate the quota is doing so.'' 
 OPEC's output has been creeping up in recent months and is about 1.8 million barrels a day above the output goal of 24.8 million barrels. Nigeria, for example, has been able to increase production by about half a million barrels a day because of fewer acts of sabotage.
 The OPEC goal has been largely maintained by Saudi production cuts. Nevertheless Saudi Arabia, the most powerful member of OPEC with the largest reserves, appears generally content with current output and prices.
 The Saudi Arabian oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, was quoted on Tuesday at the meeting as characterizing current prices as ''perfect, perfect.''
 Gasoline prices in the United States have been relatively stable, and have declined in the holiday period. The average national price for a gallon of regular gasoline on Tuesday was slightly more than $2.58, nearly 6 cents less than a month ago. 
 OPEC says oil demand has begun to recover, although it predicts demand will remain soft through June 2010.
 ''It is not yet clear how strong or durable the recovery might be,'' OPEC said in a closing statement that also asserted that the 12-member organization stood ready to act to stabilize markets if necessary.
 But in recent days geopolitical events, not the world economy, have raised prices a few dollars a barrel on world markets. 
 Nigerian rebels staged their first significant attack in several months on a pipeline used by Chevron and Royal Dutch Shell. In Iraq, insurgents sabotaged a pipeline servicing an export terminal, and Iranian troops briefly occupied a part of a border field in an act of saber rattling that some specialists speculated was a warning to the United States and an effort to increase crude prices. 
 ''It reminds you that most of the places where oil comes from are located in politically unstable places in the world,'' said Addison A. Armstrong, senior director for market research at Tradition Energy, an energy broker in Stamford, Conn. ''I don't think the market is adequately pricing in the kinds of disruptions that could occur over the next year, like a military strike against Iran's nuclear facilities.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); CARTELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA (94%); NIGERIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



662 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Americans Without Work: Putting Jobs First

 BODY:
The $154 billion jobs bill passed by the House last week will allow the 217 Democrats who voted for it to tell their constituents that they care about unemployment. But it's unlikely to do much else. The Senate will not address the issue until next year. By then, midterm election politics will be coming into full swing, with Democrats calling for more jobs and Republicans fanning voter fears about deficits. 
 The real challenge -- for President Obama and for Congressional Democrats -- is to not get bogged down in that debate but rather to make job creation the undisputed priority for 2010. 
 Right now, finding people work is a more urgent task than reducing the deficit. Indeed, deficits cannot be tamed without more jobs to generate more tax revenue. A government boost to job growth is also necessary to help replace the millions of jobs that have been lost in the recession. 
 Perhaps most important, without a revival in hiring, the economy itself -- which appears to be recovering -- could regress. A second contraction could be worse than the first, bringing a downward spiral of falling wages, falling prices and even higher unemployment. With interest rates at rock bottom and other market interventions already deployed, policy makers would have few weapons left. 
 The House bill has strong features. It would extend unemployment benefits, now set to expire in February, through June. It would also increase aid to states and local governments. These are the bedrocks of any jobs program because, by increasing demand, they help preserve and create jobs. 
 But with joblessness at record levels, unemployment benefits should be extended even further -- to the end of the year. Similarly, the stimulus plan for the states should be extended well into 2011; otherwise, federal aid will dry up midway through most states' fiscal years, leaving them vulnerable to a relapse. 
 The House bill has other good provisions, including programs to spur small business lending and increase infrastructure spending. But what is most needed now is presidential leadership to get these and other job-creation programs enacted. Piecemeal measures -- serial extensions of jobless benefits, for instance -- are vital, but they are unlikely to inspire the enthusiasm and confidence necessary for a self-sustaining recovery to take hold. 
 Focusing on job creation does not mean playing down the deficit. President Obama must assure the nation -- and its foreign lenders -- that major legislative initiatives like health care reform will be credibly paid for and that Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy will not be extended beyond their scheduled expiration in 2010. And at some point, he will have to ask for new taxes and more spending restraint. But, for the moment, jobs come first. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RECESSION (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (62%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (61%); INTEREST RATES (51%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



663 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Latino Leaders Use Churches In Census Bid

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Fearing that millions of illegal immigrants may not be counted in the 2010 census, Latino leaders are mobilizing a nationwide drive to urge Hispanics to participate in the survey, including an intense push this week in evangelical Christian churches. 
 Latino groups contend that there was an undercount of nearly one million Latinos in the 2000 census, affecting the drawing of Congressional districts and the distribution of federal money. Hispanic organizations are far better organized for next year's census, but they say that if illegal immigrants -- an estimated eight million of whom are Latino -- are not included, the undercount could be much greater.
 One study suggests that Congressional delegations in eight states with large Hispanic populations could grow if all Latinos -- the nation's largest minority at some 47 million -- are counted.
 But the obstacles to an accurate count are significant. Many illegal immigrants are likely to be reluctant to fill out a government form that asks for their names, birthdates and telephone numbers. And the count comes three years into an immigration crackdown that was initiated by President George W. Bush but has continued apace, though less visibly, under President Obama. 
 Several of the nation's largest associations of Hispanic evangelical churches have agreed to join the census campaign. But it has caused dissension among others, with one evangelical pastor leading a call for a boycott of the census, saying it would put pressure on the Obama administration and on Congress to grant legal status to illegal immigrants. 
 Some Roman Catholic leaders, moreover, have said they are reluctant to urge Latino parishioners to participate without greater assurances from the administration that illegal immigrants will not be identified or detained through the census.
 The Constitution calls for all residents to be counted, and last month the Senate rejected a measure by Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, that would have included only United States citizens in the official tally. 
 In October, census officials said they would not ask the Department of Homeland Security to suspend immigration raids during the census period, reversing a policy from 2000, when an immigration moratorium was observed. But census officials say there is no change in a longstanding policy that they do not share identity data with the Department of Homeland Security or any other agency. 
 Latino political leaders see full participation in the census as the culmination of heightened activism that began in the spring of 2006, when hundreds of thousands of Latinos marched in the streets to protest legislation then in Congress that would have toughened laws against illegal immigration. In 2007 they held a nationwide campaign to have Latino immigrants become United States citizens. That was followed last year with a huge voter registration drive. 
 ''We want to tap into that same spirit,'' said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, known as Naleo, a bipartisan group that is a main organizer of the census drive. ''We have to go back to everybody and say, 'Just as you marched, just as you naturalized, just as you voted, now you have to be counted.' '' 
 One strategy is to encourage Latino immigrants to return the census forms by mail, rather than waiting for a census taker's knock on the door, which could frighten illegal immigrants wary of immigration agents. 
 To that end, groups like Naleo, the National Council of La Razaand others are moving to tap the expanding social networks and the power of persuasion of evangelical churches, which have seen huge growth among Latinos in the last decade. At a recent meeting with religious leaders in Miami, Naleo unveiled a poster for churches to use during the Christmas season to talk up the census. It depicts Mary and Joseph, recalling that they went to Bethlehem to participate in a census.
 ''Asi nacio Jesus,'' the poster says. ''That's how Jesus was born.'' 
 Evangelical leaders said last Wednesday that the poster would be displayed in more than 7,000 evangelical churches this week.
 Among the evangelicals to embrace the effort is the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez Jr., a pastor from California who is president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, which includes more than 25,000 evangelical churches. 
 ''I believe we pastors have a moral responsibility to educate our flock in an action that will help our communities move forward on the path of political empowerment,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. 
 A new ally in Miami is Pastor Jose Victor Dugand, who can be found most days in his church in the southwest part of the city singing Christian rock music with a Latin lilt and expounding bilingually on the Bible.
 Even on hectic weeknights, worshipers come by the hundreds to pray at his Ekklesia Global Church, bringing worries about lost jobs in South Florida's battered economy as well as fears of immigration authorities. Lately, Mr. Dugand tells his followers they can increase their political influence and draw federal money to the community by participating in the census. 
 ''I think we need to come to the light -- we need to be counted,'' he said. ''Right now, I believe the government is totally off in the figures. We need to have a number that is closer to reality, so we can have better representation politically.'' 
 When illegal immigrants in his church express worries, Mr. Dugand advises them that they should trust the census. ''I tell them, 'Don't flee, don't just escape,' '' he said. ''Help us build something here for our children.''
 But the Rev. Miguel Angel Rivera, a New Jersey pastor who heads a smaller coalition of evangelical clergy, has called for a boycott of the census. 
 ''We need to empower the undocumented immigrants by asking them not to participate,'' Mr. Rivera said, ''as a way to protest the lack of commitment from this Congress to do what is right and moral, which is comprehensive immigration reform.'' 
 He is touring the country with his boycott call, and he has gained the support of some community leaders, including Nativo Lopez, a Mexican-American activist in Los Angeles. 
 Nearly 12 million Latinos voted in November 2008, an increase of two million votes over 2004, according to an analysis by Andres Ramirez, a researcher at NDN, a Democratic advocacy organization. Now, in the first census since Hispanics passed blacks to become the second-largest population group in the United States, Hispanics want to extend that voting power with a census count that would support more elected representatives for their communities. 
 An analysis by NDN and America's Voice, an immigrant advocacy group, projected that a full count of Hispanics would lead to a significant redrawing of the Congressional map, with six states picking up one Congressional seat (Florida, Georgia, Nevada, Oregon, South Carolina and Utah), while Arizona would add two and Texas as many as four. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pastor Jose Victor Dugand, of the Ekklesia Global Church in Miami, urging his congregation to participate in the 2010 census. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Wuanda Medina, left, pastor of Iglesia el Faro, prayed with other Hispanic religious leaders on Nov. 20 at a census meeting.
 Arturo Vargas is among the Hispanic leaders urging participation in the 2010 census. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CENSUS (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%)

PERSON: DAVID VITTER (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



664 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Is There A Real McCain?

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 The Maverick's buck stops here.
 John McCain is no longer the media's delight and his party's burr, bucking convention with infectious relish.
 The man used to be such a constructive independent that some of his Republican Senate colleagues called him a traitor. Now he's such a predictable obstructionist that he's in the just-say-no vanguard with the same conservatives who used to despise him. 
 On Tuesday afternoon on the floor, Senator Mitch McConnell, who contemptuously fought McCain's campaign finance reform bill all the way to the Supreme Court, oozed admiration toward his Arizona colleague, as McCain did yet another grandstanding fandango on the health care bill. 
 Watching him, one can only wonder: Is McCain betraying his best self? Who is the real McCain? 
 Even some of McCain's former aides are disturbed by the 73-year-old's hostile, vindictive, sarcastic persona -- a far cry from The Honorable Man portrait so lovingly pumped up in books by his former aide and co-writer Mark Salter.
 After he lost to W. in a nasty primary battle in 2000, McCain delighted in poking at the new Republican president. But he was a trenchant critic of W.'s budget-busting tax cuts and other policies because his objections were consistent and honestly felt. (Or so we thought.)
 Now he delights in attacking another man he ran against and lost to: a new Democratic president who had once hoped, based on McCain's past positions, that his former Republican rival might be of help in such areas as the economy, national security, immigration and climate change.
 With President Obama, McCain's objections seem motivated more by vendetta than principle.
 He angrily turned on his former base, the news media, during his campaign when his lame performance on the economy and his irresponsible choice of Sarah Palin got panned. 
 In 2000, McCain would devilishly point out Tom Brokaw or a Times journalist to town hall audiences as ''one of the last Trotskyites, left-wing, Communist, pinkos of the American media.''
 In 2008, he snarled to political aides about journalists whom he had once admired, like Brokaw and Charlie Gibson, and he cut off The Times completely. He talks about the media betrayal with the same outsize scorn that he once reserved for his Viet Cong captors.
 The famous twinkle is gone, replaced by an infamous bitterness.
 After his 2008 race against Obama -- a campaign that too often took the low road in toadying to the right and painting Obama as a socialist and terrorist fellow-traveler -- the capital eagerly waited to see which McCain would return to the Capitol.
 Would McCain be the new lion of the Senate, putting ''Country First'' for a historic final chapter to his long career? Or would he morph into the sort of knee-jerk Congressional partisan he had once loathed?
 Sadly, despite the scary trellis of problems America faces, the unorthodox, brave and cheeky McCain failed to show up. 
 Part of his sharp turn to the right may be motivated by his primary challenge for a fifth term from J.D. Hayworth, a conservative, anti-immigration talk-show host and former Republican House member (who has also been anti-Times at times).
 But he has said himself that it's more about philosophical differences with President Obama.
 Unlike his pal Lindsey Graham, who voted to confirm Sonia Sotomayor, McCain seemed motivated by revenge when he voted against Obama's first Supreme Court nominee.
 ''An excellent resume and an inspiring life story are not enough to qualify one for a lifetime of service on the Supreme Court,'' McCain sniffed.
 McCain, who once led the fight in the Senate with his pal Joe Lieberman on enacting a global warming bill, shocked many when he flipped on the issue, attacking climate legislation supported by Lieberman, Graham and John Kerry.
 McCain has also descended into demagoguery on Medicare. Although he has been in favor of Medicare reductions to cut the deficit over years, he's now adopted a rigid hands-off Medicare stance.
 He rejected the idea of being a point man on immigration in the Senate, apparently preferring to stew.
 A couple of times, during floor speeches on health care this month, the Arizona senator noted ''that a fight not joined is a fight not enjoyed.''
 It seemed to be an inadvertent recognition that he was fighting for the sake of it, not to help the country get past some of the hideous problems left by the man McCain failed to stop in 2000.
 Maybe an excellent resume and an inspiring life story are not enough to qualify one as a real statesman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); WRITERS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BUDGETS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TAX LAW (70%); TERRORISM (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (63%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009



665 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2009

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Are Colleges Really More Selective?

BYLINE: REBECCA R. RUIZ


HIGHLIGHT: A Stanford economist challenges the notion that colleges have become more selective. 

 BODY:
The number of high school graduates has climbed to a record height this decade. You'd think that would make college admissions more competitive than ever, but a recent paper by an economist suggests otherwise.
Caroline M. Hoxby, professor of economics at Stanford and director of the Economics of Education Program for theNational Bureau of Economic Research, points out in "The Changing Selectivity of American Colleges" that while high school graduation rates are up, so too is the number of freshman seats on the market.
Since 1955, Ms. Hoxby writes, the number of high school graduates has grown by 131 percent while the number of college spots has risen by 297 percent. She also notes that communication and transportation costs have declined, making it easier for students to learn about universities - and vice versa - and for students to travel farther to go to college.
As a result, Ms. Hoxby asserts, 90 percent of colleges are less selective today than they were in the 1950s and '60s.
She concludes in her report, rather cryptically, that:
Typical college-going students in the U.S. should be unconcerned about rising selectivity. If anything, they should be concerned about falling selectivity, the phenomenon they will actually experience.
But for students applying to elite colleges, the picture is dramatically different. Those institutions, Ms. Hoxby says, are growing more selective. They account for the remaining 10 percent of colleges whose patterns she calls "an exception to the rule." 
You might assume, as I would, that the cause for rising selectivity among these 75 to 100 elite institutions is over-concentrated demand: These colleges receive disproportionate attention, and thus more applications for admission, but they have a fixed supply of freshman seats.
Ms. Hoxby, however, insists that the increased selectivity of elite colleges has nothing to do with a shortage of seats. Rather, she attributes it to what she calls, "re-sorting of students." She observes that today's applicants are less interested in staying close to home and more interested in a school's resources and student population, leading them to broaden their gaze and "fan out" across the globe. 
I would argue that her reasoning doesn't rule out supply and demand as the root cause of this rising selectivity at elite colleges: with globalization, student demand for top-quality education is rising, while supply is, to some extent, constant, due to public perceptions that exclude newer or less visible schools from immediate consideration.
In a phone conversation, I raised my questions with Ms. Hoxby. She rejected my argument, saying: "These colleges have expanded enough for extra students to go. Change in selectivity doesn't come from the fact that they have not opened enough seats.
"I think it has to do with information. If you think of the typical college student in 1955, this college student had no idea where he or she was in the national distribution. He didn't know if he was in the 90th percentile or the 10th percentile. And the colleges didn't know, either.
"Once there was more information due to national testing and other things, students figured out who they were. Before that, they'd been very dependent on high school counselors and the local feeder pools.
"Localness has just become less important. It's really all about re-sorting of students."
She offered the example of a top high school student from Ohio. With a stronger awareness of his abilities and chances of admission, and a willingness to travel for college, he is now considering Harvard or Stanford or other national options. In the past, she said, his choices would have been limited to in-state options.
That student might be accepted and choose to attend a top East or West Coast university, but, Ms. Hoxby said: "The sorting goes both ways. Somebody is getting in to Harvard, and somebody is being pushed out."
I'd argue that it is that very effect - the rejection of a qualified student - that illustrates supply and demand at work, and I'm not sure I buy Ms. Hoxby's theory of re-sorting.
Nonetheless, her larger reminder makes fundamental economic sense: students who broaden their focus will broaden their options.
Weigh in below with your reactions to Ms. Hoxby's observations and thoughts on changing selectivity in admissions.

        
A Ceremony to Kick off Sophomore Year?
        
Part 1: Answers to Your Back-to-School Admissions Questions
        
Seeking Your Back-to-School Questions on Admissions
        
Study Finds Academic 'Coaching' Boosts Graduation Rates
        
Plea to Expand Enrollment at Top Colleges

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%) Caroline M. Hoxby; Stanford University; Attention Counselors; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



666 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: For American Workers in China, a Culture Clash

BYLINE: By HANNAH SELIGSON

 BODY:
As more Americans go to mainland China to take jobs, more Chinese and Americans are working side by side. These cross-cultural partnerships, while beneficial in many ways, are also highlighting tensions that expose differences in work experience, pay levels and communication.
 In the last few years, a growing number of Americans in their 20s and 30s have been heading to China for employment, lured by its faster-growing economy and lower jobless rate. Their Chinese co-workers are often around the same age. 
 ''The tight collaboration of the two countries in business and science makes the Chinese-American pairing one of the most common in the workplace in China,'' said Vas Taras, a management professor at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, a specialist in cross-cultural work group management.
 But the two groups were raised differently. 
 The Americans have had more exposure to free-market principles. ''Young Americans were brought up in a commercial environment,'' said Neng Zhao, 28, a senior associate at Blue Oak Capital, a private equity firm based in Beijing. ''We weren't. So the workplace is a unique learning process for my generation.'' 
 People in Ms. Zhao's generation were born around or shortly after Deng Xiaoping opened up China to the West, so China has evolved from a government-regulated economy to a more free-market system in their lifetime. Therefore, they can face a steeper learning curve. 
 Sean Leow, 28, founder of Neocha, a social networking site based in Shanghai, says young Chinese employees often enter jobs with less hands-on preparation. They may also have less understanding of client services, he said. 
 In addition, he said, ''I know a lot of my Chinese colleagues did not do internships in college,'' in contrast to United States students. 
 Managers hiring workers in China appear to be paying a premium for Western experience. Foreigners tend to earn 10 to 15 percent more than their Chinese counterparts in similar positions, said Michael Norman, senior vice president at Sibson Consulting, an American firm.
 That imbalance does not go unnoticed by Chinese workers. ''There is definitely the perception that Americans get paid more for the same work,'' said Ting Wang, 25, an associate at WildChina, a travel company based in Beijing.
 The difference is a function of supply and demand, Mr. Norman said. ''If you need the foreigner for their specialized knowledge of the West, companies are willing to pay a little more.'' 
 On the other hand, Chinese workers have a deeper understanding of the influences, like Confucianism and Communism, that play a part in their country's culture and economy. 
 It is imperative for Americans working in China to adjust, said Mr. Norman, who works on management and work force issues for multinational companies operating in Asia.
 ''In the West, there is such a premium on getting things done quickly, but when you come to work in China, you need to work on listening and being more patient and understanding of local ways of doing business,'' he said.
 Ming Alterman, 25, a senior account executive at Razorfish, a Shanghai-based digital media firm, is the only American among 40 employees. He says Americans need to understand the importance of building so-called guanxi (pronounced GWAN-she). The word means relationships, but has implications beyond the obligatory happy hour, occasional lunches with the boss or networking.
 ''In China, it's really expected that you become friends with your boss and you go out and socialize in a way that doesn't happen in the U.S.,'' Mr. Alterman said. 
 The Chinese now rising in the work force were raised and educated in a system that tended to prize obedience and rote learning. Their American counterparts may have had more leeway to question authority and speak their minds. This can affect workplace communication.
 When Corinne Dillon, 25, was working at a multinational company in Beijing, she noticed that her Chinese colleagues were sometimes hesitant about expressing their opinions, which she thought was rooted in views about hierarchy.
 ''Because foreigners are often in higher positions in companies, or even when they are not, there is sometimes an implicit respect given to them that makes Chinese people not want to directly disagree with them for fear of being perceived as impolite,'' said Ms. Dillon, who is now director of sales and marketing at That's Mandarin, a language school based in Beijing.
 The difference cuts both ways. Ms. Zhao, of Blue Oak Capital, recalled her first experience working for an American at an American-run agency in Beijing. What her American boss perceived as directness left her feeling humiliated, she said. ''I remember I was so embarrassed when my American boss told me he didn't like something I was doing, right in front of me,'' she said. ''The Chinese way would have been much more indirect.'' 
 Communication styles, Professor Taras said, can create workplace challenges. ''Americans often perceive the Chinese as indecisive, less confident and not tough enough, whereas the Chinese may see Americans as rude or inconsiderate.'' 
 This, he said, ''can lead to conflicts and misunderstandings, but also affect promotion and task assignment choice, and ultimately performance.'' 
 What is similar, though, is that both the Americans and the Chinese perceive a glass ceiling. ''Most expats don't speak good enough Chinese, so their promotion prospects are limited, and on a social and cultural level, young Chinese feel there are barriers that are hard to get past,'' said Ziyu Wen, 28, who works with Americans in her job as a communications manager in Beijing. 
 Despite the tension, the Chinese-American pairing holds many economic and political benefits for both countries. 
 ''China needs workers who understand China and the West, so they can develop a business presence and influence in overseas markets,'' Mr. Norman said. 
 ''Likewise, America needs people who truly understand the Chinese, in order to compete and cooperate.'' Having Americans working alongside the Chinese in China, he said, ''is one of the best ways to cultivate and internalize this understanding for the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Corinne Dillon at the language school in Beijing where she works. She says the Chinese do not directly disagree because they do not want to appear impolite. (B1)
 Corinne Dillon and Xiao Chao, founder of the school where she works in sales and marketing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (50%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



667 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FRONT ROW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: So Young, So Smart, So Gone

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
THE news this week of the demise of Phi, a tough-edged collection designed by Andreas Melbostad, a protege of Calvin Klein and Donna Karan, surprised many fashion insiders. After six years in the market, the collection was just starting to gain traction beyond the close-knit crowd of editors and retailers who packed its Chelsea showroom each season. 
 ''We are all stunned,'' said Natalie Massenet, the founder of Net-a-porter.com, which sells Phi's skintight biker pants ($595) and leather ankle boots ($825). ''It was one of our favorite collections of the season.''
 The poor outlook for luxury goods was cited as the reason for closing the company, and some of the label's fans suggested it was too ''niche'' to survive through the recession. The spring collection, which will not be produced, included bandage jeans and dresses with scads of harness closures, so perhaps they had a point. The clothes always looked sort of as if Victoria's Secret had been hijacked by the Hells Angels.
 But its failure was still sobering because the label was a pet project of Susan Dell, a decent designer in her own right and the wife of Michael Dell, the computer tycoon. And according to Phi's executives, the company was still growing. In addition to selling to Neiman Marcus and Holt Renfrew, it has a large store in SoHo and planned to open a second in Los Angeles next year.
 ''The brand seemed to us as a textbook case of how to build a modern fashion house,'' Ms. Massenet said. ''The collections were always strong and directional, yet commercial and impeccably made. If a business like that can't succeed, then I worry for so many other young brands.''
 But the management team of Phi, while discussing its future, saw a shrinking opportunity for small luxury labels to succeed. Julia Hansen, the chief executive of the company, which had about 35 employees, said the decision to close was influenced by the many requests from retailers to change designs to make them less expensive. (By designer standards, Phi's prices were not overly obscene -- a pair of harem shorts may have cost $1,495, but they were suede.)
 ''There was a lot of pressure to go down a path that we felt would compromise the integrity and value of the brand,'' Ms. Hansen said. ''But this was about being realistic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LAST LOOK Part of Phi's spring collection, which won't reach stores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); CLOSINGS (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BRAND EQUITY (64%)

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



668 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Loan Program May Stir Dormant Nuclear Industry

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When experts on power grid reliability asked themselves recently how a cleaner energy future would look, seven of eight regional councils imagined how their systems would work with 10 percent wind power. 
 Only one, representing the southeastern United States, chose a radically different option: doubling nuclear power capacity.
 Thirty years after the American nuclear industry abandoned scores of half-built plants because of soaring costs and operating problems like the Three Mile Island accident, skepticism persists over whether the technology is worth investing in.
 Yet the pendulum may be swinging back. The 104 plants now running have sharply raised their output, emboldening utilities across the country to make a case for building new ones. 
 And the industry is about to get a big boost. In the next few days, the Energy Department plans to announce the first of $18.5 billion in loan guarantees for building new reactors. 
 The guarantees were authorized in a bill passed by Congress in 2005. 
 It has taken four years for the department to set up a system to evaluate applications and determine how much the borrowers will be charged for the guarantees to compensate the government for taking the risk. 
 Industry experts think the first guarantee will go to the Southern Company to build two units at its Vogtle nuclear plant near Augusta, Ga.
 The money will flow amid a national credit squeeze and intense jockeying among the nation's wind, solar, geothermal and nuclear sectors. Each is trying to cast itself as an ideal ''clean'' energy option as the nation moves toward reining in the carbon dioxide emissions linked to global warming. 
 All of these sources could potentially benefit under a cap-and-trade system that is being considered in Congress as part of climate change legislation. Such a system would set a ceiling on carbon dioxide emissions and allow trading of pollution permits, handicapping the carbon-intensive coal and natural gas sectors. 
 Historically Republicans have been more enthusiastic than Democrats about nuclear power. So as the climate bill winds its way through the Senate, some Democratic members are seeking to add to the $18.5 billion in loan guarantees for the nuclear industry to attract Republicans and some industrial-state Democrats. (The House version passed in June, 219 to 212.)
 Some of the foremost Congressional climate change campaigners are unenthusiastic. 
 Representative Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who has hounded the nuclear industry for decades over safety questions and who is a sponsor of the House bill, does not favor direct aid to the nuclear industry. He argues that a cap-and-trade system would give the nuclear sector the only boost it deserves. 
 If that system goes into effect, he said, nuclear power ''will be able to compete more effectively in a new marketplace. How effectively they can compete is going to be the question.'' 
 Others see combining a cap-and-trade system with a nuclear aid package as a sensible tactic to get Congress to address environmental problems. 
 ''One can argue it certainly is bringing about an unusual marriage of interests here,'' said Philip R. Sharp, an Indiana Democrat who served in the House of Representatives from 1975 to 1995 and led a House committee with jurisdiction over the electric system. 
 ''It is one of the potential paths for actually getting real action and real legislation,'' said Mr. Sharp, who now heads the nonpartisan group Resources for the Future.
 Economic issues have helped scramble alliances on the state and local level, too. Because new reactors create so many jobs and big tax revenue, the Democratic governors of Maryland and Ohio are working hard to get them built in their states. 
 State legislatures from Louisiana to South Dakota and local governments from Port Gibson, Miss., to Oswego, N.Y., are also on record favoring new reactors.
 Peter A. Bradford, a former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission who is now vice chairman of the Union of Concerned Scientists, questions the wisdom of direct aid to the industry. 
 Unlike cap and trade, in which industries buy and sell the right to release carbon dioxide in a market-oriented system, he said, the loan guarantees finance projects that the private sector deems too risky.
 The government would be ''picking some winners and bestowing a lot of taxpayer support on them,'' he said.
 By Mr. Bradford's count, of 28 reactors that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission now lists as planned, half have had major delays, large increases in estimated cost or have been canceled. 
 If new plants built with government guarantees prove to be a commercial success, the program costs taxpayers nothing; if they prove too expensive to finish or are completed but cannot earn enough to repay the loans, the taxpayer is on the hook. 
 Complicating the challenge, the forthcoming loan guarantees amount to only $18.5 billion, and the nuclear industry says it needs tens of billions more. 
 President Obama's energy secretary, Steven Chu, acknowledged that the sum was small. He said it could finance at most perhaps one plant for each new reactor design, making it hard to determine which design was most practical. 
 ''If I were a power company, maybe one of each would not be helpful,'' he said. He suggested that the nuclear industry would need to build two or three of each.
 But Dr. Chu insists that nuclear power will be an important piece of any climate solution. 
 ''We have a dormant nuclear industry,'' he said. ''We have to start it up in a way that gives the people who are going to make investments the confidence that this is economically viable.'' 
 Mindful of the challenges posed by global warming, some environmentalists are cautiously evaluating their positions on nuclear power.
 ''There is an increasing number of people who have spent their lives as environmental advocates who believe that carbon is such an urgent problem that they have to rethink their skepticism about nuclear power,'' said Jonathan Lash, the president of the World Resources Institute, who puts himself in that category. 
 ''But there are many people who are passionate environmentalists who are also passionate opponents of nuclear power, and remain so,'' he said. 
 Among the foes is Karen Hadden, executive director of the Sustainable Energy and Economic Development Coalition in Austin, Tex., which is fighting a nuclear project there that is in line for a loan guarantee. While she strongly favors carbon limits, she said, she opposes construction of reactors. 
 She warned that money for solar, wind and geothermal projects could get siphoned off ''in these multibillion-dollar projects that may or may not ever get built.'' 
 Daniel L. Roderick, senior vice president for nuclear plant projects at GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy, a partnership between General Electric and Hitachi of Japan, said that a year and a half ago, there were expectations that more than 20 units would be under construction by now in the United States. ''That number is currently zero,'' he said. 
 Nonetheless, G.E. and other companies have invested tens of millions of dollars in plans for reactors they hope to build around the world, including dozens in the United States.
 David Pogue, whose column usually appears on this page, is on vacation. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some environmentalists now see nuclear power as part of an effort to combat climate change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BABCOCK & WILCOX COMPANY) (B7) MAP: Growth and Skepticism in Nuclear Power: The Energy Department is expected to announce $18.5 billion in loan guarantees for new reactors. But more than half of proposed units have been delayed or canceled, or their cost estimates have increased.
CHART: U.S. NUCLEAR POWER PLANT CONSTRUCTION LICENSES (Sources: Nuclear Regulatory Commission
American Nuclear Society
 Energy Information Administration) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (86%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (86%); GREENHOUSE GASES (86%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (68%); CREDIT CRISIS (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%); AMERICAN NUCLEAR SOCIETY (59%)

TICKER: SO (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (55%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



669 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER MXYPLYZYK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: A One-Stop Christmas for Dawdlers

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
AT this 11th hour of the wild Christmas goose chase -- and this is true whether the economy is bustling or bristling -- most normal people are afflicted with that weird state of anxiety, anticipation, dread and panic that the Germans call shopenfreude. 
 O.K., so they don't -- but I do.
 Unfortunately, the usual cure for shopenfreude is running through an egregious amount of time, money and wrapping paper in the quest for perfect presents. This usually results in a secondary condition known as Spendhal Syndrome, characterized by a severe depletion of energy, money and good will, especially toward those who don't appreciate those presents.
 And for what? A few Christmases back, I had put off shopping until the 24th, when I was to go upstate to see family and friends. In a rare trance of efficiency, I packed my bags, took a cab to Mxyplyzyk (Mix-ee-PLIZ-ik) in the West Village and emerged 20 minutes later, heavier in luggage and lighter in spirit. 
 Ever since, I have wondered why everyone doesn't just do the same. You can spend a lot or a little, and you leave this completely modern gift shop with a couple of bags full of sweet, smart, funny, stylish items that everyone will like better than the things you spent so much time and money on. 
 It comes down to this: Christmas does not have to be so worrisome. Why agonize over whether this book or scarf or bowl has that ethereal quality of giftiness, being something the giftee would want but never buy for herself or himself. There's no need. There is already an entire gift industry, a virtual North Pole, with actual trade shows -- the New York International Gift Fair hits town in just over a month. Why look for things that would make a good gift? Perfectly good gifts already exist, designed and certified by people who know what they're doing. 
 And there are stores that are not the gift shops of yore, filled with Dresden china shepherdesses, picture frames and eau de cologne, but of today, like Alphabets and Lancelotti in the East Village, Fred Flare in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, and, the luxury version, Moss in SoHo. 
 But for me, Mxyplyzyk, which opened in 1992, its name inspired by Mr. Mxyzptlk, an early, quirky Superman villain, defined the concept. A young man I encountered shopping at Mxyplyzyk last week put it perfectly. ''It almost doesn't matter what you buy,'' he said. ''You can pretty much grab anything from here and people are going to love it.''
 I could not agree more. People always say I'm hard to shop for, but I would be perfectly happy with anything from this place, from the high end, like the World Clock ($210), a map that glows with 24 LED readouts of the hour in every time zone, to the low, like a packet of retro click-open ballpoint pens ($5.95) or a set of little candles styled to look like cartoonish black bombs and labeled ''Kaboom!'' ($9.95).
 There are hundreds of items in the store's carefully edited mix that range from the sincere to the sarcastic, from the organic to the artificial, from the disposable to the heirloom. There are things both useful and playful: a lighter in the shape of a giant match ($9.95), a plastic tape dispenser in the shape of a recumbent cartoon figure ($22.95), delicate crystal bottles cast to look like plastic mineral water bottles ($38). 
 There are great design addict items, like a multicolor plastic mixing bowl set ($55), a small spherical loudspeaker that can attach to an MP3 player ($50) and coffee mugs decorated with a square of bright color and the relevant Pantone color information ($12.95).
 There are lightly whimsical items of decor, like a clear glass piggy bank ($28), wood-laminate trays with photo-collaged images of extravagantly dressed birds ($185) and a porcelain lamp in the shape of an owl ($135). And there are simple, nice items with no trace of humor: a coppery glazed organic vase ($68), a roughly hewn wood lamp with a steel cage shade barely shielding the artisanal bare bulb inside and simple crystal hourglasses ($22 and $28).
 Mxyplyzyk was around before the midcentury craze hit and made ''design'' such a coveted (and pricey) category. But the shop has always been about a great item at a great price -- ''taking something common and giving it a unique, unexpected twist,'' in the words of Kevin Brynan, the owner. In the 1980s, he and his partner owned Dot Zero, a ''more austere museum-quality'' store, as he called it, and he wanted Mxyplyzyk to be less pretentious, less expensive and more fun.
 It is certainly that. One of the best aspects of the store is its stock of things for specific tastes and obsessions: The people who have everything don't have this stuff. A small set of soapstone cubes ($22.95) are made to be frozen and served with Scotch or bourbon, which they will chill but not dilute as ice cubes do. (Dad will approve.) There are handmade pear candles in several grandmother-approved colors ($5.95). And for the recycling enthusiast, for whom the orgy of Christmas is one long cringe-athon, there is a ingenious folding basket made of recycled chopsticks ($28) and a clutch studded with keys from old computer keyboards ($35). 
 There are books for children, like the old-fashioned and useful ''Pictorial Webster's'' ($35). There are gifts for celebrators of other holidays, like a little green menorah in the shape of a Christmas tree. And there are gifts for the children of celebrators of other holidays, like the book ''Yiddish With Dick and Jane'' ($14.95).
 There are gifts for those skeptical of mankind's appeal, like ''In My Humble Opinion'' ($20), a calendar featuring hilariously misanthropic quotes, and there are gifts for fans of man's appeal, like ''Turkish Wrestling'' ($12), a photo book devoted to what can only be described as a highly photogenic sport.
 The only drawback to the merchandise is heard in the comment that Mr. Brynan gets from some of his customers. ''People say, 'You sell all this stuff that nobody needs, but we buy it anyway,' '' he said. ''But everything here does work, whether it just makes you smile or it actually does something.''
 Besides, Christmas isn't about needing. It's about giving.
 MXYPLYZYK
 125 Greenwich Avenue (near 13th Street); (212) 989-4300. 
 THE MODERN CURIOSITY SHOP Unlike the many spartan and sparkling design emporiums, Mxyplyzyk is cozy and friendly. Nothing is artfully presented or spotlighted. The place is cluttered with knickknacks and pristine design pieces alike.
 SERVICE WITH A WINK The sales staff is witty, efficient and personable, but not intrusive. 
 LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION The store recently opened a kiosk in the Time Warner Center and fills 
 orders via telephone and its Web site. The Web site is frustrating, though; there isn't even a search field. Plus, many of the fanciful items should be seen and felt to be evaluated. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



670 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: Saying No, No, No to the Ho-Ho-Ho

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

 BODY:
IT was beginning to look a lot like Christmas. So what was a good, compassionate, environmentally conscious guy like Dan Nainan to do?
 The tree was the first problem. ''You cut down a tree and you're going to throw it out in three weeks,'' he said. ''If you get a plastic tree, you're wasting petroleum.''
 Then there was the whole matter of buying gifts. ''I think it's great that people are going out and buying things and helping the economy,'' he said. But when a Wal-Mart employee can be trampled to death in a manic dash for holiday bargains, as happened last year, ''that kind of crystallized everything for me.''
 The answer: Skip it. The whole holiday. No tree. No stockings, carols or any of the ''whole nine yards'' of trappings and traditions that Mr. Nainan said his family has always laid on. 
 ''Instead of buying stuff for people who don't need it and will probably return it anyway, I'm going to take all the money that I would have spent on presents, find some needy people -- not a charity -- and give the money directly to them,'' said Mr. Nainan, 28 years old and single, who, belying his earnestness and world-saving inclinations, is a professional comedian. He planned to spend Christmas Day working on his Web site, trolling Facebook and taking an elderly woman who lives in his Manhattan apartment building out for dinner.
 This has been a year for paring back Christmas. Largely by economic necessity, many people have been trimming their gift lists, subduing their celebrations and aiming for a simpler, lower-key holiday. 
 But some, like Mr. Nainan, are taking that sentiment to the extreme. For them, this is the year of the anti-Christmas, the year when everything -- from the pressure to find the perfect present to the prospect of family drama over roast turkey -- just got to be too much. 
 In response, they are opting out of the festivities entirely. This year, they are taking a holiday from the holiday.
 ''W.W.B.J.D.?'' asked Richard Laermer. (That is, What would baby Jesus do?) ''Sit it out.'' 
 Mr. Laermer, a media consultant and the author of ''2011: Trendspotting for the Next Decade,'' and his partner of 20 years have long celebrated Christmas elaborately. But 2009 was so disappointing economically, politically and spiritually, he says, that the holidays aren't worth celebrating. The couple will spend Christmas Day watching ''I Dream of Jeannie'' episodes on DVD and taking dips in their pool in La Quinta, Calif. 
 One year ago today, Pepper Hill was preparing to host her annual Christmas Eve open house. Her Atlanta home was decked in lights. Her Christmas tree was beautiful. Twenty minutes before the guests were due, she had a sense of dread in the pit of her stomach. 
 ''Wow,'' she said to herself. ''I can never do this again.''
 Ms. Hill, a 50-year-old voice-over actress, said she had been feeling a spiritual drift away from Christmas for several years. And yet, each December she continued to go through the motions of sending out holiday cards, decorating the house, buying gifts. This year as December approached, she wondered if she'd have the nerve to shun the rituals that had always been a part of her life. 
 She did. ''It was so liberating!'' she said.
 On Christmas morning, Ms. Hill and her husband were planning to wake up in their Christmas-tree-free home, get in the car, drive to a mountain and go for a hike. They hope they won't see another soul on the trail. They'll have breakfast at one of those chains along the Interstate, probably the only culinary option open on Christmas Day in Georgia. In the afternoon, they'll go to the movies. She wants to see the new Meryl Streep film, ''It's Complicated.'' Then -- because we all know that, whether you celebrate it or not, Christmas can be a long day -- they'll probably stay for a second movie (''Maybe something heavy like 'A Single Man,' '' she said).
 Though Ms. Hill's transformation may be dramatic, there are indicators that Christmas revelry in general may be slipping among the population at large. The Christmas Spirit Foundation, a charity that provides holiday assistance to needy children and sends Christmas trees to military families, has been examining people's plans for the holidays for the last five years. This year's survey, conducted by the polling firm Harris Interactive, found that while 95 percent of households plan to celebrate Christmas (about the same as every year), the percentage of families who plan to exchange gifts is dropping: 77 percent this year, down from 85 percent in 2005. Slightly fewer people said they were going to attend parties or listen to Christmas music, too. 
 Another organization hired Harris to conduct a different type of Christmas poll -- this one on holiday stress. The survey, commissioned by Breakthrough at Caron, a residential program for adults suffering from drug and alcohol addiction as well as dysfunctional family situations, found holiday stress to be almost universal -- 90 percent of respondents said they suffered from it -- but that this year the feeling was amplified. Thirty-eight percent of the people polled said they expected to feel more anxiety this holiday season than last. Most blamed the economy, but 77 percent also cited family conflicts.
 ''There's a lot of pain associated with Christmas,'' said Hank Stuever, the author of a new book, ''Tinsel: A Search for America's Christmas Present,'' which follows the Yuletide preparations of three families in a sprawling Dallas suburb over three consecutive years, 2006 to 2008. ''There's a lot of joy, too. You're supposed to be happy -- thank you, Charles Dickens -- and when you aren't, you feel bad.''
 Mr. Stuever said he has been struck by how many people approach him after readings of his book asking for advice on ''ramping down Christmas.'' He said he has counseled many to think about taking a break from the holiday for a year to rethink what it means to them. ''Sometimes you need to control-alt-delete Christmas,'' he said, to build it back up into something more meaningful. Following his own advice, he and his partner were planning to fly on Christmas from their home in Washington to Los Angeles, and ignore Christmas entirely. ''I promised Michael a tinsel-free Christmas,'' he said.
 Certainly Hollywood has clued in. In recent years the movie industry has saved some of its biggest releases for Christmas Day, recognizing that the classic Jewish practice of going to the movies on Dec. 25 is catching on with gentiles looking for a break from conversing with relatives, assembling toys or consuming the chocolate Santas that happen to be lying around.
 Another American Jewish tradition, going out for Chinese food on Christmas, may have crossover appeal as well. A few years ago, Claire Rigodanzo, a lifelong Catholic, took her extended family to Ming's, a Chinese restaurant in Palo Alto, Calif., for its annual Christmas Day comedy show (always a sold-out event) aimed at a Jewish crowd. The name of the show: ChopShticks. ''It was really fun,'' she said. ''We'd definitely do it again.'' 
 But that involves family togetherness -- something Krista Rogers is trying to minimize this Christmas.
 Growing up, her family made a big deal of Christmas. But over the years, she says general ''strife and issues'' began to get in the way.
 Her mother and her three siblings -- and their spouses and children -- live nearby, in Denver. Ms. Rogers has no children; her husband has two grown sons.
 ''I feel like we get invited because they feel sorry for us,'' she said. ''You feel like you're intruding on their Christmas and I feel bad about that.''
 Ms. Rogers, 46, said she would go to a Christmas Eve church service because the religious aspect of the holiday remains important to her, and afterward stop by her mother's and older sister's home with some gifts. But for the first time, she's declined all family invitations for Christmas Day. 
 Instead, she and her husband plan to drive eight hours to the Grand Canyon, where she's never been. ''We'll do some hiking and sit in the hot tub.'' They're taking wine and their own wineglasses. ''We'll sit in our room and enjoy the view and have a unique Christmas. And not feel guilty about it.''
 For Renata Rafferty, a 53-year-old philanthropy adviser, a life change prompted the decision to sit out Christmas this year. In October, her husband of 21 years died. In this, her first Christmas ''as the Widow Rafferty,'' she said, ''I decided not to stress myself by conforming to some tyranny of the 'shoulds.' ''
 Ms. Rafferty recently moved to a new home, in Evansville, Ind., and it has ''some really hideous wallpaper.'' So she's decided to spend Christmas Day stripping wallpaper and beginning the process of making something new.
 Her mother and sister invited her to Florida for Christmas but she politely declined. ''My mother is a lovely woman, but she embodies holiday stress,'' Ms. Rafferty said. 
 ''Maybe next year I'll know what I'm 'supposed' to do,'' she said. ''But for now, I'm looking forward to stripping on Christmas.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: UNORNAMENTED: Dan Nainan in the corner of his Manhattan apartment where his Christmas tree could have gone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY HOVLAND) (pg.E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



671 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Rises, but Home Sales Drop

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Consumers and housing are usually the forces that help dig the United States economy out of a downturn, but their role in the current recovery remains uncertain, government reports released Wednesday indicated.
 Consumer spending rose modestly, 0.5 percent, for the sixth time in seven months. Adjusted for inflation, spending increased 0.2 percent in November, according to the Commerce Department.
 The spending numbers improved in part because consumers had more money available. Smaller job losses in November and a slight increase in the hours that employees worked bolstered wages and salaries, and overall personal income rose 0.4 percent in November. 
 But consumers were still unwilling to open their wallets too wide, given concern over how much wealth they have lost in the last two years and the weak job market.
 ''The consumer is not going to be a key driver of the recovery, but will go along for the ride as incomes improve,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at HIS Global Insight.
 The savings rate, which is measured as the percentage of after-tax income that people choose not to spend, has hovered just below 5 percent for six months. While that its still beneath its average of the last few decades, it is much higher than the near-zero rate consumers adopted in the years leading up to the financial crisis.
 A higher savings rate is good for the economy's long-term health because it makes more capital available to help businesses grow. In the short term, however, it can slow a recovery because the economy is partly dependent on consumers' willingness to spend.
 The report also showed that inflation remains under control, for the time being. 
 The price index based on consumer spending increased 0.2 percent in November. The index excluding food and energy -- an inflation measure favored by the Federal Reserve -- rose less than 0.1 percent. 
 ''Until the economy firms up a little more, we probably won't have to worry about inflation,'' said Scott Hoyt, senior director of consumer economics at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''Maybe two to three years out, inflation will become a concern again, but it's certainly not an issue for today.''
 More troublesome news came from the Census Bureau's new-home sales report, a volatile indicator that showed purchases of new one-family houses tumbling last month. 
 Sales fell to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 355,000 in November, an 11.3 percent drop from October and its lowest rate since April. The numbers were much lower than analysts had predicted and seemed to belie trends in other housing data that gave hope the industry was stabilizing.
 Economists caution, however, that the decline may simply be a hiccup that resulted from a confusing policy debate in Washington. 
 A home buyer tax credit had encouraged Americans to purchase homes. But with its original expiration date nearing in November, and the possibility that Congress would extend it still unclear, buyers probably were reluctant to sign for a new home. 
 ''People didn't know what the financing situation would be when they closed,'' the chief economist at ITG, Robert Barbera, said.
 In the end, Congress chose to extend the credit and even expand the pool of eligible buyers. 
 ''A lot people will be horrified by the November numbers, but I'm willing to dismiss it,'' Mr. Barbera said, adding that he does not expect ''further deterioration.'' 
 The anticipated end of the tax credit this fall, however, may have motivated some people who had planned to buy next year to buy a little earlier, potentially depressing sales in 2010.
 Economists predict that the United States economy grew at an annual rate of about 4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009, after a 2.2 percent annualized increase in the previous quarter. The ramp-up will probably primarily come from inventory building rather the consumer side, which is still depressed because of the sluggish job market.
 ''Consumers need jobs to start to become more confident,'' John Ryding, the chief economist at RDQ Economics, said. ''But we're really not at that point yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers at a mall this week in Cambridge, Mass. Consumer spending increased 0.2 percent in November, adjusted for inflation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DWYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); STATISTICS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); CENSUS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



672 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Ferry Between Manhattan And Yonkers Is Set to Stop

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
After five years and more than $5 million in government spending, commuter ferry service between Manhattan and Yonkers is about to come to an end.
 Having burned through all of the subsidies provided by federal and state agencies, the ferry's operator, New York Water Taxi, plans to make its final run up the Hudson River to Yonkers next Thursday. The shutdown will end the service's short second life and will leave Yonkers with a rebuilt downtown pier but no water link to New York City.
 ''I'm certainly disappointed,'' said Jim Pinto, the executive director of the Yonkers Downtown Waterfront Development Corporation. ''There just is no funding available for ferry operations.'' 
 The service, an 18-mile trip that took about 45 minutes, used the last of a $4.2 million subsidy from the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation in midsummer. But it was kept alive for the rest of the year with $500,000 in additional funds provided by state and local economic development officials.
 The latest grants were based on the notion that adding a stop in Midtown would significantly increase ridership. But that did not happen, even after a $50,000 marketing campaign, according to Mr. Pinto. He said the service added only five or six riders in the last few months.
 ''We were looking for a 50 percent increase in ridership when we started the marketing,'' Mr. Pinto said. ''We never realized that kind of an increase.''
 At its peak, the service carried only 80 to 90 riders a day, he said. Those passengers paid at least $8 each way, but the subsidy amounted to more than $50 per rider.
 The subsidies were among the few that have been offered to commuter ferry services in the metropolitan area in the last decade. Elected officials frequently extol the virtues of ferries but usually choose to build docks and terminals for them rather than to help pay for their operation. That approach has left the region with several new or rebuilt docks and piers but just a few strapped ferry companies.
 Among the contributors to the service was the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which provided $2 million toward the rehabilitation of the pier in Yonkers. Representative Nita M. Lowey, a Democrat from Westchester County, delivered almost $2 million in federal funds. Some of that came in 2004, when plans for the service were drawn up, and the rest came last year for equipment for the ferry landing in Yonkers.
 Tom Fox, president of New York Water Taxi, said that his company would have to lay off about eight employees who operated and maintained the boats that made the Yonkers runs. He said the company treated its regular riders to a ''bittersweet'' goodbye on Tuesday by taking them and their families on a ride up to the Tappan Zee Bridge. 
 New York Water Taxi, which is owned by a wealthy developer, Douglas Durst, has shifted its focus from commuting to excursions and charters. It has created ''beaches'' as waterfront destinations around New York Harbor, and a year ago bought the Circle Line Downtown sightseeing boat service, which is no longer related to the Circle Line that operates from Midtown.
 ''We tried everything we could to increase ridership'' to and from Yonkers, Mr. Fox said. ''I think it should have been marketed more. Just producing the product is laudable, but you have to include the marketing that will make the public aware. It's a hard lesson learned.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

PERSON: NITA M LOWEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



673 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: 12 Days of Gift-Giving Cost True Love $21,466

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
The partridge is a deal, and so is the pear tree, for the generous giver who wants to bestow the gifts listed in the song ''The 12 Days of Christmas'' on a beloved this season. But despite a tattered economy, the memorable mix of leaping lords, milking maids and a slew of fowl will cost slightly more this year.
 At $21,465.56, the eclectic collection of goods and services is about 1.8 percent more expensive than a year ago, largely because of higher gold prices, according to PNC Wealth Management in Pennsylvania. 
 The group has compiled the list for 26 years as a catchy way to track the annual cost of living. The Web site, pncchristmaspriceindex.com, now includes sample lesson plans, games, music and other media to help elementary and high school students learn about economic trends. 
 Gold, an investor haven, rose almost 43 percent this year, lifting the price of the carol's five gold rings to about $500, PNC said. Gold rings are one of five items on the whimsical gift list that rose in price. Four other items remained steady, and three fell from last year -- bringing the total for the carol's gifts to $385.36 more than 2008.
 ''Our index reflects a dramatic drop in energy, fuel and shipping costs,'' said James P. Dunigan, PNC's managing executive of investments. ''But gold, turtledoves, French hens and higher wages for maids and dancing ladies brought the index up.''
 Repeated purchases of the gifts, as the song suggests, would raise the cost to $87,402.81, up 0.9 percent over last year's tally of $86,608.51. This was the smallest increase since 2002, when the PNC index decreased slightly because of the economic downturn at the time. PNC's index largely mirrors the annual federal Consumer Price Index, which the Bureau of Statistics prepares to measure inflation. It was up 1.7 percent year over year through November. The one item that skews PNC's index is the seven swans a-swimming. The cost of a flock, or wedge, of trumpeter swans declined this year by 6.3 percent, to $5,250. That contrasted with last year when swan scarcity sent the cost up 33 percent from 2007. 
 Other birds plummeted in price this year, with the partridge down 50 percent, to $10, from 2008, according to prices PNC gathered from the National Aviary in Pittsburgh. The six geese-a-laying dropped 37.5 percent, to $150, but the four calling birds stayed the same as last year, at $600. The only birds on the list to increase in price were the two turtledoves, which rose less than 2 percent, to nearly $56, and the three French hens, which surged 50 percent, to $45, because they are imported.
 Even the famous pear tree slid in price this year, down 25 percent, to $150, as fewer landscapers were ordering such trees to adorn new homes.
 Wage pressures tapped down the cost of labor, Mr. Dunigan said. But there were two exceptions.
 The eight milking maids received an automatic minimum wage increase, to $7.25 an hour. Even so, they totaled a mere $58, up $5.60 from last year. The eight ladies dancing fared far better, with a 15 percent raise, to $5,473 for each performance based on figures from the Philadelphia modern dance company, Philadanco. 
 But other performers were not as fortunate, reflecting a jobless rate that doubled this year after hovering around 5 percent for much of the decade, Mr. Dunigan said. Pay was flat for the 12 drummers drumming, at $2,475, 11 pipers piping, at $2,284, and 10 lords-a-leaping, at $4,414.
 The fastest and easiest way to assemble the carol's 79 items is by shopping online, but that adds to the final tab. True Love, named as the giver in the song, would have to shell out $31,434.85 for the Internet purchases. The Internet-only total is slightly less than last year, but still about $10,000 more than individual shopping, largely because of shipping costs.
 For those who still have a lot of spare cash and a yen for the memorable, the total tab for all 364 of the carol's items, as repeated in choruses, would be $127,643 online, compared with the $87,403 otherwise.
 Has anyone ever put the PNC index's findings to the test, assembling the song's gifts, either shopping the old-fashioned way or on the Internet?
 ''Not that we know of,'' Mr. Dunigan said.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the costs to acquire the gifts listed in the carol ''The 12 Days of Christmas'' misstated the number of ladies dancing. It is nine, not eight. (Before the ladies dance, there are eight maids a-milking.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gold prices rose almost 43 percent, lifting the cost of five gold rings to about $500. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE PLUNKETT/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDS (87%); CHRISTMAS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); TRENDS (75%); FINE JEWELRY (75%); GOLD MARKETS (71%); STATISTICS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (54%); HIGH SCHOOLS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



674 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Senators Settle a Wall St. Impasse

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The top Senate Democrat and Republican negotiating new Wall Street regulation said Wednesday they expect to resolve their differences before the end of January, an optimistic outlook for a bill that had seemed mired in partisan conflicts. 
 Senators Christopher J. Dodd and Richard Shelby issued a joint statement saying bipartisan negotiations have resulted in ''meaningful progress.'' 
 The tone of the statement contrasted with Mr. Shelby's dismissive reaction when Mr. Dodd released a draft of his bill last month. At the time, Mr. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, said the Senate had not done enough to study the causes of last year's financial crisis to adopt regulations to address them.
 Mr. Dodd, a Democrat from Connecticut, is the Banking Committee chairman and Mr. Shelby is its ranking Republican.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%)

PERSON: RICHARD SHELBY (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



675 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Chilly Climate for Oil Refiners

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Only a few years ago, a cry went up that the United States needed more oil refineries. The perceived shortage was so acute that George W. Bush, president at the time, even offered disused military bases as sites for building them.
 Not only did that never come to pass, but the reverse is now happening. The business of oil refining is mired in a deep crisis, with five refineries having shut down this year, including plants in Delaware, New Jersey, California and New Mexico.
 Gasoline demand, which many analysts had long expected to keep rising for decades, is down sharply in the recession. And refiners are increasingly convinced that even after the economy recovers, demand will not grow much in coming years because of the rise of alternative fuel supplies and the advent of tougher efficiency standards for automobiles. 
 The recent closings signal the end of a period from roughly 2004 to 2008, when demand soared, refineries operated near capacity and profits swelled. For drivers, that meant gasoline prices at $3 or $4 a gallon, especially when hurricanes knocked out refining capacity on the Gulf Coast. For refiners, this gilded period turned out to have been an anomaly. 
 Plagued by boom-and-bust cycles of rapid expansion followed by sharp belt-tightening, refining companies have often struggled to operate at a profit. That is a contrast to the production side of the oil business, long a road to riches.
 ''Oil production creates wealth, but oil refining has often destroyed it,'' said Costanza Jacazio, an analyst at Barclays Capital in New York. 
 Even so, these are unusually harsh times for oil refiners. The recent drop in gasoline demand could result in more refineries being closed in the coming year. 
 ''We have too much capacity,'' said Lynn D. Westfall, the chief economist at the Tesoro Corporation, a midsize refiner, who estimated that the industry's capacity of 18 million barrels a day must be cut 5 to 8 percent. ''We need refineries to be shut down.''
 Refineries, especially smaller ones, have been closing for many years. The number of refineries in the United States fell to about 150 in recent years from more than 300 in 1982. At the same time, the nation's refining capacity grew by about 13 percent, as companies expanded their most efficient refineries.
 But the shutdowns are now coming so fast that the United States is losing capacity as refiners struggle to match their output to falling demand. Some energy experts have said that gasoline consumption most likely peaked in 2007, when it reached 9.7 million barrels a day, and will not rise to that level again. 
 Even as demand has dropped, gasoline is still relatively expensive because of high oil prices. Gasoline prices have dropped to an average of $2.58 a gallon, according to the motorist group AAA, with many analysts predicting further declines this winter. 
 Gasoline consumption fell 3.5 percent last year, the steepest decline since 1965, while diesel consumption fell 6.8 percent, the most in 28 years. Both are set to fall again this year. 
 Government mandates for ethanol, meanwhile, are expected to grow through 2022. Biofuel supplies, which were negligible a few years ago, are set to reach 15 billion gallons in 2012 and 36 billion gallons in 2022. As production grows, ethanol and other biofuels displace gasoline and diesel; at many gasoline pumps ethanol is now 10 percent of the blend, and the ethanol industry is pushing to raise the percentage.
 The refining industry is also faced with a new political reality. Unlike the Bush administration, which offered support and incentives to petroleum producers, the goal of the Obama administration is to encourage alternative fuels and reduce the use of gasoline. 
 Refiners are complaining about the climate change legislation is making its way through Congress, fearing that it will impose higher costs on the petroleum industry and result in more gasoline imports from lower-cost refiners overseas. 
 The increase in automobile fuel-efficiency standards -- by 2016, the fleet average will rise to 35.5 miles per gallon from an average of about 25 miles per gallon for vehicles on the road today -- is expected to reduce oil consumption by a total of 1.8 billion barrels between 2012 and 2016. Automakers from General Motors to Nissan are also betting on a new generation of electric cars that will become available in the next few years. 
 In a speech this month at the Los Angeles auto show, Robert A. Lutz, General Motors' vice chairman for marketing, said, ''The automobile industry simply can no longer rely on oil to supply 98 percent of the world's automotive energy requirements.'' 
 That leaves refiners with difficult choices: cut costs and hope to survive the downturn; try to sell plants; or shut down unprofitable refineries. ''The industry is on its collective knees right now,'' said Charles T. Drevna, president of the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association. 
 About 700,000 barrels a day of refining capacity have been idled or shut down in North America in the last year, according Aaron Brady, an oil expert at IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates. 
 The industry is expanding elsewhere around the world, especially in Asia, where gasoline demand is expected to rise in the coming decades. Thanks to multibillion dollar projects in China, India and Saudi Arabia, the industry is expected to add two million barrels a day of refining capacity this year, even as global oil demand drops by around 1.7 million barrels a day, or about 2 percent, according to Barclays.
 American refiners are bearing much of the brunt of the downturn. Last year, the American industry operated at 85.3 percent of capacity, the lowest level since 1988, according to the Energy Department. The utilization level is on track to sink to 75 percent this year, compared with highs above 90 percent just five years ago.
 The Valero Energy Corporation, the nation's largest refiner, announced this month that it had shut down its refinery in Delaware City, Del., which could process 210,000 barrels of oil a day. Once the industry's highflier, Valero, based in San Antonio, has seen its stock price plummet as a result of the economic downturn. The stock is down 22 percent this year, after a 69 percent drop in 2008. 
 ''The golden age of refining -- if it ever existed -- didn't last very long,'' said Bill Day, a spokesman for Valero. 
 Two other refineries were shut down since October: Sunoco's Eagle Point plant, in Westville, N.J., and Western Refining's plant in Bloomfield, N.M., with a combined capacity of about 160,000 barrels a day. Refineries in California and Aruba, the latter operating primarily to supply the United States market, were also closed earlier this year.
 Oil majors, like independent refiners, are also suffering. Exxon Mobil's domestic refineries lost $203 million in the third quarter, a period when earnings at its global refining business dropped by $2.7 billion, to $325 million. Chevron earned $34 million at its domestic refineries in the last quarter, compared with more than $1 billion a year earlier. 
 In a bid to diversify its supplies, Valero, which has 15 refineries in the United States, Aruba and Canada, has recently bought a handful of ethanol refineries. Even though ethanol refiners have also struggled in the recession, mandates passed by Congress ensure that increasing amounts of that fuel are likely to be mixed into the nation's gasoline supply in coming years.
 ''We recognize that ethanol is an important side of the fuel mix that is not going to go anywhere,'' said Mr. Day, of Valero. ''That's where the future of demand growth and transportation fuels will be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This month, Valero Energy, the nation's largest refiner, shut down its plant in Delaware City, Del., which could process 210,000 barrels of oil a day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIA ROBERTSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: NUMBER OF U.S. OIL REFINERIES
OPERABLE REFINERY CAPACITY
 CAPACITY UTILIZATION (Source: Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GASOLINE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); CONSUMPTION (74%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); WEATHER (67%)

COMPANY: TESORO CORP (65%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: TSO (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (65%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



676 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: The Damsel Is in Distress

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
PRETTY in pink? Not Deborah Watson. ''If I see a floral print or pastel dress in my closet, I think: 'Ugh, gross! I don't want to wear that,' '' she said. Ms. Watson, a fashion stylist in New York, has turned her back on those hallowed totems of femininity in favor of the raffish look of a big T-shirt, well-worn jeans and a graying black cotton overcoat. ''Anything more girly, I just see as weak,'' she said. ''It's not cool to be demure.''
 A disdain for such sweetly conventional trappings of sex appeal has trickled down of late from tastemakers like Ms. Watson to scores of followers who are swapping their baby-doll dresses, spindly heels and lace for the flinty attractions of studs and leather, mannish jackets and rock-star jeans. Their embrace of a pointedly aggressive, street-smart style suggests that the more adventurous are rethinking the tenets of female allure. 
 If the old ideal of sexiness was the shoulder-baring voluptuousness of Scarlett Johansson, the new sexy is the European fashion editor Carine Roitfeld in a black blazer and tall vixenish boots. The look, often slightly disheveled, is shared by off-duty models and style-world insiders. 
 ''We may like Lady Gaga, but in this day and age, women aren't rushing out to look like her,'' said Sam Shahid, the art director behind the provocative advertising campaigns of Abercrombie & Fitch.
 Women now want to project a ''more powerful sexuality, not a damsel in distress,'' said Sharon Graubard, a senior executive with Stylesight, a trend forecasting firm in New York. The look, streamlined and armored for tough times, reflects a distrust of trends and a skepticism toward traditional gender roles. Most tellingly, perhaps, it also represents a pragmatic response to a hobbled economy. 
 ''So-called luxury -- people are tired of it,'' said Tatsugo Yoda, the owner of Aloha Rag, a fashionably progressive Honolulu boutique with a New York outpost. ''They want more utilitarian pieces -- military jackets, track pants and classic white shirts -- that they can wear more than twice a year.'' The look is assertive, Mr. Yoda said, but recognizable at the same time.
 Much the same can be said of the 1990s-inflected biker jackets, latex leggings and fingerless gloves that are also key components of a style that is as racy as it is familiar. It represents ''a down and dirty kind of look,'' said Andrew Bolton, curator at the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. At the same time, its suggestion of disarray ''gives an idea of accessibility,'' he said. ''There is so much sex appeal in imperfection.''
 These notions of sexual allure can be traced to the utility gear adopted by self-styled survivalists, the funky regalia of old-school rockers, even the lingerie-and-leather of Parisian streetwalkers. More Patti Smith than Fergie, current variations on sultriness are thorny and faintly androgynous. These rebellious, antifashion messages, blunted over decades of exposure, have been picked up, inevitably, by the world of high style. 
 Today shapeless, and sometimes shredded, T-shirts, combat boots and aviator caps reminiscent of a Mad Max epic, are proliferating on runways, as are leggings, fatigues and bicycle shorts. At the same time, retailers are championing the studiedly casual look of tailored jackets, oversize tunics and understated dresses as unfussy correctives to the rumba ruffles and dolly-bird frocks still appearing on some runways. This fall, fast-fashion outlets like Topshop and Forever 21 offered myriad variations on the biker jacket, leather rocker vest and calf-clutching jeans.
 Mr. Yoda, for one, is selling a brand of androgyny that has antecedents in the artfully shabby world of grunge. At Aloha Rag, the look is slightly rough-hewn but has the advantage of spotlighting some overlooked erogenous zones: shapely backs and forearms and fragile collarbones, to name a few. It also reflects a willful gender mash-up being propagated by the young or young at heart. 
 ''We've got a new dress code based on shifting norms around gender,'' said Diane Ehrensaft, a psychologist in Oakland, Calif. Dr. Ehrensaft, who sees many middle school students and teenagers in her practice, argues that their blurring of assigned roles is deliberate and calculated. ''Younger people just aren't accepting the standard boxes anymore,'' she said. 
 With their harsh outlines and suggestions of menace, the latest iterations of sexiness have gained little traction in American fashion glossies, which, some readers argue, persist in promoting sugary looks that are juvenile and contrived. 
 ''Whatever the magazines say, somehow it isn't working,'' said Jamie Chiu, 29, a photographer in New York. ''I'm not a soft girl,'' added Ms. Chiu, who prefers the more rugged glamour of a leather jacket and skinny jeans. ''I want to be sexy on one hand, but I also want to be tough, and I don't want to show off my body.'' 
 Nor would she be likely to commit the fashion infraction of trying too hard. For sartorial inspiration she looks to mannequins rather than movie stars. ''Agyness Deyn, she is the perfect woman now,'' Ms. Chiu said. With her choppy hair, funky suspenders and jaunty men's hats, Ms. Deyn ''doesn't show off too much. She's my idol now.'' 
 Ms. Deyn and her peers in the modeling world -- and, as significant, the editors of European fashion magazines -- are the superstars of fashion blogs like Sartorialist, Fashionista and Garance Dore, which tend to bypass the labored sexiness of Hollywood stars like Megan Fox for the spiky yet approachable allure of Emmanuelle Alt and Ms. Roitfeld of French Vogue or Giovanna Battaglia, an Italian fashion editor, who are frequently snapped during fashion weeks on their way to the tents. 
 ''Editors and models have become the new fashion icons,'' said Tommy Ton, the Toronto-based publisher of Jak & Jil, a photo blog that documents their comings and goings. ''Even celebrities follow their lead.'' 
 Off-duty models increasingly function as fashion bellwethers, said Ms. Graubard, the trend forecaster. ''They know how to inhabit clothes.'' 
 To Helen Yi, a boutique owner in Chicago, editors like Ms. Battaglia are freshly anointed fashion avatars. ''They show you a real-world version of high fashion. They're not dressed by a stylist, and sophisticated people recognize that.'' 
 And as Scott Schuman, creator of the Sartorialist, the photo blog about street fashion, observed: ''It's the models' authenticity that makes them so sexy and appealing. People want a look that's real.'' 
 On recent visits to Europe and Australia, where he was promoting a new book based on his blog, Mr. Schuman noted that the influence of models and editors had become more widespread. ''The accountants, doctors, lawyers and students who came to my book signings recognize their names and emulate their style,'' he said. 
 That style, low key and mostly covered, retains a subtle charge. ''For me sexiness is more interesting when it's not in your face,'' said Susie Cho, the designer for Inhabit, a fashion label built on drape-front tank tops, cashmere leggings and filmy cardigans. Neither demure nor revealing, Ms. Cho's unstructured look is based on comfort. 
 ''It's not overtly feminine and certainly not ladylike,'' she said, taking a swipe at recent corseted revivals of the Eisenhower era. Interpreted literally and stripped of irony, many such period looks ''are self-conscious,'' she said. ''And there's nothing sexy about that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO FRILLS: Mannish jackets, leggings and ripped hose, all worn in an unstudied way by off-duty models and fashion insiders, have come to define a new sexiness. (MAIN PHOTO, TOMMY TON/JAKANDJIL.COM
INSET PHOTOS, THE SARTORIALIST) (pg.E1)
OLD WAY: A sweetly conventional sexuality expressed in bare shoulders and mile-high heels.
RED CARPET READY: Scarlett Johansson, right, Megan Fox, Victoria Beckham and Rihanna. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP TO BOTTOM: REUTERS/KIERAN DOHERTY
FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES
HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PASCAL LE SEGRETAIN/GETTY IMAGES)
NEW WAY: Clothes that are sleek and armored for tough times, and emphasize less-obvious erogenous zones.
STREET SAVVY: Lou Doillon and Zooey Deschanel, top row
Carine Roitfeld and Erin Wasson, middle
and Agyness Deyn and Selma Blair, bottom row. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP LEFT, ERIC RYAN/GETTY IMAGES
TOP RIGHT, BRYAN BEDDER/GETTY IMAGES
MIDDLE LEFT, FRED DUVAL/FILMMAGIC
MIDDLE RIGHT, AMY GRAVES/WIREIMAGE
LEFT, STEVE FORREST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE, JEFFREY UFBERG/WIREIMAGE) (pg.E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (66%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (66%); AFT (FRA) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (66%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (66%)

PERSON: SCARLETT JOHANSSON (71%); VICTORIA BECKHAM (59%); LADY GAGA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



677 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Vietnamese Rights Lawyer Charged in Capital Offense

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
Intensifying a crackdown on dissent in advance of a Communist Party Congress, Vietnam has charged a prominent American-educated human rights lawyer and at least two associates with the capital crime of subversion, the official press reported on Wednesday.
 The lawyer, Le Cong Dinh, 41, was arrested in June along with four other pro-democracy campaigners. All had at first faced the less severe charge of spreading antigovernment propaganda, which is more commonly brought against dissidents. 
 Two months later, a shaky video showed Mr. Dinh sitting in his shirt sleeves at a small, bare table and reading a handwritten confession aloud as his jailers shuffled around noisily off-camera.
 ''I regret my wrong actions,'' Mr. Dinh said, looking down at the text. ''I wish the state to consider clemency for me.''
 That confession and similar ones by other dissidents are part of a crackdown that human rights groups say has included dozens of arrests and prison terms.
 In October, nine people were sentenced to prison terms ranging from two to six years for hanging banners that called for multiparty democracy.
 Diplomats and political analysts say the arrests are meant not only to punish but also to set the boundaries for discussion in advance of the next Communist Party Congress, set for early 2011.
 ''It's a shot across the bow in advance of the congress to tell people to keep their heads down,'' said Carlyle B. Thayer, a specialist on Vietnam at the Australian Defense Force Academy in Canberra. ''Now is not the time for you to advocate political liberalization.''
 The arrests have drawn condemnation from Western governments and human rights groups, putting the Vietnamese government on the defensive.
 On a visit to Slovakia a week ago, President Nguyen Minh Triet said Vietnam should not be subject to the standards of the West.
 ''Laws of each country are different,'' he said. ''They are based on the different historical and geographical conditions, and that is why it is impossible to implement the laws of one state in the other country.'' 
 Vietnam officially gave up Communist economics in 1986 with a policy called ''doi moi,'' or economic renovation, and it has been liberalizing its economy since then, joining the World Trade Organization in 2007.
 But as Vietnam moves away from Communist orthodoxy in parallel with China, analysts said, there are people, particularly among a lower-ranking younger generation, who believe that the country is stable and prosperous enough now to loosen its political system.
 As factions struggle over the wording and substance of the policies that will emerge from the next party congress, the voices for liberalization are pushing to be heard both within Vietnam and among an active anti-Communist diaspora that is making vigorous use of the Internet.
 The crackdown has sought to contain those voices, introducing tighter limits on press freedom and on Internet discussion sites, including political blogs. Access to Facebook has recently been restricted.
 At a meeting of World Bank donor nations this month, the United States ambassador to Vietnam, Michael W. Michalak, spoke of a ''shrinking of the space for honest, reliable information,'' Agence France-Presse reported.
 The charges against Mr. Dinh illustrate a concern, periodically repeated in the official press, over what is seen as a destabilizing influence of contacts with the West -- ''peaceful evolution'' is the Chinese and Vietnamese term. The warnings point to the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and to peaceful uprisings that brought down governments in places like Ukraine and Georgia.
 Among the accusations against Mr. Dinh was that in March he attended a three-day training course in Thailand, sponsored by an overseas Vietnamese political group, at which two Serbians made presentations about methods of peaceful change.
 According to a report Wednesday in the newspaper Thanh Nien, Mr. Dinh and his associates ''colluded with Vietnamese reactionary groups and hostile forces in exile'' to form a reactionary political organization ''aimed at overthrowing the people's government through nonviolent means.''
 Mr. Dinh and his colleagues are expected to go on trial soon under Article 79 of the Penal Code, ''carrying out activities aimed at overthrowing the people's administration.'' 
 Mr. Dinh, who studied law at Tulane University in New Orleans for two years on a Fulbright scholarship, has often met with diplomats and other foreigners.
 He has served as the vice chairman of the Ho Chi Minh City bar association and acted on behalf of the government several years ago when he successfully represented Vietnamese catfish farmers in a dispute with American fishermen.
 More recently his activities have taken on a political tone, and he has published pro-democracy essays on the Internet and defended human rights lawyers accused of antigovernment propaganda. Among other things, according to the charges against him, Mr. Dinh used his platform as a defense lawyer to speak out about human rights.
 In a 2007 court appearance, he reportedly said, ''Talking about democracy and human rights cannot be seen as antigovernment unless the government itself is against democracy.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (62%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (54%) AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) VIET NAM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SLOVAKIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



678 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Rising Commodity Prices Provide a Lift as Dollar Falls

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks ended an erratic session with a slender gain Wednesday as rising commodity prices offset disappointment over an unexpected drop in home sales.
 Gains in commodities drove the shares of energy and materials-producing companies higher, lending support to the overall stock market. Gold, oil and other commodities rose as the dollar dropped. 
 The dollar ended a four-day winning streak as economic data reinforced investors' belief that the recovery would be slow.
 The Commerce Department said sales of new homes fell 11.3 percent in November to their lowest level since March. The slump was disappointing because economists had forecast an increase, and because the news came a day after stocks rose on a separate report showing a better-than-expected gain in sales of existing homes last month.
 The housing disappointment followed news that personal spending and income both rose in November. However, economists say growth remains too weak to sustain a strong recovery.
 Volume was light. The market will be open a half day on Thursday and closed on Friday.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1.51 points, or 0.01 percent, to 10,466.44. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.57 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,120.59, while the Nasdaq composite index gained 16.97 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,269.64.
 Oil surged more than 3 percent, rising $2.27 to $76.67 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gold prices also rose.
 Stocks started out modestly higher on Wednesday after the Commerce Department reported that personal income rose at the fastest rate in four months. That enabled Americans to increase their spending for the second straight month. Personal incomes rose 0.4 percent, while spending rose 0.5 percent. Both figures fell slightly short of the market's expectations.
 Tim Courtney, chief investment officer at Burns Advisory Group, said Wall Street's mild reaction to Wednesday's economic data might be a reflection of the few appealing alternatives for investors right now.
 Buying a 10-year Treasury note to lock in yearly gains, at a yield just above 3.5 percent, does not provide as much value as stocks whose gains could be sharply higher, he said. Gains on Treasuries could be further eroded if inflation began to pick up.
 Bond prices were little changed Wednesday following three days of declines. The 10-year Treasury note rose 2/32, to 96 30/32, leaving the yield unchanged at 3.75 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



679 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Recession Slows Population Rise Across Sun Belt

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; James C. McKinley Jr. contributed reporting from Houston, and Ian Urbina from Washington.

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
States in the South and the West that grew by exceptional leaps and bounds during the real estate boom of just a few years ago are now experiencing sharply slower growth in population, the Census Bureau said Wednesday.
 Many of those states are still projected to gain seats in Congress after the 2010 census, however, while industrial states in the Northeast and the Midwest will most likely see their delegations shrink. 
 But in a sign of the recession's power to reshape established demographic trends, the new census figures show that growth has slowed substantially in Arizona, Georgia and North Carolina, while in Florida, Nevada and California, more Americans moved out than in. 
 As a corollary, the new data show that several states in the Northeast -- like New York, New Jersey and Massachusetts -- are holding on to more residents. 
 ''What we have is a decade of a roller coaster in terms of migration,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution. ''If you look at the middle part of this decade, Florida led the country in net domestic migration. Now it's in the negative part of the ledger.''
 The figures released Wednesday -- the last state estimates to be published before actual results from the 2010 census count become available -- reflect data as of July. The numbers are both the most up-to-date reflection of the recession's impact nationwide, and the best available predictor of Congressional reapportionment. 
 In all, 17 states would be subjected to redistricting if the estimates hold in the door-to-door head count next year. Influence would generally shift from traditionally Democratic northern areas struggling with industrial decline and an aging population, to the South and the West, where independents are ascendant and disputes over immigration, taxes, and environmental issues, like water supply, tend to stand out. 
 Texas, for example, appears to be the big winner. It would gain three seats in Congress under the July estimate, bringing its total to 35. Between July 2008 and July 2009, it added more people from home and abroad than any other state -- 231,539. That is more than Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida and Nevada, combined. 
 More broadly, however, the recession that began in 2007 has significantly slowed the great American migration toward warmth and sun. It was a move, earlier in the decade, driven as much by quality of life as easy credit, according to demographers and economists. But the reversal is nearly as striking. 
 State rankings prepared by Mr. Frey, based on the new numbers, show that Florida is now 45th in domestic migration growth after ranking first from July 2001 to July 2005. It lost 31,179 people to other states from July 2008 to July 2009. 
 In terms of its total growth rate with foreign arrivals included, Florida now ranks 32nd, down from third in 2002. 
 Similarly, Nevada has fallen to 17th on the total growth-rate list, after leading the country from 2000 to 2004. It now ranks 36th in domestic migration, losing 3,801 people after adding more than 170,000 from other areas of the country from July 2003 to July 2006. Arizona, meanwhile, dropped to eighth in overall growth rate. Only three years ago, it was in first place. 
 ''The population trends are obviously now being shaped by this economic decline,'' said Andrew A. Beveridge, a Queens College demographer. ''The places that have had a really big decline economically, the states hit most heavily by the real estate crisis, have certainly had a real decline of people showing up there.'' 
 Earlier census reports suggested that the recession has been defined in part by a lack of mobility, as millions of Americans stay in homes they cannot sell. The new data also show that for the third year in a row, international immigration declined.
 Politically, to some extent, that means that the demographic changes from the boom earlier in the decade are being locked in by the bust. 
 Formerly high-growth states are likely to gain seats in Congress. Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Nevada, South Carolina, Utah and Washington would add one seat each, according to an analysis of the figures by Dr. Beveridge at Queens College.
 Politicians in Texas, whose economy has been buffered by high oil prices, a growing technology sector and less of a crash in real estate, are already haggling over what promises to be a contentious redistricting fight. In all, 18 Congressional districts in the state have added more than 100,000 people since 2000. 
 Much of the growth has been in conservative suburban districts around Dallas and Houston, but political scientists believe that many of the newcomers will lean liberal. ''It means a Republican state becomes bigger and a little less Republican,'' said Sean Theriault, a professor of government at the University of Texas. 
 Meanwhile, most of the states that would lose representation in Congress are those that spent the first two-thirds of the decade funneling people south. Ohio would lose two seats, leaving it with 16, Dr. Beveridge found. States losing one seat include Illinois, Iowa, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania. 
 Or at least that is how it looks right now. Cincinnati officials fought what they described as a census undercount tied to a population estimate in 2007, and state officials in Ohio said Wednesday that they were doing everything possible to ensure that everyone was counted so that only one seat would be lost. 
 ''The bottom line is no one should count Ohio out,'' said Amanda Wurst, a spokeswoman for Gov. Ted Strickland, a Democrat. ''We're going to make sure that the population is accurately reflected in the census, and fight for that Congressional seat.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: Last Count Before 2010: New population estimates released on Wednesday offer a preview of which states are likely to lose seats in Congress and which are likely to gain after the 2010 census.
CHARTS: States that would gain seats
 States that would lose seats (Source: Census data analysis by Andrew A. Beveridge, socialexplorer.com) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); POPULATION GROWTH (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); RANKINGS (84%); TRENDS (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); AGING TRENDS (72%); IMMIGRATION (67%); AGING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



680 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Bridge Closing Has Isolated Area Feeling More So

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: ADDISON, Vt. 

 BODY:
Lorraine Franklin sat in her empty store Monday evening, remembering what a typical night here used to look like: frenzied parents grabbing a pizza, frazzled workers picking up six-packs, night shift employees loading up on coffee. 
 But since October, the West Addison General Store here has been nearly empty each night, a phenomenon due not to the economy, but rather a failed span of steel and concrete three miles away. 
 The Lake Champlain Bridge, which connects Vermont and New York, was closed Oct. 16 after it was deemed unsafe. Its concrete pillars had deteriorated significantly since its last inspection in 2005, and officials feared the 720-foot bridge could collapse. 
 The 80-year-old latticework structure, rising majestically above Lake Champlain, is scheduled to be demolished on Monday. While residents were shocked at the speed and timing of the closing, its poor condition was well known. A local mantra when driving over the bridge, according to Ms. Franklin, was ''roll down your window, unbuckle your seat belt and say a prayer.'' 
 Losing the bridge has, in many ways, been like losing a treasured member of the community, and residents are dealing with stages of grief: shock and disbelief have morphed into misery, anger and bleakness as winter has set in. 
 ''Every day there's the constant pressure of not knowing whether I can pay my bills,'' said Lisa Cloutier, who owns The Bridge restaurant a few hundred yards away and has cashed in her retirement savings to sustain the 80 percent drop in business since it closed. ''I feel like I'm a ticking time bomb.'' 
 Generally, the closing has hit Vermont businesses and the New York residents who work at and patronize them hard. The bridge, one of only two connecting the states across Lake Champlain, was used by about 3,400 drivers a day who now must travel around the northern end of the lake to the other span, adding two hours and 100 miles to the round trip. Or they are forced to take one of two ferries that run in the winter. 
 Most of the region's doctors, along with large hospitals, trauma and birthing centers, are on the Vermont side. Larry Tuner of Moriah, N.Y., said his wife was scheduled for surgery in Vermont soon -- which will mean hours of driving or riding the ferry to see her.
 A temporary ferry will start running from the bridge site in late January, and a new bridge is scheduled to be finished by the summer of 2011, said John Zicconi, a spokesman for the Vermont Agency of Transportation. Many residents say the timeline is too slow to help businesses that are suffering now. 
 ''We lost our life's blood,'' Ms. Cloutier said of Vermonters. ''They lost their life's line,'' she said of New York residents. 
 It used to take Carole St. Pierre about a half hour to get to her job at B. F. Goodrich in Vergennes, Vt., from her home in Crown Point, N.Y. Now she wakes up around 3 a.m. to drive to a shuttle bus that takes her to a ferry that leaves at 6 a.m. She leaves work at 3:30 p.m., then reverses the trip, arriving home after 5 p.m.
 She and her co-workers feel like their lives have been upended -- one had to quit a second job in Vermont because he could not get home, and has lost $1,600 in income since the bridge closed. 
 ''I've fallen asleep with my head on the keyboard,'' Ms. St. Pierre said during a shuttle van ride to catch the ferry home on Monday afternoon.
 When the Lake Champlain Bridge opened in 1929, it was an engineering marvel that changed life and business for two otherwise difficult-to-reach regions. The two communities soon became inexorably entwined, and northern New England became much easier to reach.
 The bridge is jointly owned by New York and Vermont, with New York in charge of maintenance and inspection. Traffic on the rusting bridge was reduced to one lane in early July. Many residents feel they have been misled by officials, who assured residents that, with repairs, the bridge was useable until 2013. 
 ''I feel they darn well knew there were problems,'' Ms. Franklin said. ''We all feel we were lied to and our lives were put in danger, needlessly.'' 
 Deborah Sturm Rausch, a spokeswoman for the New York Department of Transportation, said she could understand why people felt that way, but said that ''really, nothing is further from the truth.''
 An inspection was ordered, she said, after a state employee in a boat spotted a crack in a pillar. The report discovered the problem with the pillars, and the bridge was immediately closed. The next inspection had been scheduled for 2010. 
 ''There would have been no way to predict this,'' Ms. Rausch said. ''It's really, really good that this was noticed because this bridge is very unsafe and unstable.'' 
 Gov. David A. Paterson of New York has allocated $3 million in emergency aid to affected communities, and a $1 million package is under consideration in the Vermont legislature.
 Diane Lanpher, a state representative from Vergennes, fears that other bridges in the state, many of which are around the age of the Lake Champlain Bridge, might also have potential problems. She plans to have a legislative committee investigate bridge safety statewide. 
 ''This isn't the only one,'' Ms. Lanpher said. 
 For many here, Monday will be an emotional day. Ms. Cloutier, who will close her restaurant until the new ferry opens, plans to serve doughnuts and coffee for the implosion. 
 Everyone, she said, has a special story about the bridge -- she used to sit underneath it, drink Champagne and soul-search while battling cancer and going through a divorce. Now her cancer is in remission and she recently remarried. Yet the view of the bridge continues to bring her solace. 
 ''It's like I'm losing my best friend.'' Ms. Cloutier said. ''I don't think anybody realizes what we're really losing.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 31, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about the isolation felt by residents on both sides of the Lake Champlain Bridge, which connected New York and Vermont, after its closure on Oct. 16 misstated the length of the bridge, which was demolished on Tuesday with a controlled explosion. It was 2,184 feet, not 720.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Lake Champlain Bridge, between Chimney Point, Vt., and Crown Point, N.Y., was closed Oct. 16 for being unsafe. Demolition is Monday.
LORRAINE FRANKLIN: ''Roll down your window, unbuckle your seat belt and say a prayer:'' A local mantra when crossing the bridge, which residents were assured was safe, with repairs, for a few more years.
 The bridge was used by 3,400 drivers a day. The ferry between Essex, N.Y., and Charlotte, Vt., is one of two that crosses the lake in winter.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALEB KENNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Destruction of a bridge will mean a lengthy detour. (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); LAKES (89%); RESTAURANTS (73%); HOSPITALS (65%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



681 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: A Bank Idea, With Ancient Roots, for Helping Small Businesses

BYLINE: By MARK COHEN

 BODY:
To this day, Bart Mitchell is not entirely sure he knows what a merchant bank is. ''I guess I think of it as the old-fashioned banker who takes the time to listen to his customer's needs and help them solve their problems,'' he said. (Actually, that is not far off.)
 One thing he is certain about is that if not for Next Street, a four-year-old, 22-employee merchant bank with offices in Boston and New York, his development company would have been in big trouble.
 This year, in the teeth of the worst commercial real estate and lending crisis in a quarter century, Mitchell Properties managed to secure $5.7 million in long-term financing for an 84-unit condominium and retail complex in Boston's mixed-income South End. 
 The financing, arranged through U.S. Bank and a mind-numbingly complex public-private sector loan program known as the New Market Tax Credit, essentially retired $1.7 million of construction debt, shaving about $20,000 off the project's monthly loan payments. For Mitchell Properties, it was probably the difference between surviving the recession relatively unscathed and contributing to the growing list of belly-up real estate projects.
 ''I don't know what we would have done,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''In general, the projects that qualify for the program are much bigger than ours, but Next Street knew all the parties and was able to put the pieces together.''
 It is a common refrain for Next Street clients, by and large established businesses with $5 million to $50 million in annual revenue.
 The chief executives of these companies, which include a Boston-area moving business with as many as 400 seasonal employees, a major supplier of refurbished toner cartridges, and a manufacturer of truck batteries that meet California's stringent new idling restrictions, report that Next Street fills a vital role for their organizations. 
 More than one has said that its blend of Fortune-500-level advice and access to sophisticated financing could be a solution to the small-business credit squeeze threatening to derail the economic recovery.
 That is what makes Next Street intriguing: It may be the only small-business merchant bank in the country.
 ''We wish there were more,'' said Tim Ferguson, the British-born co-founder and partner of Next Street. ''And we've looked, but, with the exception of a few specializing in alternative energy and biotech, we haven't found any.''
 Although most people have only a vague notion of what the term means, at one time many of the dominant financial institutions in the world were merchant banks: Rothschild, M.M. Warburg, J.P. Morgan, Lazard, Hambros and Barings. 
 The great merchant bankers advised kings and railroad barons, bankrolled the Dutch East India Company and the California gold rush, and underwrote the bonds for North Sea oil drilling. Of that group, just Rothschild and Lazard operate in anything approaching their old form. And neither is likely to touch a client with less than half a billion dollars a year in annual revenue.
 Nonetheless, to Mr. Ferguson, who started his career at Hambros, the classic merchant-banking formula of trusted advice and access to growth capital seemed to be exactly what the small businesses in his adopted country were missing. 
 In the summer of 2005, the banker, now 52, was serving out a noncompete agreement after a long time as senior managing director at Putnam Investments and sitting on nonprofit boards advising small businesses in working-class neighborhoods of Boston. 
 When he learned how many of the companies used credit cards as their capital, he called a fellow board member, Ronald L. Walker, then at Sovereign Bank and one of the most senior African-American commercial lending executives in New England, and asked what he thought about starting a small-business merchant bank and whether there would be enough clients.
 ''My first reaction was, 'What's a merchant bank?' '' Mr. Walker said. ''But my second reaction, because I ran the small-business portfolio at Sovereign, was, absolutely, there were plenty of businesses who'd be interested.''
 Today, the bank lists more than 50 companies as clients. Much of its time, especially in the early stages of a relationship, is spent encouraging entrepreneurs to challenge assumptions about their operations.
 ''You'd be amazed at how often, when you ask a business owner what's the most profitable area of your business, they don't know,'' Mr. Walker said. ''They know what areas bring in the most revenue, but when you really break down their cost structure and profit margins, it's a revelation.''
 The merchant bank's services, which are usually billed on a retainer ranging from $5,000 to $25,000 a month, run the gamut from big-picture strategy of the sort offered by a McKinsey & Company or Bain & Company to organizational psychology to the kind of intimate, delicate counsel usually tendered only by the closest consigliere.
 Last fall, for example, Beth Williams, chief executive of Roxbury Technology, the remanufacturer of toner cartridges, called on Next Street to help her deal with the discovery that a senior executive had embezzled half a million dollars. ''My first call was to my lawyer,'' she said. ''My second was to Next Street.''
 Another client, Larry O'Toole, chief executive of Gentle Giant Moving, relied on Next Street to manage the hiring process after his longtime chief financial officer was wooed away. 
 ''I don't have formal financial training, so I lean heavily on my C.F.O.,'' Mr. O'Toole said. ''I got 70 resumes in. They all looked great to me, but the person they found was incredible. In fact, he's really more of a Fortune 400 C.F.O. who'd be making $400,000 a year but, fortunately for me, had already done the big-company thing.'' 
 Clearly, though, capital remains a priority. The majority of job creation is predicted to come from small companies in the years ahead. The Obama administration has acknowledged the prospect by holding a White House meeting on the issue recently and unveiling several programs aimed at encouraging banks to lend. As the Mitchell Properties example illustrates, however, that the programs exist does not mean private-sector companies will figure out how to exploit them without intermediaries like Next Street. 
 Like the merchant banks of old, Next Street is also putting its own capital to work. Several early loans totaling roughly $5 million were made directly off the bank's balance sheet, and it is raising a $100 million small-business investment fund. 
 Next Street is the first to concede, though, that its model can be done on a large scale only if other investors participate. It is interesting to note that even the recent commitment by Goldman Sachs of $500 million for small-business education, loans and grants is primarily coming from the investment bank's foundation. It is an act of charity (and a grand public relations gesture), not investment banking.
 ''We feel strongly that the small-business market deserves access to the same level of advice and capital as larger companies,'' Mr. Ferguson said. ''But, until now, the attitude has been, why focus on it? The deals are too small. We can't make enough money.'' 
 It is a provocative proposal for addressing the nation's employment and small-business credit crisis: Bring back the merchant bank -- and, of course, explain what it is.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tim Ferguson, left, and Ronald L. Walker, the founders of Next Street, a modern version of the merchant bank, at its Boston office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERCHANT BANKING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (74%); RETAILERS (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); SEASONAL WORKERS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



682 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Charges Lawyer With Capital Crime

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
Intensifying a crackdown on dissent in advance of a Communist Party Congress, Vietnam has charged a prominent American-educated human rights lawyer and at least two associates with the capital crime of subversion, the official press reported on Wednesday.
 The lawyer, Le Cong Dinh, 41, was arrested in June along with four other pro-democracy campaigners. All had at first faced the less severe charge of spreading antigovernment propaganda, which is more commonly brought against dissidents. 
 Two months later, a shaky video showed Mr. Dinh sitting in his shirt sleeves at a small, bare table and reading a handwritten confession aloud as his jailers shuffled around noisily off-camera.
 ''I regret my wrong actions,'' Mr. Dinh said, looking down at the text. ''I wish the state to consider clemency for me.''
 That confession and similar ones by other dissidents are part of a crackdown that human rights groups say has included dozens of arrests and prison terms.
 In October, nine people were sentenced to prison terms ranging from two to six years for hanging banners that called for multiparty democracy.
 Diplomats and political analysts say the arrests are meant not only to punish but also to set the boundaries for discussion in advance of the next Communist Party Congress, set for early 2011.
 ''It's a shot across the bow in advance of the congress to tell people to keep their heads down,'' said Carlyle B. Thayer, a specialist on Vietnam at the Australian Defense Force Academy in Canberra. ''Now is not the time for you to advocate political liberalization.''
 The arrests have drawn condemnation from Western governments and human rights groups, putting the Vietnamese government on the defensive.
 On a visit to Slovakia a week ago, President Nguyen Minh Triet said Vietnam should not be subject to the standards of the West.
 ''Laws of each country are different,'' he said. ''They are based on the different historical and geographical conditions, and that is why it is impossible to implement the laws of one state in the other country.'' 
 Vietnam officially gave up Communist economics in 1986 with a policy called ''doi moi,'' or economic renovation, and it has been liberalizing its economy since then, joining the World Trade Organization in 2007.
 But as Vietnam moves away from Communist orthodoxy in parallel with China, analysts said, there are people, particularly among a lower-ranking younger generation, who believe that the country is stable and prosperous enough now to loosen its political system.
 As factions struggle over the wording and substance of the policies that will emerge from the next party congress, the voices for liberalization are pushing to be heard both within Vietnam and among an active anti-Communist diaspora that is making vigorous use of the Internet.
 The crackdown has sought to contain those voices, introducing tighter limits on press freedom and on Internet discussion sites, including political blogs. Access to Facebook has recently been restricted.
 At a meeting of World Bank donor nations this month, the United States ambassador to Vietnam, Michael W. Michalak, spoke of a ''shrinking of the space for honest, reliable information,'' Agence France-Presse reported.
 The charges against Mr. Dinh illustrate a concern, periodically repeated in the official press, over what is seen as a destabilizing influence of contacts with the West -- ''peaceful evolution'' is the Chinese and Vietnamese term. The warnings point to the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and to peaceful uprisings that brought down governments in places like Ukraine and Georgia.
 Among the accusations against Mr. Dinh was that in March he attended a three-day training course in Thailand, sponsored by an overseas Vietnamese political group, at which two Serbians made presentations about methods of peaceful change.
 According to a report Wednesday in the newspaper Thanh Nien, Mr. Dinh and his associates ''colluded with Vietnamese reactionary groups and hostile forces in exile'' to form a reactionary political organization ''aimed at overthrowing the people's government through nonviolent means.''
 Mr. Dinh and his colleagues are expected to go on trial soon under Article 79 of the Penal Code, ''carrying out activities aimed at overthrowing the people's administration.'' 
 Mr. Dinh, who studied law at Tulane University in New Orleans for two years on a Fulbright scholarship, has often met with diplomats and other foreigners.
 He has served as the vice chairman of the Ho Chi Minh City bar association and acted on behalf of the government several years ago when he successfully represented Vietnamese catfish farmers in a dispute with American fishermen.
 More recently his activities have taken on a political tone, and he has published pro-democracy essays on the Internet and defended human rights lawyers accused of antigovernment propaganda. Among other things, according to the charges against him, Mr. Dinh used his platform as a defense lawyer to speak out about human rights.
 In a 2007 court appearance, he reportedly said, ''Talking about democracy and human rights cannot be seen as antigovernment unless the government itself is against democracy.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (62%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (54%) AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) VIET NAM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SLOVAKIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



683 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Report Criticizes U.S. Effort Against Drugs in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The United States-led counternarcotics effort in Afghanistan, viewed as critical to halting the flow of funds to the Taliban and curtailing corruption, lacks a long-term strategy, clear objectives and a plan for handing over responsibility to Afghans, the State Department inspector general said in a report released Wednesday. 
 ''The department has not clarified an end state for counternarcotics efforts, engaged in long-term planning or established performance measures,'' said the 63-page report, which evaluates work done by the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs of the State Department.
 The report said that military and civilian antidrug programs lacked clearly delineated roles, and that civilian contracts for counternarcotics work were poorly written and largely supervised from thousands of miles away. It also said that cooperation between the United States Embassies in Kabul, Afghanistan, and Islamabad, Pakistan, was limited, adding, ''This lack of cooperation is due, in part, to Embassy Islamabad's conclusion that there is no connection between illicit narcotics and the insurgency in Pakistan.''
 The success -- or failure -- of drug-control efforts is critical to President Obama's plan for Afghanistan, where he hopes an increase in troops will deliver a blow to the resurgent militants of the Taliban and Al Qaeda. The Taliban finance their operations partly through the illicit drug trade, taking in up to $400 million a year. 
 The report called it ''essential'' that a force controlled by the Afghan government take the lead in the antidrug fight. But it added that the State Department had no clear ''strategy for transitioning and exiting from counternarcotics programs in Afghanistan.''
 United States officials have harshly criticized corruption, much of it drug-related, in President Hamid Karzai's government.
 Despite what it says is a consensus that eradication of poppy crops is essential, the report noted a midyear decision by the State Department to shift from eradication efforts to financing interdiction of drug traffickers.
 The report said that while contractors, doing work as varied as crop eradication and educating farmers on poppy alternatives, are generally meeting agreed-upon goals, their contracts include vague performance measures.
 While much of the report was critical, it also listed the profound handicaps facing those involved in the drug eradication efforts, ''including a weak justice system, corruption and the lack of political will'' in the Afghan government, as well as the overpowering economic incentives that lead impoverished farmers to grow poppies.
 Among other things, the report recommended setting ''a defined end state'' for counternarcotics programs; establishing benchmarks for the shift to an Afghan takeover of those programs; and establishing monitoring inside the country of contractors.
 The report was based on meetings with embassy personnel in Kabul and Islamabad, visits to Kabul and four Afghan provinces, and meetings with officials of the United Nations, the United States military and coalition members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DRUG INTERDICTION (90%); TALIBAN (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (75%); OPIUM (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (75%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



684 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths LUSTERMAN, SEYMOUR

 BODY:
LUSTERMAN--Seymour, a former public affairs researcher for the Conference Board, and co-author with James K. Brown of the 1971 landmark study of black capitalism, Business and the Development of Ghetto Enterprise, as well as several other seminal works on corporate and public affairs, died Monday, December 14, in Valhalla, New York. He was 90. In 1968, Mr. Lusterman abandoned an established career in advertising and marketing, having served as the first Vice President for Market Research at the Pepsi Cola Company and later as Media Director for the boutique advertising agency, Gumbinner, North, to return to the field of economic research, in which he had earned a Bachelor of Arts degree at New York University in 1940 and the Master of Arts at Columbia University in 1942. Over several decades with the Conference Board, he wrote Educating Students for Work, Education in Industry, Minorities in Engineering, and several other studies of the corporate role in education, health care, and government relations. Seymour Lusterman was born on September 15, 1919 in the Bronx, where he attended public elementary schools and DeWitt Clinton High School. His father, Alexander Lusterman, conducted his dental practice on the Grand Concourse. 
Beginning in his student days, Mr. Lusterman became active in progressive politics and remained so for many years, volunteering in the Henry Wallace presidential campaign of 1948, among others, and supporting the anti-Vietnam-war platform of presidential candidate Eugene McCarthy in 1968. He entered military service in 1941, earning the rank of 1st Lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, serving in the Philippines and Japan until his discharge in 1946. On December 11, 1943, Mr. Lusterman married Martha Crovitz of Providence, Rhode Island, who survives him and to whom he was a loving and devoted husband. He is also survived by his beloved immediate family members: his brother Leon Lusterman of Bayside, Queens, his daughters, Laura Ferguson of Manhattan and Alice DelDonno of Lexington, Massachusetts, and his son, David A. Lusterman of San Anselmo, California, as well as his cherished grandchildren, Leo Ferguson, Elizabeth Lusterman, Joseph Lusterman, Sophie DelDonno, and Carlo Del Donno. Mr. Lusterman inherited a lifelong love of music and performance from his mother, Dora; he played several musical instruments and sang for many years in the Westchester Choral Society, where he also served as a board member. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); WRITERS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); FAMILY (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ARMIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (68%); VIETNAM WAR (65%); MUSIC (65%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (52%)

COMPANY: PEPSI-COLA CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



685 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 VIETNAM CHARGES LAWYER
 In Capital Offense
 Intensifying a crackdown on dissent before a Communist Party Congress, Vietnam has charged a human rights lawyer, Le Cong Dinh, and at least two associates with subversion, a capital crime. PAGE A10 
 VATICAN DEFENDS DECISION 
 The Vatican said Pope Benedict XVI's decision to move Pius XII closer to sainthood was not a ''hostile act'' against those who believe Pius did not do enough to stop the Holocaust. PAGE A8 
 AFGHAN SENATOR KILLED
 Policemen killed an Afghan senator, Mohammed Younus, and his driver in Baghlan Province after their car did not stop at a checkpoint, the Ministry of Interior said. PAGE A11 
 IRANIANS GATHER TO MOURN
 Clashes erupted in Isfahan, Iran, between security forces and protesters who were gathering at a mosque to mourn the death of Grand Ayatollah Hussein Ali Montazeri. PAGE A11 
 HEIGHT IN SOUTH KOREA
 Swayed by the popular conviction that height is crucial to success, South Korean parents are trying all manner of remedies to increase their children's stature. PAGE A6 
 Iraqi Religious Groups Attacked A11 
 National
 STATES URGED TO ABOLISH THE ELECTION OF JUDGES
 A group of judges, political officials and lawyers, led by the retired Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, has begun a campaign to persuade states to pick judges on merit, not through elections. PAGE A12 
 NO VOTING FRAUD BY ACORN
 A report on the community group Acorn by the Congressional Research Service found no evidence of fraudulent voting or of violations of federal financing rules. PAGE A15 
 New York
 A NEW FIRE COMMISSIONER
 Prepares to Take Over
 In announcing Salvatore Cassano's appointment as the city's fire commissioner, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg made much of the four decades that Mr. Cassano has spent in the Fire Department. But he is more than a department lifer: he is a war veteran, a grandfather, a baseball fan, a New Yorker. PAGE A16
 RECOVERING FROM A FIRE
 A fire on Tuesday destroyed the Morris Park Boxing Club, leaving Aaron Davis, who runs the venerable gym, to pick up the pieces and find some stability for the young boxers in his stable. PAGE A17
 Business
 E-MAIL DELAYS AGAIN
 Plague BlackBerry Users
 A major disruption of BlackBerry e-mail and Internet service -- the second failure in less than a week -- could lead users to switch to another smartphone, threatening the BlackBerry's market-leading position. PAGE B1
 A CULTURE CLASH IN CHINA
 As more Americans go to mainland China to take jobs, more Chinese and Americans are working side by side. The cross-cultural partnerships are highlighting tensions that expose differences in work experience, pay levels and communication. PAGE B1
 REFINERS' FORTUNES SINK
 The business of oil refining is mired in a deep crisis, with five refineries having shut down this year. Gasoline demand is down sharply, and refiners worry that even after the economy recovers, demand will not grow because of the rise of alternative fuels and tougher efficiency standards for cars. PAGE B1
 McDonald's Selects an 'Idol' B3
 Consumer Spending Rises B3
 Sports
 NEW LIFE AT S.M.U. 
 With a Bowl to Play
 Southern Methodist University will make its first postseason appearance since the program was heavily sanctioned for violating N.C.A.A. rules 25 years ago. Joe Drape, an S.M.U. alumnus, writes that he will be pulling for the Mustangs, but adds that the program deserved its ignominy. Reporter's Notebook. PAGE B11
 Schumacher Returns to Racing B11
 Arts
 A PLAYWRIGHT AND DIRECTOR 
 Find Their Own Dialogue
 There is no law or contract that says Daniel Aukin must direct all of Melissa James Gibson's plays and only her plays; it just seems that way. Ms. Gibson's ''This,'' at Playwrights Horizons in Manhattan, is their fifth collaboration, which means they have repeatedly survived the ego-bruising gantlet of bringing a play from page to stage. PAGE C1
 A MEDIEVAL CHRISTMAS
 Lionheart, the early-music vocal sextet, performed its holiday concert at the Medieval Sculpture Hall of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which Allan Kozinn writes is a perfect setting: its architecture and the statuary it holds are of the right period, and its resonant acoustics flatter the ensemble's already rich sound. PAGE C1
 Home
 TURNING EVERY STONE
 For a Perfect Fit
 Jeffrey Bale, a self-taught mosaicist with a two-year waiting list, has become something of a garden guru on the West Coast, advocating sustainable yet sumptuous landscape design with elaborate pieces. PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 SWEATING WITH A CELEBRITY:
 It's Richard Simmons!
 At Richard Simmons' fitness studio in Beverly Hills, the exercise maven functions as a drill sergeant, standup comedian, and self-help guru all at once. PAGE E1
 A HOLIDAY FROM CHRISTMAS
 Largely by economic necessity, many people have been trimming their gift lists. But some -- less-than-excited about the pressure to find the perfect present and the prospect of family drama over roast turkey -- are opting out of the festivities entirely. PAGE E1 
 Op-ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); RELIGION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); HOLOCAUST (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (64%); SPORTS FANS (62%); BASEBALL (62%); GASOLINE (61%); BOXING (61%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (54%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (52%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (72%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (56%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



686 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Presses U.S. for More Aid for Needy California

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has taken advantage of the holiday lull before the next state budget storm to serve notice on the federal government that he will come looking for billions more in aid. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, also hinted that he might extend furloughs for state workers beyond next summer and revive a contentious plan to allow oil drilling off the Santa Barbara County coast. Budget advisers have also discussed paring corporate tax breaks that Republican lawmakers have insisted on.
 The governor is expected to unveil a proposal to right the state's dismal finances in early January. But pieces of the plan are trickling out, including a threat to severely crimp or eliminate the state's welfare program and services to disabled and elderly residents if the federal government does not come through with help.
 Administration officials, in preliminary discussions with state lawmakers and other Sacramento officials on how to close a projected $20.7 billion deficit, were pledging to push hard for as much as $8 billion from the federal government.
 In a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday, Mr. Schwarzenegger focused much of his attention on recouping some of the costs of the pending health care overhaul.
 He said the bills in Congress would cost California $4 billion to $5 billion. California, he said, suffers from federal reimbursement and eligibility rules that place residents in welfare and health programs administered by the state but without enough money from the federal government to cover them.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger said he counted himself a supporter of the effort to revamp health care, but, he wrote, ''if Congress fails to address the existing unfunded mandates and adds yet another layer, federal health care reform could collapse the very safety net system it seeks to expand.''
 Mr. Schwarzenegger's complaints closely matched those that Democratic members of New York's Congressional delegation sent to Ms. Pelosi and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada.
 Brendan Daly, a spokesman for Ms. Pelosi, issued a statement that promised to address the concerns when the House and Senate bills are reconciled. ''Our goal is to ensure that all states are treated fairly,'' Mr. Daly said.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger has often vented about the burdens placed on the state by the federal government, not only by health and welfare programs but also costs associated with prisons and immigration enforcement.
 More than a year ago, when the state was running out of money during the credit crisis, it advised the Treasury Department that it was considering asking for a $7 billion loan, but ultimately did not. This year, federal stimulus money helped stave off drastic cuts statewide.
 Stephen Levy, director of the Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy, said California and other states were shortchanged billions of dollars in federal aid but had not presented a unified message that would force Congress to act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (54%); AGING (54%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (92%); NANCY PELOSI (77%); HARRY REID (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009



687 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Financial Giants, Diminished

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
Crisis brings out the best in some people, or so it is said. It certainly produced some excellent books this year.
 What follows is my list of six for 2009, books that I found informative and enjoyable this year. Three of the books cover aspects of financial history, including one on the greatest capitalists ever and two on the era that led to the Great Depression. The other three deal with how economics went astray.
 It is not necessarily a best of 2009 list, in part because it purposely excludes books by my colleagues at The New York Times. But all are books I recommend with enthusiasm.
 The books are discussed in alphabetical order, by author. 
 We are now in the midst of the second great disenchantment with previously omniscient central bankers, a fact that echoes through more than a few of this year's books. In ''Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World,'' Liaquat Ahamed tells the story of how the Great Depression began by focusing on the four revered central bankers of the 1920s -- Montagu Norman of Britain, Hjalmar Schacht of Germany, Emile Moreau of France and Benjamin Strong of the United States. ''They were all great lords of finance, standard-bearers of an orthodoxy that seemed to imprison them,'' writes Mr. Ahamed.
 To Mr. Ahamed, the Depression was not an economic earthquake, but a result of a series of bad policy decisions, beginning with the peace conference that ended World War I. He traces those decisions in detail, along with prescient warnings from John Maynard Keynes, whose views were largely ignored time and again. He ends the book with a famous statement by Keynes, that economists are the ''trustees, not of civilization, but of the possibility of civilization.'' 
 How did the economists fail so badly as trustees in the years running up to this financial crisis? Part of the answer is that one of the greatest economists of the 20th century, Hyman Minsky, was forgotten. It was Minsky who identified the way financial stability can breed overconfidence and thus produce the very types of market failures that created the crisis. But he was not a mathematical genius, and thus was out of the mainstream of postwar economics. 
 It became possible to get a Ph.D. in economics without ever hearing of Minsky. If Alan Greenspan and Ben Bernanke knew of him, they certainly disregarded his theories, to the detriment of all of us. 
 In ''The Cost of Capitalism: Understanding Market Mayhem and Stabilizing our Economic Future,'' Robert J. Barbera, one of the best Wall Street economists, sets out to explain Minsky's importance and, in the process, to demolish some of the absurdities that came from the mathematical models of neoclassical economics, including the belief that, since markets always produce equilibrium, rising unemployment simply reflects a decision by workers to choose leisure rather than work for less. 
 ''Ask an unemployed guy in a bar if he is enjoying his extended vacation,'' Mr. Barbera writes, ''and you may well have asked your last question.''
 John Cassidy, a writer for The New Yorker, knows his Minsky and he knows financial markets too. The result is a lengthy book, ''How Markets Fail: The Logic of Economic Calamities,'' that brilliantly dissects much of what has passed for economic wisdom, and decries the lack of humility from those whose theories helped cause the disaster. 
 Early on, he tells the story of a speech delivered in 2005 to the Kansas City Fed conference at Jackson Hole, Wyo., by Raghuram G. Rajan, then the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, whose warnings about how the system could blow up now seem prescient. He was greeted with scorn. Larry Summers, then the president of Harvard and now an adviser to President Obama, dismissed the paper's premise as ''largely misguided'' and warned it could harm the world by encouraging unwise additional regulation.
 Mr. Cassidy also quotes a column by Harvard's Greg Mankiw, in The Times last May, in which Mr. Mankiw wrote that ''despite the enormity of recent events, the principles of economics are largely unchanged.'' Students, he said, still needed to learn about ''the efficiency properties of market outcomes.''
 Mr. Cassidy asks, ''What do you suppose that refers to? Builders constructing homes for which there is no demand? Mortgage lenders foisting costly subprime loans on little old ladies of limited education?'' Nothing so specific, says Mr. Cassidy. Textbook economics overlooks such inconvenient realities. ''In the world of Utopian economics, the latest crisis of capitalism is always a blip.''
 Larry Summers comes out a lot better in ''The Myth of the Rational Market: A History of Risk, Reward and Delusion on Wall Street,'' by Justin Fox of Time magazine. That is because Mr. Fox focuses on the younger Summers, who delighted in pointing to the illogic of much financial economics. ''He constructed a model of an alternate financial universe in which investors weren't rational and prices didn't reflect fundamental values -- and showed that, over a 50-year observation period, there was no way to differentiate it statistically from a rationally random market,'' Mr. Fox writes.
 Mr. Fox sets out to explain the efficient market hypothesis, a hypothesis that, as Mr. Summers observed, could never be proved but that was accepted as gospel by many economists until behavioral economists like Yale's Robert Shiller pointed to clear evidence that many of us do not act rationally. This perceptive and penetrating book does a good job of tracing how that hypothesis led to the creation of markets that produced excesses and then ceased to function.
 Sometimes history books say as much about the era in which the book is written as about the era being described. So it is in ''The Match King: Ivar Kreuger, the Financial Genius Behind a Century of Wall Street Scandals,'' by Frank Partnoy, a law professor at the University of San Diego who has written previous books critical of the Wall Street where he once worked.
 Kreuger was one of the most celebrated international financiers of the 1920s, a man who grew his family's Swedish match company in part by lending money to governments in turn for match monopolies. Investors lined up to entrust money to him; presidents and prime ministers sought his counsel. He started a movie company and discovered a Swedish teenager named Greta Gustafson, who changed her name to Garbo.
 Then his empire collapsed, and he was denounced as a crook.
 The truth, as Mr. Partnoy concludes after going through many previously unexamined records, is more complex. He expresses doubt that Kreuger could have been convicted of fraud if he had not died first, apparently from suicide. There were more assets than at first appeared when accountants concluded Kreuger had simply been a fraud.
 It is a tale with more than a few similarities to the present, Mr. Partnoy writes. ''Start with massive undisclosed risks on Wall Street; magnify those risks with excess leverage; pyramid that leverage with complex new financial instruments few people understand; pay bankers and accountants small fortunes to look the other way; and then watch helplessly as prices plunge and investors realize their savings are built on sand.''
 Commodore Vanderbilt, as he came to be known, has long deserved a great biography, and now has one. ''The First Tycoon: The Epic Life of Cornelius Vanderbilt,'' by T. J. Stiles, describes an uneducated man who revolutionized transportation in America.
 Entrepreneurs who destroy accepted ways of business with something new tend to be young, or at least not to have much of a stake in the status quo. But Vanderbilt was a very successful steamship operator, and was in his late 60s when he decided to get into the railroad business. It was his consolidation of the great New York Central that provided the wealth that later Vanderbilts would spend so ostentatiously.
 He did much more than wheel and deal, more than compete viciously when others would not cooperate. ''Vanderbilt's consolidation of one railroad company into another into an empire would mark a profound change in the nature of the corporation itself,'' Mr. Stiles wrote. ''He would strip it of its remaining public character as he finished the long process of converting it into a vehicle for private gain alone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Three of the six books published in 2009 that take on greater significance because of the current economic turmoil.(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); WRITERS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); MODELING & SIMULATION (60%); MATHEMATICS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (52%); WORLD WAR I (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (55%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (70%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



688 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Is Down From Its Peak, but Lives Remain in Its Grip

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate dropped to 10 percent in November, down from a 16-year high of 10.3 percent in October, the State Labor Department reported last week. 
 It is a sign that the worst of the job losses from the current recession may have passed. Yet the crisis of unemployment, and the resulting financial and emotional distress for those affected, are far from over. 
 Here are three people who became jobless in the recent downturn, and accounts of how The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund was able to provide vital help at a crucial moment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



689 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Why an R? Well, It's Complicated

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The romantic comedy ''It's Complicated'' arrived at the multiplex on Friday complete with an R rating, ranking it in the same category as ''The Texas Chainsaw Massacre'' and ''Basic Instinct'' in the eyes of the Motion Picture Association of America.
 But there is no violence in ''It's Complicated,'' and the bedroom scenes are decidedly tame by contemporary standards. Instead, the R rating -- which experts say could limit the box-office potential of the Universal Pictures film -- comes largely from a sequence in which Steve Martin and Meryl Streep smoke marijuana. 
 Giggles ensue.
 The rating has kicked up dust in Hollywood, with movie bloggers starting blistering attacks on the M.P.A.A. for being out of touch. The marijuana lobby is equally miffed. ''This is an absurd ruling rooted in old cultural thinking,'' said Allen St. Pierre, executive director of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. Universal and Mr. Martin unsuccessfully appealed, seeking a PG-13 rating.
 Conservative groups, meanwhile, find themselves in the rare position of cheering the ratings system instead of condemning it. Dan Isett, director of public policy for the Parents Television Council, which also monitors movies, said ''It's Complicated'' was a ''rare instance'' of the board getting a rating correct.
 ''The last I checked, smoking pot was still illegal, illicit behavior,'' he said. ''Too often material gets rated lower than it should be.''
 Figuring prominently in the brouhaha are other depictions of marijuana in cinema, particularly the scene in the 1980 comedy ''9 to 5'' showing Dolly Parton, Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin getting high and raiding the refrigerator. Its rating was PG.
 ''This demonstrates a real hilarity and inconsistency, especially given how far the medical marijuana movement has come,'' said Martin Kaplan, the director of the Norman Lear Center for the study of entertainment and society at the University of Southern California.
 The rumpus comes amid informal discussion about tweaking the ratings formula, particularly where R is involved. The M.P.A.A., a trade organization financed by the major studios, has ruminated about dividing the R rating into new categories. Already, the industry refers informally to movies that are ''soft R'' or ''hard R.''
 Nancy Meyers, who directed the film, declined to comment, as did Universal and the film's producers.
 But financial forces are at work against any changes. If the difference between a PG-13 and an R rating can be tens of millions of dollars at the box office, the last thing studios want is to slice the pie thinner. ''In general, the more child-friendly the rating is -- even for movies that might not be aimed at teenagers -- the more tickets you sell,'' said S. Abraham Ravid, a business professor at Rutgers University who has published many studies on movie economics.
 Joan Graves, the chairwoman of the film industry's Classification and Rating Administration, declined to comment on ''It's Complicated,'' citing internal policy barring the public discussion of a specific picture. But she dismissed criticism of her board members.
 ''They react the way that most people react,'' she said. ''America is not just two coasts.''
 Some in the industry see something deeper at work, arguing that the trade organization is on its best behavior because it has a lame-duck leader in Dan Glickman (who is to step down as chief executive in September) and because Congressional elections will take place next year. The Federal Trade Commission harshly criticized the movie industry this month for inappropriately advertising movies with PG-13 and R ratings to children.
 It was not specifically the actual drug use that got ''It's Complicated,'' about a divorced woman who has an affair with her remarried ex-husband, into this pickle, according to people with knowledge of how the decision was reached. Instead, the ratings board was concerned about what the movie did not have: a negative consequence for the behavior. (Ms. Graves said that ''no scrutiny or outside influence impacts the rating of any film -- period.'')
 The board, according to these people, thought the scene was uproariously funny and could leave children with a strong message that smoking marijuana is fun. The opposite, of course, could be argued: One way to make young people think that marijuana is uncool is to show the white-haired Mr. Martin, 64, smoking it.
 This emphasis on consequences has long been part of how Hollywood has navigated taboo subjects, dating back to the Hays Code era, said Robert Sklar, an emeritus professor of cinema studies at New York University and the author of ''Movie-Made America.'' ''If somebody transgressed -- infidelity, alcoholism -- they had to pay for it,'' he said.
 The M.P.A.A. is often accused by conservative groups of ''ratings creep,'' a loosening of standards as the years go on, and of pandering to the studios, which resist R ratings because it could limit the audience. But ''It's Complicated'' may be an example of the reverse.
 Ms. Graves said the board has grown more strict about drug use over the last two decades. ''In the '60s and '70s, drugs were considered fun and recreational, but then parents started to wise up and standards shifted the other way,'' she said.
 In other words, ''9 to 5'' was born of a different cultural time. 
 It is hard to argue, however, that cannabis has become anything but more routine over the years. There are now about 1,000 medical marijuana dispensaries in the Los Angeles area alone, according to city estimates; as a point of reference, there are fewer than 300 Starbucks outposts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In one scene in ''It's Complicated,'' the characters played by Meryl Streep and Steve Martin smoke marijuana and get giggly.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MELINDA SUE GORDON/UNIVERSAL PICTURES)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RATINGS (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); COMEDY FILMS (89%); CANNABIS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); PARENTING (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); DRUG POLICY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (69%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (54%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL PICTURES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR THE REFORM OF MARIJUANA LAWS (55%)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



690 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: No Work, Two Children and a Mounting Pile of Bills

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
When her supervisor asked her to go for a walk, Theone Ferron, an office manager at a pharmaceutical company, feared the worst. 
 Her company had already laid off about a quarter of its employees. And by the end of her walk with her boss, Ms. Ferron had joined the ranks of the jobless, let go without any severance pay. She was eight months pregnant with her second child.
 ''It was emotional and scary,'' said Ms. Ferron, 26, in her dark two-room apartment in the Bronx. ''But at that moment, I had to focus on the pregnancy.'' 
 After her baby was born, in April, a son she named Keith, it was time to worry, she said. Without her $17,500 annual salary and with little savings, she wondered how they would survive. 
 Her father and aunts have provided emotional and practical support. But neither they, nor the fathers of her newborn and another son, have been able to help her financially. ''It was up to me to pick myself up,'' she said. A month after bringing Keith home, she began looking for work.
 Initially, she sought a position similar to the one she had lost, but without success. ''There are just too many executives who are willing to take a step down and do that work,'' she said. 
 She was turned down for a waitress's job at an Applebee's restaurant because she had not finished college, she said, a rejection that still makes her shake her head. ''Can you believe they wanted a degree just to wait tables?''
 She wanted to return to school so she could fulfill a long-held goal to be a special-education teacher. ''I want to share my experiences bringing up an autistic son,'' she said, looking down at her 7-year-old, Blake, as he played at her feet, sending a little red car back and forth across the worn hardwood floor. 
 ''He's a happy child, but he can be aggressive,'' she said. ''It's difficult. You don't know if he's acting out because he is a kid or because he is autistic.''
 She was ineligible for new student loans, she learned, unless she paid back a previous student loan. It was not a large sum -- $486 -- but paying it seemed impossible for a person surviving on $232 in unemployment, $262.78 in Supplemental Security Income benefits for Blake and $500 in food stamps, and paying $850 a month for rent and utilities. 
 By August, she was three months behind on her rent and six months behind on her Con Edison bill, and the electricity was disconnected. 
 Though she worked out a payment plan with Con Edison, her power remained off because the landlord refused to fix a problem with the fuses until she paid the overdue rent. 
 ''That didn't seem legal,'' she said. She called 311 to complain. 
 An inspector came to the apartment and found numerous violations: lead paint, fire hazards, missing window guards. Her landlord was fined, but she still faced eviction.
 She was given the phone number for Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. A social worker there helped her enroll in a state program that will subsidize her rent until she is able to get a government rent subsidy. The social worker also drew $486 from the Neediest Cases Fund to pay the outstanding student loan and an additional $399 to buy Ms. Ferron a computer.
 That assistance has opened up her future, she said. Early next year, she will start taking college classes online. She will incur more student loans, but with the prospect of becoming a special-education teacher once she completes her degree, she is confident that this time she will be able to pay them off.
 ''I am very grateful for the help,'' she said. ''Without it, I don't know what would have happened, where we would be. I am glad I don't know.''
 Previously recorded $3.243,507 Recorded Wed. 101,539 Total $3,345,046 Last year to date $3,748,460 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Theone Ferron with her sons, Keith, left, and Blake, in the Bronx apartment that she was able to keep with assistance from the Neediest Cases Fund. She also got help paying off an old loan, which enabled her to return to school. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged
 special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (63%); AUTISM (62%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (50%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



691 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'ONLY IN NEW YORK'; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Back When 'Look' Meant A Magazine

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
What will the magazine of the future look like? Revisiting an earlier period in print culture, when magazines evolved into sophisticated photo-delivery systems, is a good way to get in the mood to ponder touch screens and digital newsstands. 
 In the Museum of the City of New York's smartly packaged book and exhibition ''Only in New York: Photographs From Look Magazine,'' you can see how one publication catered to voracious consumers of images. Look's founding editor and publisher, Gardner Cowles, created it in 1937, to meet what the magazine called ''the tremendous unfilled demand for extraordinary news and feature pictures.'' 
 Look, in circulation until 1971, was modeled on European magazines like the French Vu and the German Berliner Illustrirte Zeitung. It was more mainstream than Vogue and Harper's Bazaar, more photo driven than Life, and more New York-centric than all of them. It had a little bit of everything: fashion, celebrity, crime, human interest. A contemporary equivalent might be New York magazine, in boosterish special-issue mode.
 Magazines like Look, and its rival Life, thrived on an expanding economy and the attendant fantasy of upward mobility. Editors lured advertisers with the promise of ''reader interest for yourself, for your wife, for your private secretary, for your office boy.'' It's hard to imagine a contemporary publication using the same sales pitch; general-interest magazines like Newsweek have refashioned themselves for niche markets, if they haven't disappeared entirely.
 The book and show draw from the museum's trove of some 200,000 images from Look, donated by Cowles Magazines beginning in the 1950s. Many of these images are in the form of negatives, contact sheets and transparencies, which can be a challenge to exhibit.
 The curators, Donald Albrecht and Thomas Mellins, have instead chosen to install large fabric screens with photographic reproductions -- basically, a walk-in magazine.
 Most of the screens hew closely to the layouts in the book, which in turn echo the combinations of large and small photographs that were characteristic of Look. The material, in any form, is fascinating (though it's disappointing that only three copies of the actual magazine are on view).
 On the book's cover, for instance, is an arresting image taken at a performance staged for the magazine by Salvador Dali. In it he uses a bent-over-backwards bikini-clad model as a desk, balancing a notebook and a telephone on sensitive parts of her anatomy.
 Many other images in the show and book never made it into the pages of Look, which ran more like a photo agency than a magazine. Its photographers were given freedoms unfathomable to today's penny-pinching publishing executives. As the book notes, this strategy was designed to help the bi-weekly Look compete with the weekly Life by allowing the department to cherry-pick from a wide array of stories. 
 Among the talents Look attracted was a young Stanley Kubrick, who sold his first photograph to the magazine at the age of 16 and continued to work for it for five years. In his images of prizefighters and showgirls, New York is a noirish, not-quite-believable backdrop, as it was in Kubrick's much later film ''Eyes Wide Shut.''
 Even his sunnier assignments have a suspenseful edge. He was one of three photographers assigned to cover the spectacle of a Midtown billboard painter working, high up on a scaffold, from a live model. The other shooters focused on the woman and the product, the Peter Pan bra company's ''Merry-Go-Round'' (slogan: ''The secret's in the circle!''). Kubrick took close-ups of the gobsmacked people on the ground.
 In between stunts like this one the magazine relied on famous faces. Portraits of models and entertainers, typified by a primping Lisa Fonssagrives and a leaping Ray Bolger, were Look's bread and butter.
 On occasion movers and shakers in other industries received the celebrity treatment. In one photograph from 1957 the Museum of Modern Art director Rene D'Harnoncourt poses in a room full of objects from the design collection. Published in a special New York issue, it was accompanied by an article titled ''The Taste-Shaper.''
 That issue, from Feb. 18, 1958, is on view at the museum -- open to a color spread on Park Avenue construction, captured by the longtime Look contributor Arthur Rothstein. It's as if the buildings are going up faster than he can photograph them, an effect Rothstein exaggerated in other pictures taken with a fish-eye lens.
 The magazine made tentative forays beyond Manhattan, in two markedly different stories on Brooklyn. The first one, ''The Brooklyn Nobody Knows,'' challenged the borough's sleepy residential image with shots of cultural figures and institutions. The second, ''Could This Happen to Your Boy?,'' focused on the neighbors of four murder suspects from Brooklyn and adopted a more sensationalist tone. 
 Such negative stories were rare. Look promoted the city as a place of luck, vigor and spontaneous affection, a la Cartier-Bresson's Paris. One starry-eyed series from 1947, ''Love Is Everywhere,'' showed couples kissing in stairwells and on fire escapes and park benches.
 By the 1970s the city's charm had faded. So had Look. The circumstances of its death sound eerily familiar: a new medium (television) siphoning advertising dollars, the rising costs of paper and printing, a hobbled economy.
 A trip through the Look archives won't answer the trickier, economic questions now stumping publishers. In other ways, though, ''Only in New York'' is heartening. It reminds you that drastic changes in visual culture can spawn successful magazines -- and hints that strong images, in some form or another, will always have a place.
 ''Only in New York: Photographs From Look Magazine'' continues through April 10 at the Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street; (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Only in New York Photographs from Look magazine are at the Museum of the City of New York. Above, Frank Bauman's image of dancers at the Palladium Ballroom in 1961. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK BAUMAN/MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, LOOK COLLECTION)(C29)
Lovers on a New York fire escape, captured by Stanley Kubrick in 1947 for Look magazine, a gallery for photographers from 1937 to 1971. Above left, Salvador Dali uses a moveable table in a 1947 photograph by Bob Sandberg. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STANLEY KUBRICK/MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, LOOK COLLECTION
 BOB SANDBERG/MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, LOOK COLLECTION) (C32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



692 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Leave The State, Pushing Up Population

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
New York State's population grew faster in 2009 than in any year since 2001, helped by a slowdown in the number of people who moved out of the state, estimates from the Census Bureau show. 
 But the gain will most likely not be enough to prevent New York from losing at least one Congressional seat when the 2010 census is completed, all but assuring a fight when the Legislature redraws district lines.
 Whether the state loses one or even two of its 29 seats will depend on a number of factors, including whether population changes in other states help offset the small gain expected here in the next year and whether the migration of people out of the state continues to slow. 
 ''As of right now the snapshot indicates that we should only lose one seat,'' said Robert B. Ward, deputy director of the Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York at Albany. ''But the picture may change by the time of the actual census, and it doesn't need to change very much for us to lose a second seat.''
 Mr. Ward added, ''We're pretty much on the bubble between one and two seats.''
 Perhaps somewhat paradoxically, New York could avoid losing a second Congressional seat -- and some of the political clout that comes with having such a large delegation in Washington -- if the economy does not significantly improve.
 Demographers believe that more New Yorkers are staying put because the jobs that were luring them out of the state are no longer available. The state's population loss from people moving away from July 2008 to July 2009 was 98,178, according to the Census Bureau estimates, released this week. That figure is about three-quarters what it was a year earlier.
 The state's population grew over all because the number of births and the number of immigrants who moved in outpaced the number of residents who moved away or died.
 New York State's population was estimated at 19,541,453, up 73,664 from July 2008, or 0.4 percent. In the 2000 census, the state's population was measured at 18,976,457.
 Since then, New York City and its suburbs -- in particular, the West Side of Manhattan, parts of southern Brooklyn and Long Island -- have experienced moderate population growth, while population has decreased in areas around Buffalo and a large swath of the central part of the state, according to an analysis by Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College. 
 As a result, Mr. Beveridge said that upstate New York could lose some of its Congressional representation in the redistricting. ''It's going to be like musical chairs,'' he said. ''The upstate people will be scrambling.''
 Mr. Beveridge's analysis showed that the districts likely to have lost the most residents since 2000 are represented by three Democrats -- Michael A. Arcuri, Brian Higgins and Louise Slaughter -- and one Republican, Christopher J. Lee.
 ''New York is going to lose a seat, and that's certain,'' Mr. Beveridge said, ''I think unless California and the Southwest fall off the continent or something like that.''
 The new Congressional districts must be approved by the Assembly and the Senate and endorsed by the governor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); IMMIGRATION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



693 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: As Revenue Plunges, Stadium Boom Deepens Municipal Woes

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
Years after a wave of construction brought publicly financed stadiums costing billions of dollars to cities across the country, taxpayers are once again being asked to reach into their pockets.
 From New Jersey to Ohio to Arizona, the stadiums were sold as a key to redevelopment and as the only way to retain sports franchises. But the deals that were used to persuade taxpayers to finance their construction have in many cases backfired, the result of overly optimistic revenue assumptions and the recession. 
 Nowhere is the problem more acute than in Cincinnati. In 1996, voters in Hamilton County approved an increase of half of one percent in the sales tax that promised to build and maintain stadiums for the Bengals and the Reds, pay Cincinnati's public schools and give homeowners an annual property tax rebate. The stadiums were supposed to spur development of the city's dilapidated riverfront.
 But sales tax receipts have fallen so fast in the last year that the county is now scrambling to bridge a $14 million deficit in its sales tax fund. The public schools, which deferred taking their share for years, want their money. 
 The teams have not volunteered to rewrite their leases. So in the coming weeks, the county plans to cut basic services, lower its legal bills and drain a bond reserve fund with no plan for paying it back.
 ''Anyone looking at this objectively knows it's a train wreck,'' said Dusty Rhodes, the county auditor. ''I told them they were making a big mistake, but they didn't want to hear me.''
 Cincinnati is hardly alone. In Indianapolis, the Capital Improvement Board spent 2009 trying to find $32 million to run the Lucas Oil Stadium and convention center. In Milwaukee, a drop in sales tax receipts may delay by several years the date for paying off the bonds issued to build Miller Park, the home of the Brewers.
 Columbus, Ohio, is considering using public money to keep the Blue Jackets in town. Glendale, Ariz., has fought to hold the Phoenix Coyotes to their long-term lease. In New Jersey, a ticket surcharge may be added to help resolve a tenant-landlord dispute between the Devils and Newark.
 Mark Rosentraub, the author of the book ''Major League Losers,'' said that many of the stadium deals included ''revenue bombs,'' with financial traps like balloon payments on debt in later years and sweeteners like the Hamilton County property tax rebate to win public support. 
 In many cases, the architects of the deals are long gone by the time the bill comes due. 
 ''This is one of the effects of the economic tsunami sweeping through,'' Rosentraub said of the deficits.
 The 1996 proposal to build stadiums for the Bengals and the Reds had plenty of proponents. The economy was growing, Riverfront Stadium was outdated and the Bengals were hinting that they would move, as the Browns had done.
 The plan went awry almost from the start. The football stadium exceeded its budget by $50 million, forcing the county to issue more bonds. Forecasts for growth in the sales tax turned out to be too rosy. The teams received sweetheart leases. In 2000, voters threw out the county commissioners who cut the deal.
 That year the sales tax grew 1.8 percent, the first of many years below the 3 percent forecast. Both stadiums were originally expected to cost $500 million combined. Yet Paul Brown Stadium alone cost $455 million and the Great American Ballpark, the Reds' home a few hundred yards down the Ohio River, cost $337 million by the time it opened in 2003.
 The generous deal for the Bengals has been a sore spot. The team had to pay rent only through 2009 on its 26-year lease, and has to cover the cost of running the stadium only for game days. Starting in 2017, the county will reimburse the team for these costs, too. The county will pay $8.5 million this year to keep the stadium going.
 The Bengals keep revenue from naming rights, advertising, tickets, suites and most parking. If the county wants to recoup money by taxing tickets, concessions or parking, it needs the team's approval.
 Compared with the lucrative deals for teams in Baltimore, St. Louis and elsewhere, the Bengals won a particularly lopsided lease. 
 Bob Bedinghaus, the commissioner who spearheaded the stadium project, said as much in 2000.
 ''They're an organization that's run by lawyers, and they look for every penny around every corner,'' he told The Cincinnati Enquirer. ''It's going to be a difficult relationship going forward for the next 30 years.''
 Bedinghaus lost his re-election bid soon after. He now works as the Bengals' director of stadium development. Through a team spokesman, Bedinghaus declined to be interviewed. The Bengals also declined to comment. Several telephone and e-mail attempts to reach the Reds' management were unsuccessful. 
 Hamilton County started using some of the proceeds from the sales tax fund to jump-start construction of a redevelopment district with the stadiums as bookends. After years of delays, cranes dot the riverfront that will eventually include a hotel, shops and hundreds of homes.
 Critics like Rhodes contend that the tax was never meant to pay for the real estate project. But Cincinnati business leaders, eager to reverse the flow of money to the suburbs, say the stadiums were just the beginning of a transformation of the riverfront.
 ''We need to build this neighborhood so that it becomes the center of someplace you want to go,'' said Thomas L. Gabelman, the outside counsel for the county on the riverfront development.
 Gabelman said that most of the money for the $1.2 billion project comes from federal and state grants and private financing. No more than $3 million annually comes from the sales tax fund, which brings in about $60 million a year.
 Problems persist. In 2004, Todd Portune, the commissioner who unseated Bedinghaus, sued unsuccessfully to change the Bengals' lease. In 2006, the Cincinnati public schools agreed to defer their payments from the sales tax fund for three years to help cover shortfalls.
 Still, the gap between expected and actual sales taxes continues to grow, something the county administration had been warning for years. In August, the administrator predicted not only a $14 million shortfall next year, but also a $94 million gap in 2014, a year after interest payments on the stadium bonds rise 44 percent. By then, the Reds will no longer be paying rent.
 Last month, two of the three commissioners voted against cutting the property tax rebate, fearing a voter backlash. Raising the sales tax again was not proposed for the same reason.
 ''It can't be 100 percent on the backs of taxpayers,'' said Greg Hartmann, the lone Republican commissioner. ''We gave away too much to keep the Bengals in Cincinnati. There has to be some middle ground.''
 Hartmann and Portune want to introduce a tobacco tax, but lawmakers in Columbus, the state capital, may be unwilling to approve it.
 So they have ordered more cuts in basic county administrative services, something that creates a slippery slope, said David Pepper, the commissioner who voted against the proposal.
 ''It's like the movie where the blob keeps growing and eating away at other elements of county government,'' Pepper said. ''We're beginning to cross a line in the sand by taking money from the general fund to pay for the stadiums. Once you put that money in jeopardy, you put the whole county at risk.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 1996, voters approved a sales tax increase to build Paul Brown Stadium as part of a redevelopment project and to keep the Bengals in Cincinnati.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM UHLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIME(B8)
Paul Brown Stadium, left, home of the Bengals, and the Great American Ballpark, home of the Reds, far exceeded their combined estimated cost of $500 million.
 Dusty Rhodes, the Hamilton County auditor, said the sales tax plan to build the stadiums in Cincinnati was a ''big mistake.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM UHLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SALES TAX (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SPORTS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); COUNTIES (75%); RECESSION (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); TSUNAMIS (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (66%); BOND ISSUES (65%); WRITERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI BENGALS (91%); CINCINNATI REDS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



694 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Investors End Week On Upswing

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Shares on Wall Street rose on Thursday, closing at their highest levels for the year, after two government reports confirmed a steady, if sluggish, economic recovery. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index each closed up about a half a percentage point during a shortened Christmas Eve session while the Nasdaq rose 0.7 percent. All three markets will be riding a five-day winning streak when traders return Monday to close out the year.
 While Thursday's trading was light, which can exaggerate swings in prices, it tracked the general upward trend of the last couple of months. For the year, the Dow is up 19.87 percent; the S.& P. 500, 24.71 percent; and the Nasdaq, 44.94 percent. 
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 13/32, to 96 17/32. The yield rose to 3.80 percent, from 3.75 percent late Wednesday.
 Equities are now at their highest levels since autumn of 2008. They appear to be driven by several quarters of improvements in corporate earnings as well as economic reports showing that the nation's businesses are regaining their footing. A weakened dollar has also helped lift energy and materials stocks.
 ''We're seeing steady increases and steady improvements, but nothing dramatic,'' said Brian Bethune, chief United States financial economist at IHS Global Insight. ''The recovery is happening, even if it's not happening as fast as people would like.''
 The latest government report on durable goods, released Thursday, supported that view. Orders for big-ticket items like refrigerators and cars edged up 0.2 percent in November, to $166.9 billion, after slipping slightly the previous month, the Commerce Department reported. 
 The numbers were better when volatile transportation orders were excluded, and showed that orders rose 2 percent compared with October. That was twice the increase that many analysts were predicting. Nonmilitary capital goods orders excluding aircraft increased 2.9 percent in November.
 Computers and electronic products rose the most of any category, increasing 3.7 percent, to $25.7 billion. New orders of nondefense aircraft -- a number that fluctuates from month to month -- fell 32.6 percent last month.
 Unfilled orders for manufactured durable goods fell in November, for the 14th consecutive month. That is the longest streak of consecutive monthly decreases since the data series began in 1992.
 The report also showed that companies were slowing the liquidation of the inventories, a moderation that raised hopes that businesses will ramp up orders further in the months ahead to replenish stockroom shelves.
 Many analysts said the rebuilding of those inventories was crucial, given that consumer spending remains depressed. The uncertain job market, analysts said, remains the biggest impediment to a robust recovery. 
 Still, the pace of job losses has slowed, and a Labor Department report released Thursday showed that initial unemployment insurance claims were falling. Seasonally adjusted initial unemployment insurance claims fell by 28,000, to 452,000, in the week ended Dec. 19, the department said.
 That is the lowest level of new claims since the week before Lehman Brothers failed in September 2008, an event that sent shockwaves through markets, and payrolls, around the world. 
 ''We're entering into a territory that is usually associated with job growth,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG. He said that he expects 2010 to be ''a good year for job growth,'' although many economists disagree with that view.
 Layoffs may be slowing, but employers are still reluctant to take the plunge and hire more workers, a point that the Federal Open Market Committee made in its statement last week while promising to keep its benchmark rates ''exceptionally low'' for ''an extended period.'' 
 The Obama administration is now pushing several policies that it hopes will encourage employers to start expanding payrolls, including a tax credit for companies that create jobs.
 In the absence of new hiring, productivity gains are expected to expand the country's output by about 4 percent in the last quarter of this year, economists say, compared with a gain of 2.2 percent last quarter. 
 In addition to jobs, the unsteady housing market remains another risk factor for growth. A report showing a sharp and abrupt decline in home sales in November worried analysts on Wednesday, although confusion over the fate of the home buyer's tax credit may have distorted housing sales. 
 Originally the credit was available only on sales that closed by Nov. 30, but Congress extended the deadline and expanded eligibility for the credit, raising hopes that the housing market will rebound.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A trader worked Thursday under holiday decorations at the New York Stock Exchange. On a light day, the market continued a months-long positive trend.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Shoppers at a Home Depot store in New York. Orders for durable goods rose slightly last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS)(B4) CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.(Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
Durable Goods Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department)
The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Source: Bloomberg)
Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities(Source: F.H.L.M.C.)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); TRENDS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); CHRISTMAS (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); EMPLOYMENT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



695 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: A Casualty of Wall Street Waits a Year for a New Job

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
''I am still a little bitter,'' Derrick Mincer, 35, said.
 His calm tone belied his words as he went on: ''I am a working-class individual, I went to school, I did the right thing. I went to the military, I'm a military veteran, I have a master's degree. I paid into the system. When the system fails me, what do I do?''
 In 2008, Mr. Mincer bought a one-bedroom apartment in Flatbush, Brooklyn, for $110,000 -- a tangible sign of how far he had come in life, but by no means an extravagance. He was earning $70,000 a year as an analyst at Credit Suisse Group. 
 The apartment's furnishings are modern and sleek, yet warm. Glass bookshelves display family photos; three blue boxes hold medals of honor that he earned in Iraq and Kuwait. Above his desk are two diplomas: a bachelor's degree from South Carolina State University and an M.B.A. from DeVry University.
 A year ago, as the gravest financial crisis since the Great Depression was sweeping Wall Street, he lost his job.
 Mr. Mincer was not overly worried at first -- he had been downsized before. After he returned from Iraq in 2005, he learned that the analyst position he had held at Chase before he was deployed had been eliminated. But with the help of headhunters and employment agencies, he quickly landed a similar, temporary position at Goldman Sachs. When that ended, he found work at Credit Suisse.
 This time, the headhunters were not calling. Still, Mr. Mincer was not discouraged. 
 ''Persistence overcomes resistance,'' was his motto, and he lived by it. He often stayed up until 4 a.m., searching for jobs online, then slept for a few hours before going for a run. ''Then I'd be right back at that chair,'' he said, pointing at his desk.
 Summer came. Still nothing. He had exhausted his severance pay and savings to pay his $697 monthly mortgage and $636 maintenance.
 One day in June, his search led to a government site, where he found a listing for a transportation analyst position. The job description matched his experience in the military. It paid half of his previous salary, but it was a foot in the door.
 In July, he was called for an interview. By September, he was offered the job. But before he could start, he had to obtain security clearance, which he was told would take three months. 
 He had nearly exhausted his savings; such a delay would mean that he could not pay his mortgage. He had grown up in a working-class family, and there was no one able to help him out financially. He was unsure of what do to, and described his plight when he ran into a friend one day in Downtown Brooklyn.
 That chance meeting that proved pivotal. Told of Mr. Mincer's problems, the friend suggested that he seek help from Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens. He walked into its offices nearby without much hope, and told his story to Alexandra Louis, a social worker at the charity, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 ''He was going to lose his home; we wanted to help him,'' Ms. Louis said. She was able to arrange for a grant of $800 through the Neediest Cases Fund to help him pay his mortgage and maintenance. 
 ''It really surprised me,'' said Mr. Mincer, who has since obtained security clearance -- it did not take three months -- and has started working again. 
 ''It will still be tight, but I'll make it,'' he said, the bitterness receding.
 Previously recorded $3.243,507 Recorded Wed. 101,539 Total $3,345,046 Last year to date $3,748,460 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I went to school,'' Derrick Mincer said, ''I'm a military veteran.'' So, he asked when he could not find work, ''When the system fails me, what do I do?'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged
 special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); FAMILY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); SEVERANCE PAY (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); DISMISSALS (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (57%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (83%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (83%); CS (NYSE) (83%); ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (90%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



696 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Late to the Export Arena, Vietnam Is Refining Its Role on the Global Stage

BYLINE: By PRADNYA JOSHI

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam 

 BODY:
More than many countries, Vietnam has been buffeted by the ups and downs of globalization. 
 A relatively new player in the global economy, it benefited from a flood of Western capital and interest in the 1990s and early this decade, only to be devastated by the reverberations of the latest economic crisis in the United States, 7,500 miles away.
 Vietnam's strategy for competing in the global arena -- and a relatively successful one until recently -- had been to carve out niche markets where it could deliver, say, quality products like handicrafts or specialized clothing that China could not. 
 But all of Vietnam's main export industries are heavily dependent on sales to the United States. In 2009, the United States was the biggest importer of Vietnamese goods, absorbing about a fifth of the country's exports.
 Furniture companies, to take one industry, have had a huge drop in orders after the rapid downward spiral in sales of new homes in the United States. ''A lot of the smaller factories have had a very, very difficult time,'' said Michael Gunther, a manager at Honai Furniture, a 900-employee company about 20 miles outside of Ho Chi Minh City that makes items as varied as bedroom dressers and parts for bows and arrows.
 About 20 to 25 percent of Honai's production goes to the United States while the rest is exported to other parts of the world, particularly Europe. Mr. Gunther said the company had not had to lay off anyone, even as smaller competitors went out of business, a trend that has allowed Honai to at least sustain itself. 
 ''We've had customers ask us to increase our capacity, but we can't because we're at full capacity,'' he said. 
 Vietnam's economy grew 4.6 percent for the first nine months of 2009, compared with the same period in 2008, according to the World Bank, in part because of government stimulus measures. While a developed country like the United States would be happy with such growth, Vietnam in recent years had been able to sustain an average growth rate above 7 percent. 
 At the same time, the country has seen a strong retrenchment in exports. In the first 10 months of 2009, Vietnamese exports declined 13.8 percent compared with the period in 2008, the World Bank said. 
 Though that drop is less than declines in most other developing countries, it could make 2009 the first year with a decline in exports since the beginning of Vietnam's economic reforms, the World Bank said.
 The pullback is a significant growing pain for Vietnam, one of the world's newer export economies. Compared with others in the region like Thailand and Malaysia, Vietnam is still an infant in its experiences with globalization. 
 For decades after the Vietnam War, the economy limped along, sustained largely by its agriculture. Until President Bill Clinton and the Senate lifted the United States trade embargo in 1994, Vietnam was a bit player in the export market. Even after that shift, it took years for the country's manufacturing sector to be competitive, particularly given its location near more mature exporting countries like China.
 In order to square off against China, many manufacturers try to rely on niche industries and specialties rather than competing solely on price or low labor costs.
 Dai Viet Garment Ltd., based in Ho Chi Minh City, has been able to sustain its business because it specializes in making the thoub, a man's tunic, for Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern markets. 
 Demand is pretty stable for the garments, which has allowed the company to keep its work force of 500 direct employees busy as well as 300 more through subcontractors.
 Many factory owners say that labor costs make up about 20 to 30 percent of the cost of manufacturing, so cutting workers, overtime or wages does not help much in response to lower demand. In addition, the shipping and transportation networks are much more robust in China, which can put Vietnam at a disadvantage.
 ''What makes the difference is the labor cost and delivery time,'' said Diep Thanh Kiet, chairman of Dai Viet Garment.
 As Vietnam's tourism market grows, particularly attracting new golf resorts and vacationers from other nearby countries in Southeast Asia and elsewhere, furniture manufacturers like Sadaco are turning to supply such new resorts.
 Tran Quoc Manh, chairman of Sadaco, says he has also sought to diversify his customer base by finding clients in China and in growing areas of Vietnam, like Dalat City, where new villas are being built. But the local market cannot substitute for the huge potential of the global consumer.
 ''The local market is still very small compared to the U.S. market, and overall exports to the U.S. continue to grow, though not as much as pre-crisis projections would have had it,'' said Frederick R. Burke, a managing partner in the Vietnam office of the law firm Baker & McKenzie, who advises exporters.
 Accurate government statistics on job losses in Vietnam are hard to come by, and even business people here say they believe that the government is playing down the cutbacks.
 The World Bank said there was abundant anecdotal evidence of increased hardship in the first half of the year.
 ''Job losses were widespread in industrial parks in late 2008 and early 2009. But few took the form of open layoffs,'' Viet Tuan Dinh and Martin Rama wrote in a report in June for the World Bank. ''Nonrenewals of contracts and incentives for voluntary departures were more common.''
 Corporate enterprise is still guided by the hands of the officially socialist government of Vietnam, a country where the hammer-and-sickle flag flies alongside the red Vietnamese flag at many government office buildings and where socialist motivational banners are a common sight at factories. 
 The Vietnamese government tried several measures to force factories to keep their employment levels up during the economic downturn, and it adopted a sizable fiscal stimulus package as well.
 But many economic experts are optimistic that a global recovery will help the country regain its growth track.
 ''The government is learning through experience,'' said V. Bruce J. Tolentino, chief economist at the Asia Foundation, a nonprofit group based in San Francisco. ''They are pragmatic, and that pragmatism is serving them well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dai Viet Garment company has kept busy because it specializes in making the thoub, a man's tunic, for Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern markets.
 Workers at the Honai Furniture factory, a company that has sustained its business after small competitors closed.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN MOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); FURNITURE MFG (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); NEW HOME SALES (73%); PLANT CAPACITY (72%); TRENDS (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



697 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Airlines in Asia Resist the No-Frills Trend

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
What do you do when your passengers do not fly as much as they used to?
 In the United States, many airlines have responded to the drop-off in travelers by tacking on charges for meals, headphones and other things that were once part of a ticket -- even as they have drawn fire for letting service levels slide. 
 But extra niceness is the approach adopted by many carriers in the Asia-Pacific region, who have decided that the way to persuade people to fly, preferably in business or first class, is to pamper them. 
 Korean Airlines, for example, is spending $200 million to equip its aircraft with high-end seats and upgrade its entertainment in all cabins. On the meal front, the menu includes organic food. And this year, the carrier even introduced beef and chicken raised organically at its own ranch on Jeju Island. 
 The Hong Kong carrier Cathay Pacific's latest initiatives include new cabins on long-haul flights, a new first- and business-class lounge in Kuala Lumpur, and a home wine delivery service. Starting next year, passengers will be able to choose from at least 21 movies, up from 18. 
 The world's airline industry will lose a combined $11 billion this year and $5.6 billion next year, according to the International Air Transport Association, and carriers across Asia have not been immune from the downturn. Like their counterparts in Europe and the United States, Asian airlines have had to drop routes, shed employees and scrap aircraft orders. Some are shrinking the number of seats in first and business class, where demand has fallen sharply. Japan Airlines is even seeking a government bailout to keep going.
 But the tradition of perks has remained sacrosanct in the region and is likely to remain so, analysts say.
 Outside of mainland China, Asian airline passengers expect top service because it is part of the region's cultural makeup and because no-frills, budget carriers are not as established here yet. For many carriers, the top end of the market makes up a huge part of revenue, and none can afford to be the first to cut corners when it comes to service levels.
 ''Asian airlines have been very reluctant to start going down the track that the Americans have gone,'' said Peter Harbison, chairman of the Center for Asia Pacific Aviation, a consulting firm based in Sydney.
 Alex McGowan, product manager at Cathay, said: ''When the financial crisis overwhelmed the industry a year ago, we took a decision that maintaining that premium service was vital to our future. So whatever cutbacks we made, we did not make any to the areas our customers value.'' 
 Singapore Airlines is installing new seats in the premium cabins on some aircraft and has improved in-flight entertainment systems. Like Cathay, it is based in one of Asia's financial hubs and was hit hard by the turmoil in the banking industry. But about 40 percent of its revenue comes from its premium classes. That may explain why it has not only maintained its annual wine budget for first class -- 10 million Singapore dollars, or $7 million -- but also has introduced new meals for first-class passengers on Chinese routes, specially created by a leading Chinese chef, Zhu Jun.
 Qantas, the Australian carrier, canceled orders for several aircraft in June. But it has pressed ahead with a program devised to cut check-in times in half on domestic flights by allowing members of its frequent-flier program to check in with a membership card fitted with a special chip.
 Asian airlines' obsession with service shows through in the quality rankings of Skytrax, a consulting firm based in London. Five of the six airlines in Skytrax's five-star category are based in the Asia-Pacific region, as are nearly half of the 27 carriers that hold four stars.
 By contrast, only a few four-star carriers are North American and fewer than 10 are European. Carriers in Europe have started to move down the road of charging for extras and easing back on some services. But the practice is not nearly as entrenched in Europe as it is in the United States, where a recent survey by J.D. Power & Associates showed that customer satisfaction with North American airlines had declined for the third consecutive year as airlines added fees for items like drinks, baggage and even pillows.
 Such ''ancillary income'' -- revenue from sources other than the ticket price -- has become increasingly important for airlines, which have had to resort to heavy discounting to fill seats. Passenger numbers have begun to recover recently, but intense competition means ticket prices remain well below where they used to be: the International Air Transport Association's most recent statistics show that economy fares in August were 13 percent below a year earlier, and premium fares were 17 percent lower.
 For no-frills carriers like Easyjet or Ryanair in Europe, fees for drinks and headphones make sense, said Mr. Harbison of the Center for Asia Pacific Aviation, as the airlines are charging only for what the passenger wants.
 ''But when you are posing as a full-service airline and are trying to show that you're not just a commodity carrier, you risk undermining your image and passenger loyalty if you start charging for add-ons, or cutting back on established services,'' he said.
 The airlines will not say how much they are spending to keep the perks coming. And there has been at least one recent exception: Cathay Pacific announced last month that it would give all passengers, not just loyalty program members, the chance to secure extra-legroom seats -- for a fee of $100 on long-haul flights. But such developments are not expected to become standard among Asian carriers anytime soon.
 At the same time, budget airlines are a relatively recent phenomenon in Asia and have not shaken up the market with rock-bottom pricing as much as in Europe and the United States. Carriers like AirAsia, Tiger Airways and Jetstar are growing, but ''this is not going to change the established carriers' attitude'' in the way it has elsewhere, Edward Plaisted, chief executive of Skytrax, said in a phone interview from London.
 Asia's low-cost carriers have mostly expanded the pie, rather than intensifying the squabble over an existing market. Their fares draw in many passengers who could not afford to fly with traditional carriers.
 And Asian low-fare airlines, like their full-service brethren here, often have a higher service mentality than their counterparts elsewhere. AirAsia charges for meals and drinks, for example, but its new aircraft have leather seats, conveying an aura of luxury. 
 Jetstar, another low-cost carrier, is testing a technology that will transmit boarding passes by text message to any mobile phone -- whether it is Internet-enabled or not.
 All that means that flying in Asia is likely to remain more pleasant than in Europe or the United States for the foreseeable future -- and not necessarily at outrageously higher prices. For although the higher service levels come at a premium, that premium pool has shrunk, as carriers rush to entice travelers with lower ticket prices. 
 ''Whether they want to or not, airlines in the region cannot compromise on quality,'' Mr. Plaisted said. ''Fares have become very much more level than they were two years ago.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Business class on Singapore Airlines flights includes amenities like seats that fold flat.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN GLEESON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); TRENDS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIR FARES (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ORGANIC FOODS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); AIRCRAFT MFG (69%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (69%); BAILOUTS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (54%)

TICKER: C6L (SGX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%) ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); SINGAPORE (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



698 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Dreamy Sales Of Jung Book Open Eyes

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
SURE, Dan Brown and Sarah Palin are topping the best-seller charts, but the breakout of the holiday book-buying season just may have been an elaborate, richly illustrated tome that records the dreams and spiritual questing of an author who has been dead for nearly half a century. The list price for this 9-pound, 416-page volume? $195.
 As online and big-box retailers hustle to outdo themselves in discounts, ''The Red Book'' by Carl Jung, the Swiss psychiatrist and founder of analytical psychology, has surprised booksellers and its publisher, W. W. Norton & Company, by bucking the economy and becoming difficult, and in some cases impossible, to find in bookstores around the country. On Amazon.com, the book -- which is not available in a Kindle e-book edition -- ''usually ships in 1 to 3 months,'' the site says, although on Thursday barnesandnoble.com said it usually shipped within 24 hours. (Both Amazon and Barnes & Noble were offering discounts on ''The Red Book,'' to as low as $94.97.) 
 This month the book reached as high as No. 18 on the New York Times hardcover nonfiction extended best-seller list. Of course the sales of ''The Red Book'' -- 13,000, according to Nielsen BookScan, which tracks about 70 percent of retail sales -- are tiny compared to the millions of copies of Mr. Brown's ''Lost Symbol'' or Ms. Palin's ''Going Rogue'' that have sold. But ''The Red Book,'' originally handwritten in ornate calligraphy and illustrated with intricate tempera paintings, all reproduced in Norton's 15.4-inch by 11.6-inch volume, has proven to booksellers that books -- printed on paper and embracing deep thinking -- can sell, and sell well, even at a premium price.
 ''We were absolutely amazed,'' said Elaine Petrocelli, an owner of Book Passage, an independent company with bookstores in San Francisco and suburban Corte Madera, Calif. ''Here you have a $195 book in what's supposed to be a bad time, and we have many, many orders for it. I think we have over 20 orders for it.'' 
 Ms. Petrocelli said that she sold out of the 15 copies she initially ordered, and that she is waiting for new stock.
 Norton, which spent two years negotiating a deal to publish the book and another two years putting it together, originally printed just 5,000 copies, guided by pessimistic booksellers who didn't think they could sell many during an economic downturn.
 ''I had done all my planning on a bigger print run to begin with, but then the economy tanked,'' said Jim Mairs, Norton's editor at large. ''When our sales reps went out with an expensive book, the response from stores was not anywhere close to what I had hoped it would be.''
 The book is considered the Holy Grail by many Jungians, who for years had only heard rumors of its existence. For decades Jung's descendants kept the original, leather-bound volume, which Jung worked on between 1912 and 1928, locked in a bank vault. 
 It took Sonu Shamdasani, the primary translator and the writer of a 33-page introductory essay, two years to persuade Jung's family to let him start working on a color copy of the original book.
 Mr. Mairs first saw about 30 facsimile pages of ''The Red Book'' and some of Mr. Shamdasani's introductory material. 
 ''I was blown away,'' Mr. Mairs recalled. ''I really am not a Jungian. I looked at it simply as an object that was so beautiful I couldn't keep my hands off it.''
 Once Norton secured the contract to publish the book, it paid about $85,000 for a high-tech scan of the original journals in Zurich. Mr. Mairs arranged for an Italian printer to print and partly hand-bind the volumes. By the time it was ready for publication this year, Mr. Mairs ratcheted back his original plans for a print run of 15,000 copies to just 5,000.
 Booksellers were wary of ordering too many copies. ''I was pretty cautious because last holiday season, if it was over $39.95, nobody bought it,'' said Cathy Langer, the lead buyer for the Tattered Cover stores in Denver. ''So I went conservatively.''
 But as customers saw news coverage or heard about an exhibition of the original ''Red Book'' at the Rubin Museum of Art in New York, they started to request the book, released in October, and many booksellers quickly sold out. 
 As orders mounted, the publisher commissioned a reprinting, and then went back to press three more times, taking the total to 25,000, with 10,000 more on the way. But Mr. Mairs said that because the book is partly hand-bound, uses two different kinds of custom-made paper and is printed in Italy, it can take up to six weeks to get the books printed and shipped to the United States.
 While committed Jungians have been waiting decades for the book, there are only about 1,000 analysts who follow Jung's principles in North America, according to Stephen Martin, co-founder and president emeritus of the Philemon Foundation, a Jungian nonprofit group that raised money to help prepare ''The Red Book'' for publication, helping to finance Mr. Shamdasani's translation, among other things. Booksellers say that buyers have extended outside Jungian interest groups. 
 ''The thing I find interesting is that I'm not even sure that a lot of people buying them'' have shown any previous interest in Jung, said Sarah McNally, owner of McNally Jackson Books in Manhattan. ''There are a lot of $15 Jung books that they haven't ever bought.'' 
 Ms. Jackson said that the first five copies of ''The Red Book'' that she ordered were spoken for before they even arrived. She has since reordered, but the publisher could not fulfill the order completely, and the store is now sold out.
 ''I think that when times are tough, the people are very aware of what is ethereal and also what is peripheral, like all the little new toys that come out,'' said Barbara Meade, an owner of Politics and Prose, an independent bookstore in Washington that has sold 25 copies. ''Somehow books seem to be something that is a lasting value.''
 Dennis Paul, a retired lawyer in Fox Point, Wis., a suburb of Milwaukee, who has amassed a library of books on psychology, philosophy and theology, requested that his local bookstore, the Boswell Book Company, order him a copy of ''The Red Book.'' He has spent the last three weeks reading it. 
 ''It's not about becoming or self-help or jumping all over the place,'' Mr. Paul said, ''but sitting firm with what we are and recognizing that the other is essentially unknowable.'' 
 He added: ''It's very profound. It kind of centers you and kind of humbles you and brings you down from the normal conversations we have all the time.'' 
 Daniel Goldin, the owner of Boswell, said that after Mr. Paul bought his copy, the store started getting further requests from customers and reordered. Now he is out of stock, he said, and wishing he had had the courage to order more in the first place.
 ''It's one of those books,'' Mr. Goldin said, ''where we now say to ourselves, 'If we had bought 15 or 20, would we have sold them all?' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTO) (C29)
Jung's original ornate calligraphy and tempera illustrations are reproduced in ''The Red Book,'' which is partly hand-bound. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM P. O'DONNELL/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Dorothy McGhee examining ''The Red Book'' by Carl Jung in Politics and Prose in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA LUCIDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (91%); BESTSELLERS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (63%); PAINTING (63%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (71%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (71%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (71%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (78%); SARAH PALIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (67%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



699 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Berkshire Has Shed 8% Of Workers

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett, reported 21,000 fewer employees than it had at the end of 2008 amid a slump at its manufacturing and retail units. 
 Berkshire and its subsidiaries have about 225,000 workers, the company said this week in regulatory filings, which is 8.6 percent lower than the 246,083 employees it reported in its 2008 annual report. Berkshire provided the jobs information in a document tied to its planned $26 billion takeover of the railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation. Mr. Buffett did not reply to a request, left with an assistant, for comment on the cuts.
 Mr. Buffett, Berkshire's chief executive, oversees more than 70 subsidiaries, with brands like Geico, Fruit of the Loom and Dairy Queen. The company is based in Omaha. 
 Profit at Berkshire's manufacturing, service and retail businesses plunged by more than half in the first nine months of the year, and Mr. Buffett replaced the chief executives of two operating units whose sales suffered in the recession.
 ''When times are good, you're going to have more people employed than when times are bad,'' Mr. Buffett, 79, said this month in a video address to the 37,000 railroad employees that Berkshire will take on next year with the completion of the Burlington Northern takeover.
 Mr. Buffett told shareholders at the firm's annual meeting in May that he expected more cuts at Berkshire after reductions last year at Clayton Homes, which builds manufactured housing, and Acme Building Brands, a brick maker. In the first three months of this year, Berkshire reported its first quarterly loss since 2001. The firm returned to profit in the second and third quarters, helped by an advance in the stock market.
 The Buffalo News, which is owned by Berkshire Hathaway, started the year with about 846 employees and cut approximately 100 jobs through voluntary attrition, said Daniel Farberman, the newspaper's vice president. Most of the cuts came on the production side of the business, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); BRANDING (77%); RETAILERS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (92%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (83%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (59%); INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (56%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM OPERATING LTD (56%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INTERNATIONAL LTD (56%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INC (56%); ACME BRICK CO INC (54%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (92%); BRK.A (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (83%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (59%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (59%); SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (56%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (56%); SIC2254 KNIT UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR MILLS (56%); NAICS423320 BRICK, STONE & RELATED CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5032 BRICK, STONE, & RELATED CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (54%); SIC3251 BRICK & STRUCTURAL CLAY TILE (54%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



700 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: When Famous Owners Sell Famous Paintings

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
 What motivates people to sell at auction, especially given the precariousness of the economy, is a matter of constant speculation. And when the consignors' names are published in catalogs, it further fuels the interest. 
 Often revealing who's selling what is good business. When an artwork comes from a well-known collection, it carries an added cachet that can mean a higher price.
 Such is the thinking behind Sotheby's sale of old master painting on Jan. 28 in New York, prominently featuring properties from several respected collectors. A portrait by Zurbaran is being sold by Dorothy Cherry, a collector and widow of Wendell Cherry, who was the president and chief executive of Humana, the health insurance company. There are also three scenes of Venice -- a pair of Canaletto canvases and a Guardi -- belonging to Gordon Getty, a philanthropist and an heir to the Getty oil fortune. And there are three 18th-century paintings -- by Hubert Robert, Agostino Brunias and Jean-Baptiste Oudry -- that had hung in a London apartment belonging to Jayne Wrightsman, a longtime board member of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. 
 ''There is no overriding reason any these paintings are being sold now,'' said George Wachter, director of Sotheby's old master paintings department worldwide. ''It's simply happenstance.'' 
 Mrs. Wrightsman is moving out of her London pied-a-terre (Sotheby's is selling the rest of its contents in April in New York), while experts familiar with Mr. Getty's collection said the Canalettos and the Guardi had not been recently hung. 
 Mrs. Cherry said in a telephone interview that she had bought a house in Connecticut that doesn't have a place for her Zurbaran, ''St. Dorothy,'' which is expected to sell for $3 million to $4 million. And although she periodically parts with works in her collection, it still took her about a year to make the decision to put the painting on the block. 
 ''We're at a transition point in the economy,'' she said. ''The stock market is still shaky, and most people want to be diversified. Still, I think it's a good time to sell. Things of quality bring strong prices.'' 
 Depicting the martyr saint clad in a rich red silk dress, the image is so arresting it is the cover of the auction catalog
 Mrs. Cherry bought the work at Christie's in New York in 1998 for $2 million. ''When I first saw it, I found myself walking around with the catalog,'' she said. ''That's when I realized that because it was of St. Dorothy, it must be a message from my husband, who was sending it to me C.O.D.'' 
 Rosenberg's Treasures
 Two years ago the Museum of Modern Art was promised the archives from the Paul Rosenberg Gallery. A legendary French dealer who ran one of the most important galleries for major masters of the School of Paris, Rosenberg supported, sold and showed the work of Picasso, Braque and Leger, among others. 
 When he died in 1959, his son, Alexandre, ran the gallery until his own death in 1987. Together they amassed tens of thousands of photographs, letters, index cards and more that chronicle a slice of art history. 
 After Alexandre's widow, Elaine, promised the archives to the Modern, the museum hired Donald Prochera to put them in order so that students and scholars could examine the contents. A sampling of some 50 items will be on view at MoMA from Jan. 27 through April 5. 
 ''It was important to keep it clear and focused,'' said Michelle Elligott, who runs the museum's archives, explaining that the amount of material to choose from was overwhelming. ''We wanted to educate the general public who may not have heard of the Rosenberg gallery by illustrating its importance in the history of 20th-century art. And for those who already know the name, we have tried to show the relationship the two protagonists -- Paul and Alexandre Rosenberg -- had with these modern artists.'' 
 The gallery originally opened in Paris, but when World War II broke out, the Rosenbergs fled to Manhattan, arriving in 1940 and opening a space on East 57th Street a year later. Some of the inventory and records were confiscated in Europe, although much has been retrieved over the years. 
 Throughout its existence the gallery sold and donated important works to the Modern, including Picasso's ''Harlequin'' from 1915 and Cezanne's ''Chateau Noir'' from 1903-4. 
 Van Gogh's ''Starry Night,'' one of the museum's most popular paintings, came from the Rosenberg gallery. On view will be a 3-by-5 index card on the painting with a photograph from the original glass negative. 
 Although it is black and white, Ms. Elligott said, the image is of such high quality that it captures the condition of the work right down to the technique of the brushwork, which is useful to conservators and curators.
 The index card also records the history of the painting, including the fact that the artist wrote about it in a letter to his brother, Theo. ''In a few square inches this is a huge scholarly tool,'' Ms. Elligott said. 
 An Actor's Gift of Art
 The Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, has received its first painting by Mondrian. ''Composition With Blue, Yellow and Red,'' from 1927 -- one of his classic abstract canvases -- is a gift of the actor and jazz musician Conrad Janis and his wife, Maria, in memory of Mr. Janis's parents, Sidney Janis, a Manhattan dealer who died in 1989, and Harriet, who died in 1963. 
 ''We had two drawings but no painting,'' said Malcolm Rogers, director of the Museum of Fine Arts. ''We have a strong interest in building our classic 20th-century collection. It's not an area that Bostonians ever collected and if they didn't collect it, we don't have it.'' 
 Arne Glimcher, chairman of PaceWildenstein, was selling several Mondrians on behalf of the Janis family and negotiated the gift. ''Arne Glimcher was the magician here,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''He has strong roots in Boston and wants to help us develop the collection.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''St. Dorothy'' by Zurbaran, owned by Dorothy Cherry, will be put up for auction on Jan. 28 at Sotheby's. It is expected to sell for $3 million to $4 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (93%); AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

PERSON: GORDON GETTY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



701 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Hard-Line Rise In Iran Alters View in West

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
Until Iran's current political crisis, Iranian experts largely agreed that the Islamic republic wanted to develop the capacity to build nuclear weapons, without actually producing them.
 Now, not everyone is so sure.
 The main reason for the shift in thinking is the rise of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps as the most powerful decision-making bloc in the country. But the change is also a result of the political struggle among the elite, which has upended previous assessments about Iran's decision-making process, silenced more pragmatic voices and made it nearly impossible for anyone to support nuclear cooperation without being accused of capitulating to the West.
 This move toward a harder line has stymied President Obama's attempts to open a new channel of communication with the Iranian leadership. And now, having set a year-end deadline for Iran to cooperate, the United States and its Western allies seem likely to seek to impose tougher sanctions on Iran, a step that some analysts fear could enable the more radical forces to monopolize power, at least in the short term. 
 ''A Revolutionary Guards-dominated state that we have witnessed since the presidential election has proven to be a lot less prudent, and a whole lot more violent, than what was the ordinary behavior of the Islamic Republic of Iran before,'' said Rasool Nafisi, an Iran researcher in Virginia who co-wrote a report on the Revolutionary Guards for the RAND Corporation. ''One should calculate the impact of such a state on nuclear development with more caution.''
 That is not to say that Iran is necessarily preparing to drop out of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty or to make a bomb and declare itself a nuclear weapons state, the way North Korea did. But Iranians who support full-on confrontation with the West have the upper hand in the country's public debate and decision making at the moment, Iran experts and European diplomats said.
 Hossein Shariatmadari, editor of Kayhan, the newspaper that serves as a bulletin board for Iran's supreme leader and the most radical forces in the Revolutionary Guards, wrote last month that ''under the circumstances, is it possible to still argue that Iran's membership'' in the treaty is prudent? ''Isn't it wise, honorable and expedient to withdraw from the treaty instead?'' he continued. ''Why not?!''
 It is not clear what the West can do about the problem.
 While the type of new sanctions under consideration and the willingness of China and Russia to impose them are still uncertain, some Iran experts and diplomats are skeptical that they can reverse the country's evolution toward a more militarized and radical leadership. Some fear that a sharper confrontation with the West could even accelerate that process.
 ''The idea, of course, is to see whether sanctions can contribute to setting in motion an internal political shift,'' said a European diplomat with many years of service in Iran who insisted on anonymity in keeping with diplomatic protocol. ''But that is doubtful.'' The diplomat said the government had shifted from cynical authoritarianism to radical repression.
 Iran has not so far embraced the North Korea model of renouncing the nonproliferation treaty and bargaining with the outside world as a self-declared nuclear weapons state. But there are concerns that the leadership in Tehran is feeling so paranoid and vulnerable because of the internal divisions that if pushed, it might head in that direction.
 ''The aftermath of the election has isolated them,'' said Muhammad Sahimi, an Iran expert who closely follows events through a network of friends there. ''They are under tremendous pressure, both internally and externally. They also are not sure whether they can count on unified support of the people if attacked militarily, due to what has happened.''
 Iran would still have a great deal to lose by formally dropping out of the treaty and declining to negotiate with the West, and some experts say they still doubt that the embattled leadership will take that step. 
 Pulling out would undermine Iran's central claim that its nuclear program is peaceful in nature. It might also erode the willingness of China and Russia to continue to support Iran at the United Nations Security Council, and it might encourage Israel to wage a military strike with the silent approval of the West, experts said. It would also commit Iran to the most radical path and use up a powerful point of leverage for future negotiations, they said.
 ''As long as Tehran can cast the issue as one of imperialists trying to deny their rights to nuclear technology, Iran gets the support of a significant swath of the developing world,'' said Mark Fitzpatrick, a senior fellow for nonproliferation with the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. 
 In the best of times, reading Iran's intentions is difficult, because while there were elected institutions full of public debate, the most important decisions were forged in secret by the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, his aides and a core of the political elite. But the political crisis appears to have diminished the process of consultation by neutralizing some of the nation's most powerful figures. Among them are Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a former president, and on the nuclear issue, even the president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
 In the opportunistic, factionalized postelection environment, Mr. Ahmadinejad has emerged as a voice of pragmatism on the nuclear issue, in relative terms, while so-called pragmatic conservatives, like Ali Larijani, the speaker of Parliament, and even reformers, like Mir Hussein Moussavi, who lost the election to Mr. Ahmadinejad, have opposed an agreement with the West that was under discussion in the fall.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad, who has said that it is time to cooperate, seemed to favor a deal struck by Iranian negotiators during talks in Geneva in October. They agreed to send much of Iran's low-enriched uranium to Russia, and then France, where it would be converted to fuel rods. The rods, which could be used to power a medical reactor but would be difficult to covert into weapons fuel, would then be sent to Iran. The West accepted the idea because it would have delayed, by about a year, Iran's ability to make a bomb.
 But once the deal was announced, Mr. Ahmadinejad's political enemies back home attacked him, eager to undermine his credibility and legitimacy with the same blunt instrument he had used for so long against his political rivals, the nuclear issue.
 ''Given divisions within the ranks -- the first time that real power brokers are divided, and that is something Obama has achieved with the Geneva deal much more so than street protests -- the leadership knows that it does not want to conclude a deal,'' said a Washington-based Iran expert who asked not to be identified because he sometimes visits Iran. 
 In this environment, Mr. Larijani, who is close to the supreme leader and whose family has close ties to the most influential clergy members in the country, raised the prospect of abandoning the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty altogether. 
 ''Those who seek peaceful nuclear technology should continue to do so without any attention to the treaty because it does nothing but complicate matters even more,'' Mr. Larijani said, according to Iran's semiofficial ILNA news service.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad has tried to regroup, with his government insisting that it is still ready to agree to turn over much of its low-enriched uranium, but on its own terms, which the West has already rejected. The government has also insisted that Iran will not withdraw from the treaty.
 In the past, Iran's equivocating would be seen as a strategy aimed at dividing the West from Russia and China. But while that is probably part of the explanation, there is a general sense that it also reflects the inability of such a fractured nation to reach a firm decision on the issue. The question the West needs to calculate is, What will that decision ultimately be?
 ''A majority of analysts believe that Iran will stop short of making a bomb but would like to be bomb-ready,'' said Mr. Nafisi, the researcher in Virginia. ''But I think it depends a lot on the political situation when Iran has enough fissile materials to build a bomb.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A satellite image in September showed construction in a mountain near Qum. Iran said it was a nonmilitary nuclear plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IHS JANE'S ANALYSIS/GEOEYE SATELLITE) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



702 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Demand for Durable Goods Softer Than Expected

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A fitful economic recovery is drawing strength from a stabilizing job market and signs that demand for factory-produced goods is starting to pick up.
 The latest sign was a government report Thursday that the number of newly laid-off workers filing claims for unemployment benefits fell more than expected last week. The four-week average for claims, which smoothes fluctuations, fell to its lowest point since September 2008, when the financial crisis hit.
 Further evidence of a gradually healing economy was a report that orders to American factories for big-ticket durable goods rose by 0.2 percent in November. The overall increase was less than expected, but after excluding numbers from the volatile aircraft and defense sectors, orders soared by 2.9 percent. 
 The Labor Department said the number of new jobless claims fell to 452,000 last week, down 28,000 from the previous week, on a seasonally adjusted basis. That was a better performance than the decline to 470,000 that economists had expected.
 The four-week average for claims fell to 465,250, the 16th straight decline.
 Unemployment claims have been falling unevenly since summer. That improvement is seen as a sign that jobs cuts are slowing and hiring could pick up early next year. The fall in weekly claims of 28,000 last week, which followed two smaller weekly increases, shows that the halting improvement continues.
 But the Labor Department warned that seasonal employment from holidays and other variables in the calendar made last week a difficult one to adjust. The actual number of new claims was higher than the previous week, but fewer than expected. The process of adjusting for seasonal variation reduced the number.
 Economists monitor jobless claims as a gauge of the pace of layoffs. Analysts say initial claims need to fall to about 425,000 for several weeks to signal the economy is actually beginning to add jobs.
 The government said the number of people continuing to receive regular jobless benefits fell by 127,000, to 5.08 million for the week ended Dec. 12. That figure does not include millions of people who have used up the 26 weeks of benefits typically provided by states and are receiving extended benefits for up to 73 additional weeks, paid by the federal government.
 The number of people receiving extended benefits jumped to 4.37 million for the week ended Dec. 5, an increase of 141,807 from the previous week. That big rise shows that the problem of high unemployment persists despite a decrease in layoffs.
 It also reflects the fact that 38 states are processing claims for the extension of benefits that Congress approved last month.
 The economy grew at a 2.2 percent annual rate in third quarter, the first growth in the gross domestic product after a record four quarters of shrinking G.D.P. A string of more positive reports is causing analysts to revise upward their forecasts for growth in the current quarter to 3 percent or slightly better.
 But unless unemployment starts to decline steadily, consumer spending, which accounts for 70 percent of economic activity, could falter. That could jeopardize the fragile recovery from the nation's longest recession since the 1930s.
 Federal Reserve officials last week ended their final meeting of the year with a decision to hold interest rates at ''exceptionally low levels'' for an extended period. The Fed has kept its key federal funds rate at a record low near zero percent for the last year. Many economists do not expect any increases until the unemployment rate begins to decline consistently.
 In their assessment of the economy, Fed officials said that economic activity was continuing to pick up and the pace of layoffs has been slowing.
 There were 19 states with decreases of more than 1,000 claims for the week ended Dec. 12, led by North Carolina, with a decline of 14,374, which it attributed in part to fewer layoffs in the textile, construction and service industries. Pennsylvania, New York, Georgia, Wisconsin and California also had at least 10,000 fewer new claims, and all except California mentioned fewer construction layoffs.
 The previous week, only Kansas and Kentucky had declines of more than 1,000 new claims.
 The two areas with increases of more than 1,000 claims for the week ended Dec. 12 were Louisiana and Puerto Rico. The previous week, 29 states had increases of more than 1,000 claims.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); APPROVALS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



703 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; BARBARY COAST; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Bittersweet Memories of a Local Chocolate Maker

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.

 BODY:
For Jane Lloyd, owner of the Viking barbershop in San Francisco, this is a Christmas with bittersweet memories -- of the chocolate kind.
 ''Joseph Schmidt was the best neighbor,'' the gregarious Ms. Lloyd said. ''His place gave our block some cachet. His windows alone were amazing.''
The chocolatier's shop at 16th and Sanchez Streets closed this year, ending a cherished local tradition dating to 1983. This is the first holiday season without the distinctive ovoid truffles and decorative boxes once abundant throughout the Bay Area. 
 The Hershey Company bought Joseph Schmidt's chocolate shop in 2005 as part of a move into the gourmet confections business. The initial impression was that the corporation mismanaged what was supposed to be a jewel in its cocoa crown to the point of financial loss, and then bean counters came in and killed it. 
 It is the type of corporate takeover tale that makes people fume, especially when it involves a local business that inspired loyalty and affection. Postings on Facebook lament the loss, railing against the Pennsylvania Scrooge who terminated a Christmas favorite. After all, there was more at stake than the denied taste buds of spoiled gourmands: Schmidt employed up to 200 people in the Mission district. 
 But it turns out Hershey was more like Ezekiel than Ebenezer.
 ''They extended the life of the company a couple of years,'' said the company's founder and namesake, Joseph Schmidt, 70. ''I have nothing bad to say about Hershey's. They really, really tried.''
 An immigrant from Israel who discovered a passion for chocolate later in life, Mr. Schmidt described himself as more of an artist than a businessman -- his company needed Hershey's deep pockets. In its heyday, Schmidt did $15 million a year in business, but the focus was always on creation and presentation. Profits were never as rich as the treats.
 Audrey Ryan also helped found the company, and her artisan boxes in shapes like toy soldiers and the Golden Gate Bridge have become collectibles. ''We couldn't operate at the level we were going without expanding,'' Ms. Ryan said of the decision to sell. Among the looming challenges were new, costly labeling regulations.
 It was like an arranged marriage between two strangers who shared just one, sweet common interest and nothing else. Mr. Schmidt would not disclose the sale price, but said it was modest.
 ''They didn't buy it expecting to kill it,'' said Clay Gordon, an industry analyst who covers trends on TheChocolateLife.com. Mr. Gordon said that Hershey wanted to make Schmidt a national brand but that ''they couldn't figure out how to get it to return for the investment.''
 Ms. Ryan said, ''Their philosophy was not individually focused the way our product line was.''
 How individual? Special orders were common. Mr. Schmidt said Danielle Steel, the best-selling author from Pacific Heights, had them sculpture chocolate models of her home.
 Other molds used were antiques, limited to making a few or only one chocolate at a time. Imagine the head-scratching by Hershey executives when they found those. They run a company that mass-produces 80 million Kisses a day.
 Before the sale, Mr. Schmidt created as many as 50 Christmas products. After Hershey took over, there was not a single chocolate Santa.
 There would be no saving the company a second time -- by then, it had lost its appeal to investors and could not be sold again, Mr. Schmidt said. Hershey paid severance and worked to place employees in other jobs.
 Interestingly, the doors closed at a time of record chocolate sales in the United States: the recession has people craving comfort foods. ''We form very, very strong attachments to chocolate,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''Emotional attachments to it.''
 Ted Weinstein, a literary agent, never had custom chocolates made in the shape of his home. Unlike Ms. Steel, he bought in retail stores and is now coping with the void.
 ''I always sent Joseph Schmidt's treats,'' Mr. Weinstein said, ''both because they were incredibly gorgeous and good and because he had a special gift box that looked like a book, which made it the absolutely perfect gift for a literary agent to send to editors and clients.''
 Ms. Lloyd, of the Viking barbershop, said, ''I will miss my boxes showered upon me by my wonderful customers at this time of year.''
 Mr. Schmidt said some were hoarding the last remaining boxes. But those best-if-used-by dates expire soon -- or already have. There are no more, regardless of the desire. 
 ''I wish I could be Santa,'' he said, ''and make their wishes come true.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph Schmidt said Hershey's had tried to keep his San Francisco business alive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (78%); CONFECTIONERY (78%); TAKEOVERS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); MARRIAGE (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); PRODUCT LABELING (50%)

COMPANY: HERSHEY CO (94%); MARS INC (85%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: HSY (NYSE) (94%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (94%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



704 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Where There's Smoke ... There's a Trade-In

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Malia Wollan contributed reporting from San Francisco.

DATELINE: KEENE, N.H. 

 BODY:
The wood stove was blazing in Rosemary Urato's living room on Christmas Eve, giving off a hypnotic glow and only a hint of smoky smell. It is brand new and cleaner than its predecessor, which was dispatched to a scrapyard last month. 
 There it joined dozens of others -- sooty Tempwoods and All Nighters, squat Vermont Castings and Fishers etched with pines -- recently discarded by Keene residents. In return, the state gave the residents $1,000 toward the cost of a new stove that meets current emissions requirements. 
 ''The old one was a little scary,'' said Steve Perkins, Ms. Urato's landlord. 
 A spin on the federal Cash for Clunkers program, which helped people trade gas guzzlers for more efficient vehicles, the program is a small step toward clearing the air in rural New England, a tradition-bound region that has clung to its wood stoves for sentimental reasons even as much of the country has declared them passe. It aims to replace 100 old stoves in Keene, population 23,000, by February. 
 Because the town sits in a valley, fine-particle pollution -- the kind that wood smoke creates -- gets trapped near the ground on cold, calm days. An air monitor regularly detects worrisome levels that could ultimately violate federal standards, triggering tough restrictions on wood burning. 
 Such restrictions could extend to periodic bans on burning wood or manufactured logs in fireplaces, too, as the San Francisco Bay Area has done. The agency that monitors air quality there said it would ban wood fires on Christmas because of predictions for cold, still weather. Residents who want to watch a burning Yule log will have to resort to television. 
 Keene is among some 35 communities nationwide that have offered exchange programs in recent years, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, which estimates that more than 7,500 wood stoves and fireplaces have been replaced as a result.
 In Keene, the cash-for-wood-clunkers program has drawn about 70 takers, and, among some residents, a flinty response -- and a sense that they know better than bureaucrats, whom some suspect of exaggerating the risk posed by old stoves. 
 Deb Ferguson, a real estate agent who said she burned four cords of wood each winter in her old Tempwood stove, went to a meeting about the program but it left her wary.
 ''Don't get me wrong -- I love a good coupon,'' Ms. Ferguson said, sitting at her kitchen table in a toasty home across from a horse farm. ''But there's too much government bureaucracy around it.''
 In particular, she said she doubted one thing officials at the meeting said: that an old stove can emit as much pollution as seven diesel buses.
 ''I was like, 'How the heck do you know that?' '' Ms. Ferguson said. ''There are days when I'll go outside and say, 'That smells horrible,' but honestly I think there are a lot of bigger trees they should be barking up.''
 In Northern California, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District has relied on neighbors to report violators, as well as the so-called fireplace police -- teams of inspectors who fan across the region on ban days looking for chimney smoke. People caught burning wood get a warning for the first violation and a $400 fine for the second. Last winter, the district got more than 1,400 complaints from the nine counties it monitors. 
 There are some 10 million wood stoves in use in the United States, according to the E.P.A., and while the agency has set new emissions limits for those made after 1990, most are older.
 Those stoves use more wood and emit up to 10 times more particle pollution than newer ones, according to the E.P.A. 
 In California, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District has imposed wood-burning bans on 14 days so far since November 2008. People who rely exclusively on wood heat are exempt, but one of them, Sandy Clark of Woodacre, Calif., said she felt singled out nonetheless.
 ''I get nasty notes from someone here in town on my woodpile,'' Mrs. Clark, 65, said. ''There is one woman who walks up and down the street looking for smoke in people's chimneys. She has her own spies -- kids and other women who walk around with notebooks, looking for smoke.''
 In Vermont, more than 200 wood stoves were turned in this year under a program that provided vouchers worth $450, said Heidi Hales, the state official who oversaw it.
 A program, in Libby, Mont., helped replace more than 1,000 old stoves from 2005 to 2007. Afterward, a study by the University of Montana found that outdoor particulate pollution decreased by 30 percent and indoor pollution by 70 percent. 
 A climate-change bill before Congress would authorize $20 million over five years for a national wood stove exchange program, but the bill's fate is uncertain. 
 In the meantime, said Alison Simcox, who studies air quality for the New England region of the E.P.A., the economic downturn has kept such programs from spreading at the state and county level. ''Everybody likes the idea,'' Ms. Simcox said. ''But we're not going to see a lot of it with the recession.''
 Gary Goodemote, one of four stove dealers participating in the Keene exchange program, said substitutes cost from $1,500 for the most basic new stove to $4,000 for top-of-the-line pellet stoves, which burn compressed wood pellets and are cleaner. 
 Mr. Goodemote said that although oil prices had dropped this year, many homeowners were still buying stoves out of fear that prices would spike again. 
 New Englanders, he said, treat their old stoves like cherished friends.
 And, he added, ''they can't imagine their old friend going onto the scrap heap.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Through a trade-in program in Keene, N.H., Rosemary Urato's home has been outfitted with an energy-efficient wood stove. (A1)
 Deb Ferguson adjusted the flue on her older wood stove in Keene, N.H. Ms. Ferguson said she went to a meeting about a program to exchange her stove for a newer model but left feeling wary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); AIR QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (88%); HEATING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); PARTICULATE MATTER (75%); AIR QUALITY (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (75%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (75%); EMISSIONS (75%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (75%); AIR POLLUTION (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: VERMONT CASTINGS GROUP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3429 HARDWARE, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



705 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Disappointment

 BODY:
The price per metric ton of permits to spew carbon-dioxide into the atmosphere fell by $3.30 on the European Climate Exchange between the first day of the climate summit in Copenhagen and the day after its disappointing conclusion as traders reacted to the failure to reach binding targets for future carbon emissions. 
 The decline -- which put the price of the benchmark futures contract dated December 2010 at $18.20 per ton -- reflects the European market's deflated expectations that the meetings would lead to a treaty to lower emissions ceilings and boost the price of permits. 
 The depressed price of the emissions permits also suggests that despite years of diplomatic efforts, the real world -- where people and businesses buy energy to make things, move things and stay warm -- still operates as if people can spew carbon more or less at will.
 Consider how much carbon really costs. 
 After reviewing a series of independent studies, the Environmental Protection Agency concluded last year that the ''social cost'' of releasing one more ton of carbon-dioxide into the air, the cost of the environmental damage and other consequences over the next century, was between $40 and $68 in 2007 and would rise to up to $179 in 2040 if we don't cut emissions soon.
 A review of the economics of climate change by Nicholas Stern, a professor at London School of Economics, which was written at the behest of the British government in 2006, asserted that emissions should be priced initially at about $75 a ton to encourage investments in alternative energy sources and reduce the use of fossil fuels enough to avoid drastic climate change.
 His prescription may be politically unrealistic, at least for now. But if carbon were that expensive, behavior would change. Carbon-dioxide emissions in the United States amount to about 18 metric tons per person per year. The kind of money Mr. Stern is talking about would add up to an annual bill of $1,350 per American. Translated into a gas tax, Mr. Stern's price tag is about 66 cents per gallon -- a convincing argument to swap the sport-utility vehicle for a Prius.
 The price on the European Climate Exchange, by contrast, would amount to about 16 cents a gallon, hardly a reason to trade in the guzzler. Other than direct coercion, the best way to convince people to consume less fossil fuel is to slap a sufficiently high price on carbon -- either through a tax or a cap-and-trade regime.
 Fortunately, there is good reason to believe the price of European emission permits will rise over time. Their price tends to fall when the price of oil rises or the economy slows -- dynamics that reduce energy usage and naturally cut emissions of carbon. As the world fell even deeper into recession last year, the price of permits tumbled from a peak of around $45 per ton in July 2008. 
 But to stop climate change, the price of carbon emissions must go up in other parts of the world -- notably in the United States and China, where carbon can still be spewed for free. When we have global conferences, we would prefer them to be of the variety that pushes the price of carbon emissions up. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (88%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FUTURES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (69%); FUEL TAX (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



706 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2169 words

HEADLINE: From New Deal to New Hard Times, Eleanor Endures

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: ELEANOR, W.Va. 

 BODY:
 Early spring, in the Depression year of 1935. A poor girl from coal-mine country, a dark-haired girl of 4, rocks beside her mother and two sisters in a car moving through the rain-swept night. Soon they will join her father, a Great War veteran who pads his shoes with cardboard. He has been working for months on some distant government relief project.
 When the car finally stops, the sleepy girl can see only a blur of mud and midnight. Not until morning does she take in this government project: a new American town, raised from a field by her father and other men with families caught in the stalled gears of a broken economy. 
 The girl is told: You're home now, Marlane. 
 Late fall, in the Recession year of 2009. A dark-haired woman of 78 drives her Buick, a Rendezvous, slowly through the town she has always called home. ''This is an Eleanor house, and this is an Eleanor house,'' Marlane Crockett Carr says, nodding toward oversize bungalows distinguished by the original pitched roofs. ''And this, and this...''
 The economic fallout of this annus horribilis, now drawing to a close, continues: 10 percent unemployment ; tens of millions without steady access to adequate food; wholesale industry shakeouts. It takes the collective American mind to another time, an even harder time, when federal stimulus programs meant more than just bridge repairs and weatherization; when the government jump-started the economy by building highways, schools, post offices -- entire towns.
 Dozens of New Deal ''resettlement'' communities dotted the country: the Penderlea Homestead Farms in North Carolina; the Phoenix Homesteads in Arizona; the Dyess Colony in Arkansas, where Johnny Cash grew up. And here: on fertile West Virginia land beside the Kanawha River, a community named after Eleanor Roosevelt, First Lady of the New Deal. 
 Over the years, these New Deal towns have been praised as a sound response to paralyzing poverty and criticized as flawed, communism-tinted social experiments. But in this hard time, as half-built subdivisions stand as ghostly testaments to economic failure, a place like Eleanor reflects a government action that worked, and works.
 Ms. Carr watched Eleanor grow, from a place planted in mud nearly 75 years ago -- well before the Levittowns of post-World War II America -- to a town that proclaims itself the cleanest in West Virginia; a town with a budget, a mayor, a library, a Dairy Queen. Its development has been bitter, sweet, messy, quiet, ugly and beautiful, not unlike the evolution of this country.
 Driving her Rendezvous down roads intimately known, Ms. Carr says she fears that Eleanor's history is being pushed aside, that someday people will not know why the main street is called Roosevelt Boulevard, or even why the town is called Eleanor. 
 Then again, she says, maybe these are the protective fears of a woman who remembers how a dark-haired girl of 4 christened her new home long ago: by flushing the toilet in wondrous discovery, over and over, like a child of Steinbeck.
 ''Your eyes,'' she says, ''look at some things through your heart.''
 'Eventual Self-Support'
 In the desperate year of 1934, word spread through West Virginia's relief offices of another federal ''subsistence homesteading'' project. It would be similar to Arthurdale, a community recently created outside Morgantown for displaced mining families, many of whom had been living in shacks beside open sewers.
 Detractors ridiculed Arthurdale as a wrong-headed and expensive pet project for President Franklin D. Roosevelt's activist wife. But as Blanche Wiesen Cook noted in her authoritative biography of Eleanor Roosevelt, the first lady had seen first-hand the scrawny children, eating scraps hardly worth a dog's time. She held her ground. 
 More than 1,000 families applied to live in this new homestead called Red House Farms, about 30 miles west of Charleston, on property once owned by George Washington. After a vetting process to identify the physically and morally strong, just 150 were accepted, including the family of Robert Crockett, who had lost his job loading coal cars in Boone County. A military veteran with three children, the youngest named Marlane, he was lucky enough to be chosen with dozens of other men on relief to build and live in the settlement.
 Seventy-five years ago this month, Mrs. Roosevelt visited the nearly completed homestead with her good friend, the former journalist Lorena Hickok, whose cross-country reports as a kind of government scout had greatly influenced the first lady. ''From long deprivation the health of the people is beginning to break down,'' Ms. Hickok had written. ''Some of them have been starving for eight years. I was told there are children in West Virginia who have never tasted milk!''
 Four months later, the Crocketts and dozens of other families moved into this community of opportunity, designed for ''eventual self-support'': 150 homes on one-acre lots, each slightly different, each with a chicken coop, a small garden and that most exotic amenity, indoor plumbing. There was a hosiery factory in the works, a dairy farm, a canning operation, a grocery store, even a pool hall. (Something it did not have: black residents.)
 The families paid a modest rent to the government that could be applied to the purchase price. The government expected them to work, grow vegetables, learn home economics and engage in cultural pursuits, like joining the band. Their children were to keep clean, stay in school and take cod liver oil to ward against rickets. 
 If a family did not meet these expectations, it faced ''house notice'' -- public scolding that could lead to eviction.
 Not everything was idyllic. During another visit, Ms. Hickok heard complaints about cracks in the cinderblock walls, inadequate closet space, and a government that saw people as statistics. Mostly, the residents worried about finding employment beyond the homestead. A few, like Robert Crockett, worked for the community, in the dairy one day, on the farm the next.
 Save for the cod liver oil, the girl named Marlane loved it all. Picking up mail from the kitchen table of the postmistress. Snapping beans with her mother to prepare them for canning. Receiving a doll with a pink bonnet from Santa, who made his rounds a few days before the first Christmas, in a government truck.
 The first in the community to die was a little boy who had been struck in the head with a rock; the townspeople followed his light-colored coffin up a hill, where he was buried by the water tank. The first to be buried in the new cemetery, under some beech trees, was a woman who had cut herself while canning. Little Marlane liked to place dandelions on the sole tombstone; she would tell her mother the cemetery was so pretty that she hoped others would die.
 The town called Red House Farms soon changed its name to Eleanor, after the tall, approachable first lady. During one of her visits, she gave a pack of Doublemint gum to a girl named Dymple Cockrell. ''I thought I was the richest girl in town,'' recalls Ms. Cockrell, now 83 and living in the same homesteading house she moved into at the age of 8. ''I shared it, of course.''
 Sidewalks and Memories
 The Depression seeped into World War II. Three soldiers from Eleanor were killed and buried overseas. The community building called the Big Store burned down. After the war, the government got out of the controversial homesteading business, and essentially sold Eleanor to a corporation of its elders for $250,000. 
 One day Marlane jokingly told a friend she was going to marry that handsome sailor down the street. Two years later she did, eloping with Sandy Carr in 1947, when he was 21 and she was 16. Her father cried and said, You're going back and finishing high school. She did this, too.
 Eleanor slowly evolved. Some residents complained that others had taken advantage, selling off property that had always been considered communal. One morning the town awoke to find on every doorstep an anonymous six-page letter that criticized various inside deals and concluded with several plaintive questions, including: 
 Why is hot-rodding allowed in Eleanor?
 Marlane and Sandy, a high school teacher and coach, lived for a while above a chicken-and-gravy-style restaurant on Roosevelt Boulevard, then rented one of the original homes for about $25 a month. Finally, they built a house on the back end of his mother's property. They had three children: Sandra, Michael, and the baby, Rebekah, born with a congenital heart defect.
 The communal dairy barn burned. The canning operation disappeared. Marlane's beloved Rebekah died in her arms on the first day of classes, right there in the George Washington Middle School. Just 13, she was buried in the cemetery where her mother once laid dandelions on a solitary tombstone.
 To honor her daughter's memory, Marlane returned to school and became a surgical technician. All the while, little by little, Eleanor was changing: sidewalks, street lights, a community swimming pool. A Fruth's Pharmacy where the old Big Store once stood. Even a small shopping center at the end of town.
 Sensing time's fast passage, Marlane and others saw the need to celebrate Eleanor's history while some homesteaders were still alive. She helped to organize a 60th anniversary party, and a 65th, and a 70th. She began visiting classrooms, usually around Oct. 11 -- Eleanor Roosevelt's birthday -- and talked about the disagreements over the worth of these New Deal communities, the lingering stigma of having been called welfare recipients, and the unabashed love she had for Eleanor.
 She also served for a decade as a maverick member of the Town Council, one day unveiling another plan to beautify the town, and the next day tweaking the good old boys by questioning the large expenditures of the tiny police department. One thing about Marlane: she spoke her mind.
 The Rub of Time
 Eleanor government got ugly. In 1998, the police chief and two officers accused Marlane of sexual harassment, saying she had walked into their office, raised her shirt and exposed herself. She was 67, and the kind of woman who refused to wear shorts in public. The charge was nonsense, she says: clear retaliation.
 But the accusations became fodder for national late-night talk shows; Marlane wanted to hide. When she and her husband reluctantly drove up to the next council meeting, the Town Hall parking lot was packed with cars and television news trucks. She told Sandy she couldn't go in.
 In the years to come, the state's Human Rights Commission would find no merit to the harassment charges. The entire police force would be dismissed, amid findings of excessive pay raises and overtime. And Marlane would feel the democratic sting of being voted out of office.
 But on this night, Sandy insisted that Marlane walk into that meeting. And when she did, townspeople embraced this daughter of Eleanor with shouts of support.
 Marlane Crockett Carr ends her Rendezvous drive through the evolving American town of Eleanor. Its population has grown to 1,500 -- a number that includes nearly 20 original homesteaders, like Marlane. Its $500,000 budget pays the salaries of a handful of employees who work in Town Hall, clean the streets, police the town. And unemployment in the county is below the national average, thanks in part to a Toyota plant and a large auto parts manufacturer, Diamond Electric.
 Over all, things are good. When a business moves out, another usually moves in. When the town needed a library, students in the vocational school -- based in the old hosiery factory building -- did much of the labor, which helped to keep costs way down.
 Still, Marlane senses the history of Eleanor being worn away by the rub of time. Original houses were knocked down for a bank, a credit union, a Rite Aid. A relative demolished the house Marlane grew up in to clear space for a more modern home. 
 A few months ago, town officials held a 75th anniversary celebration, even though it was only the 74th. Marlane's offer to give a historical talk was ignored, so she stayed home. In her darker moments, she wonders whether homesteaders like her parents are still seen as welfare recipients, unworthy of celebration.
 But when she thinks of the struggles of Robert and Eva Crockett, both buried now in the cemetery, close to Rebekah, her eyes blur with tears. ''They had come from nothing,'' she says. ''They were told by Eleanor Roosevelt that it would be wonderful -- and it was.''
 As for that little dark-haired girl, Marlane says: ''I was so appreciative. I always loved knowing that I lived on George Washington's land.''
 Across from Town Hall, where portraits of Eleanor Roosevelt lie on the floor of a deserted room that is supposed to be a museum someday, the schools let out. As he does most afternoons, the police chief has parked his cruiser facing the Dairy Queen, in plain sight.
 Its presence announces: Slow down for the children of Eleanor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS)
The town of Eleanor, W.Va., created in 1935, still stands as a sign of the government's efforts to fight poverty. (A1)
Dymple Cockrell looked over historical photographs in what is designated to be the town's museum. As a child, Ms. Cockrell met Eleanor Roosevelt, who was visiting the town. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ms. Cockrell, left, and sister Bettie. At right top, Eleanor, on the drawing board, and below, as it is today.
 Marlane Crockett Carr, 78, remembers visiting the Eleanor cemetery when it had but one tombstone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) MAP: (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HISTORY (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); MAYORS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); FOOD SECURITY (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (65%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (64%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (64%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (78%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



707 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Tidings Of Comfort

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

DATELINE: Indulge me while I tell you a story 

 BODY:
-- a near-future version of Charles Dickens's ''A Christmas Carol.'' It begins with sad news: young Timothy Cratchit, a k a Tiny Tim, is sick. And his treatment will cost far more than his parents can pay out of pocket.
 Fortunately, our story is set in 2014, and the Cratchits have health insurance. Not from their employer: Ebenezer Scrooge doesn't do employee benefits. And just a few years earlier they wouldn't have been able to buy insurance on their own because Tiny Tim has a pre-existing condition, and, anyway, the premiums would have been out of their reach. 
 But reform legislation enacted in 2010 banned insurance discrimination on the basis of medical history and also created a system of subsidies to help families pay for coverage. Even so, insurance doesn't come cheap -- but the Cratchits do have it, and they're grateful. God bless us, everyone.
 O.K., that was fiction, but there will be millions of real stories like that in the years to come. Imperfect as it is, the legislation that passed the Senate on Thursday and will probably, in a slightly modified version, soon become law will make America a much better country.
 So why are so many people complaining? There are three main groups of critics.
 First, there's the crazy right, the tea party and death panel people -- a lunatic fringe that is no longer a fringe but has moved into the heart of the Republican Party. In the past, there was a general understanding, a sort of implicit clause in the rules of American politics, that major parties would at least pretend to distance themselves from irrational extremists. But those rules are no longer operative. No, Virginia, at this point there is no sanity clause.
 A second strand of opposition comes from what I think of as the Bah Humbug caucus: fiscal scolds who routinely issue sententious warnings about rising debt. By rights, this caucus should find much to like in the Senate health bill, which the Congressional Budget Office says would reduce the deficit, and which -- in the judgment of leading health economists -- does far more to control costs than anyone has attempted in the past. 
 But, with few exceptions, the fiscal scolds have had nothing good to say about the bill. And in the process they have revealed that their alleged concern about deficits is, well, humbug. As Slate's Daniel Gross says, what really motivates them is ''the haunting fear that someone, somewhere, is receiving social insurance.''
 Finally, there has been opposition from some progressives who are unhappy with the bill's limitations. Some would settle for nothing less than a full, Medicare-type, single-payer system. Others had their hearts set on the creation of a public option to compete with private insurers. And there are complaints that the subsidies are inadequate, that many families will still have trouble paying for medical care.
 Unlike the tea partiers and the humbuggers, disappointed progressives have valid complaints. But those complaints don't add up to a reason to reject the bill. Yes, it's a hackneyed phrase, but politics is the art of the possible.
 The truth is that there isn't a Congressional majority in favor of anything like single-payer. There is a narrow majority in favor of a plan with a moderately strong public option. The House has passed such a plan. But given the way the Senate rules work, it takes 60 votes to do almost anything. And that fact, combined with total Republican opposition, has placed sharp limits on what can be enacted. 
 If progressives want more, they'll have to make changing those Senate rules a priority. They'll also have to work long term on electing a more progressive Congress. But, meanwhile, the bill the Senate has just passed, with a few tweaks -- I'd especially like to move the start date up from 2014, if that's at all possible -- is more or less what the Democratic leadership can get.
 And for all its flaws and limitations, it's a great achievement. It will provide real, concrete help to tens of millions of Americans and greater security to everyone. And it establishes the principle -- even if it falls somewhat short in practice -- that all Americans are entitled to essential health care.
 Many people deserve credit for this moment. What really made it possible was the remarkable emergence of universal health care as a core principle during the Democratic primaries of 2007-2008 -- an emergence that, in turn, owed a lot to progressive activism. (For what it's worth, the reform that's being passed is closer to Hillary Clinton's plan than to President Obama's). This made health reform a must-win for the next president. And it's actually happening.
 So progressives shouldn't stop complaining, but they should congratulate themselves on what is, in the end, a big win for them -- and for America. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); POLITICS (87%); CHRISTMAS (78%); FAMILY (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



708 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 3469 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
THEATER
 Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.
 Previews and Openings
 'A VIEW FROM THE BRIDGE' Previews start on Monday. Opens on Jan. 24. Scarlett Johansson and Liev Schreiber should make this Arthur Miller revival a hot ticket. Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20091224
 Broadway
 'BURN THE FLOOR' A nonstop exhibition of pop ballroom dancing, directed and choreographed by Jason Gilkison. A little tacky and vulgar, but would you want your steamy cha-chas and tangos any other way? (2:05). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)20091224 
 'BYE BYE BIRDIE' Robert Longbottom's color-coded revival of this 1960 musical satire is a painful example of misapplied talent. The unlucky cast members include John Stamos, Gina Gershon and Bill Irwin (2:20). Henry Miller's Theater, 124 West 43rd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)20091224
 'FELA!' This transporting musical biography of a Nigerian revolutionary of song doesn't so much tell a story as soak an audience to, and through, the skin with the style and sensibility called Afrobeat. There has never been anything on Broadway like Bill T. Jones's kinetic production, which stars the charismatic Sahr Ngaujah and Kevin Mambo (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'FINIAN'S RAINBOW' A glorious cast restores the luster of this oddball 1947 musical with a first-rate score by E. Y. Harburg and Burton Lane. Kate Baldwin and Cheyenne Jackson are the frisky lovers, Jim Norton the wily Irishman with a purloined pot of gold, and Christopher Fitzgerald the leprechaun on the lam. Daft? Yes, but heaven for musical theater lovers (2:25) St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'GOD OF CARNAGE'Christine Lahti, Annie Potts, Jimmy Smits and Ken Stott are the able new combatants in Yasmina Reza's shallow but entertaining comedy about the beastly ways of husbands and wives (1:30). Bernard Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'HAIR' (Tony Award for best musical revival.) Diane Paulus's thrilling, emotionally rich revival of the 1967 rock musical delivers what Broadway otherwise hasn't felt this season: the intense, unadulterated joy and anguish of that bipolar state called youth. A production that finds the complexity and deep ambivalence in a show people tend to remember as a feel-good free-for-all (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'IN THE NEXT ROOM, OR THE VIBRATOR PLAY'Sarah Ruhl's delightful new play is set in the late 19th century in the adjoining parlor and consulting room of a doctor who specializes in treating ''hysteria'' in women with the use of a newfangled electrified aid. Michael Cerveris is the kindly doctor, Laura Benanti his curious wife. A real novelty: a sex comedy written for adults (2:30). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'IRVING BERLIN'S WHITE CHRISTMAS' This seasonal offering, a stage version of the 1950s movie with some additional songs drafted for the occasion, features new faces in the main roles this year, but it's just as lukewarm as ever. The most interesting addition is David Ogden Stiers as the retired general at whose Vermont inn most of the action takes place (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Neil Genzlinger)20091224
 'A LITTLE NIGHT MUSIC'Trevor Nunn's nudgingly acted, lugubriously slow revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's erotic waltz of a musical is most notable for the participation of the lustrous Catherine Zeta-Jones, in a lively (if miscast) Broadway debut, and of the indomitable (and invaluable) Angela Lansbury (2:50). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'MEMPHIS' In the city of the title in the 1950s, a pioneering white radio D.J. (the endearing Chad Kimball) falls in love with R&B music and one of its comely practitioners (the lovely Montego Glover) in this slick but essentially soulless musical written by David Bryan and Joe DiPietro (''The Toxic Avenger'') and fleetly directed by Christopher Ashley. Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'NEXT TO NORMAL' No show on Broadway makes as direct a grab for the heart -- or wrings it as thoroughly -- as this brave, breathtaking musical. Tom Kitt and Brian Yorkey's portrait of a manic-depressive suburban mom (the astounding Alice Ripley) and her family, directed by Michael Greif, isn't a feel-good musical. It's a feel-everything musical (2:20). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'RACE'David Mamet's surprisingly slack examination of a hot-button topic registers well within the average Broadway audience's comfort zone. There are glimmers of the author's scalpel-edge intelligence, and James Spader is excellent as a white lawyer representing a white man accused of raping a black woman. David Alan Grier, Richard Thomas and Kerry Washington round out the able cast (1:40). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'RAGTIME' Marcia Milgrom Dodge's appealingly modest interpretation of this 1998 musical about early-20th-century American growing pains, adapted from E. L. Doctorow's novel, finds an affecting, uneasy human soul within the work's panoramic sweep. This production doesn't disguise the work's hearty preachiness, but it elicits glimmers of delicate beauty (2:45). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'ROCK OF AGES' The Sunset Strip in the 1980s is the setting for this absurdly enjoyable jukebox musical weaving more than two dozen arena-rock hits from the glory years of MTV -- from Journey and Pat Benatar to Poison and Whitesnake -- into a story of heartbreak and warped-vinyl dreams. Big hair, songs that are trashy fun, fabulous cast (2:25). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'SHREK THE MUSICAL' This musical cavalcade of storybook effigies, adapted from the animated film of the same title, can feel like 40 blocks' worth of a Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, accompanied by an exhaustingly jokey commentary. But Brian d'Arcy James and the hypertalented Sutton Foster find a sweet, goofy chemistry as an ogre and a princess (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'SUPERIOR DONUTS' The new play from the ''August: Osage County'' author Tracy Letts is a warm-hearted, bile-free comedy about the friendship between an emotionally stunted ex-radical (Michael McKean) and the brash young man he hires to help out in the establishment of the title (Jon Michael Hill, in an exciting Broadway debut). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'WEST SIDE STORY' In a startlingly sweet revival of this epochal musical, Arthur Laurents trades insolence for innocence, with dividends and losses. If the Jets and the Sharks seem too cute to be true, the show's doomed lovers (played by Josefina Scaglione and Matt Cavenaugh) have rarely been more affecting. And as Anita, Karen Olivo is a stunner (2:35). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, near 46th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'WISHFUL DRINKING'Carrie Fisher's brut-dry, deeply funny one-woman show allows you to see the world through the self-dissociating gaze of a child of Hollywood who has always lived in a fishbowl (2:20). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)20091224
 Off Broadway
 'AVENUE Q' Even without legs of their own, the singing hand puppets of this Tony-winning musical are still standing tall in their new Off Broadway digs. This ''Sesame Street''-style show about being young and jobless in New York remains fresh, in all senses of the word (2:15) New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'BRIEF ENCOUNTER' This captivating adaptation of the 1945 film, a British import from the Kneehigh Theater Company, may traffic in the antics of classic stage spoofery, but its real raison d'etre is to love, honor and obey the spirit of the movie that inspired it. Emma Rice is the inventive director (1:35). St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn , (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Brantley)20091224
 'A BRITISH SUBJECT' This fast-paced but formulaic play traces the real-life story of a journalist who campaigns to free a man unjustly imprisoned in Pakistan. (1:15) 59E59 Street Theaters, 59 East 59th Street , (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Ken Jaworowski)20091224
 'CIRCLE MIRROR TRANSFORMATION' Annie Baker's absorbing, unblinking and sharply funny one-act takes place in a ''creative drama'' class in Vermont, where relationships form and fold, secrets are revealed, and everyone gets in touch with his or her inner child (1:45). Playwrights Horizons Peter J. Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Anita Gates)20091224
 'CIRCUMCISE ME' Yisrael Campbell's highly entertaining account of his conversion to Judaism -- not once but three times -- is elevated beyond shtick by the recognition that, aside from the jokes, this is Mr. Campbell's life, and that his quest for a ''relationship with God'' continues even after the house lights rise (1:30). Bleecker Street Theater, 45 Bleecker Street, East Village , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)20091224
 'DO NOT GO GENTLE' This one-man show about the poet Dylan Thomas forgoes plot to focus on the writer's beautiful words (1:35). Clurman Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Jaworowski)20091224
 'THE EMPEROR JONES' Ciaran O'Reilly's inspired, poetic production of Eugene O'Neill's short, brutal drama -- starring a wondrous John Douglas Thompson -- finds Jungian echoes of universal resonance in a work often perceived as a dated portrait of the black man's burden (1:10). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street , (212) 691-1555, sohoplayhouse.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'LET ME DOWN EASY'Anna Deavere Smith's engrossing new show, drawing as usual on verbatim excerpts from interviews with a wide variety of subjects, addresses the power and the fragility of the human body and its susceptibility to disease. Most moving are the many voices discussing the harsh realities of death, and the possibility of finding grace in its shadow (1:30). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 246-4422, 2ST.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'LOVE CHILD' Daniel Jenkins and Robert Stanton star in this rollicking two-hander, which they also wrote. It's a backstage story in which the two men play all the characters: a group of actors staging a ridiculous updating of Euripides, as well as a couple of overly loud audience members. No wigs or costume changes here: it's all in the tics and accents, and half the fun is seeing if you can keep up (1:20). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Genzlinger)20091224
 'LOVE, LOSS, AND WHAT I WORE' Or, shoes, bags and heartaches. A stuffed closet of comic or poignant stories, or both, collected by Nora and Delia Ephron, about women and their relationship to clothes. Featuring a rotating cast of five comics and actors. Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'MISALLIANCE' A delightful revival of one of Shaw's breeziest comedies. If it is one of his talkier plays, it is also very witty, and the Pearl production gives full voice to the playwright's litany of sins committed in the name of English propriety (2:30). City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan , (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Wilborn Hampton)20091224
 'THE ORPHANS' HOME CYCLE': PART ONE: THE STORY OF A CHILDHOOD On the basis of the three-work production that begins this New York premiere, Horton Foote's heart-piercing, nine-play family album about growing up lonely in early-20th-century Texas should be the great adventure of the theater season. Directed with cinematic fluidity and novelistic detail by Michael Wilson (2:50). Signature Theater at Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Brantley)20091224
 'OUR TOWN' David Cromer strips away the folksy warmth in which Thornton Wilder's play is often saturated to reveal this classic's quietly mournful depths. This wonderfully intimate production puts a small audience smack in the middle of Grover's Corners (2:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'THIS' Melissa James Gibson's tart, melancholy comedy about four close friends entering the choppy waters of middle age turns on a familiar marital calamity -- a straying husband -- but does so with freshness, distinctive verbal wit and emotional insight. Daniel Aukin directs a flawless cast (2:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'THE TOXIC AVENGER' A dopey, intermittently funny musical version of the cheapo Troma picture. A geek-turned-monster in New Jersey tears the limbs off evildoers while singing pop-rock anthems. The cast is fun, but Joe DiPietro's book and David Bryan's music are mostly mediocre (1:40). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'THE UNDERSTUDY'Julie White fabricates bountiful laughs from a sumptuous display of strained nerves in Theresa Rebeck's scattershot backstage comedy, which also stars Justin Kirk (''Weeds'') and Mark-Paul Gosselaar (''Saved by the Bell'') as actors on far different levels of the showbiz totem pole (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)20091224
 'ZERO HOUR' Jim Brochu does an excellent imitation of Zero Mostel in his standard-issue bio-play (1:50). Theater at Saint Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Jason Zinoman)20091224
 Off Off Broadway
 'ROMEO AND JULIET' The Nature Theater of Oklahoma's inspired riff on Shakespeare's classic consists of verbatim monologues in which people recount all they know about the star-crossed lovers. These variously informed, confused, chaotic and plain crazy soliloquies are performed with fake-histrionic brilliance by Anne Gridley and Robert M. Johanson (1:30). The Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org. (Isherwood)20091224
 Extravaganzas
 'BIG APPLE CIRCUS: BELLO IS BACK!' The high-haired clown Bello Nock returns to the big top, along with an astonishingly talented group of exciting performers (1:50). Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center , (888) 541-3750, bigapplecircus.org. (Jaworowski)20091224
 'RADIO CITY CHRISTMAS SPECTACULAR' With its idealized celebrations of Christmas, New York and Radio City itself, the Spectacular is a curio, a throwback to a golden era of stage shows, complete with Santa, camels and the Rockettes. Corny? Sure. But that's a huge part of its appeal (1:30). Radio City Music Hall , (212) 307-1000, ticketmaster.com. (Gold)20091224
 'WINTUK' This family-oriented holiday extravaganza from Cirque du Soleil is high on action, if short on emotion (1:30). WaMu Theater at Madison Square Garden , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Jaworowski)20091224
 Long-Running Shows
 'ALFRED HITCHCOCK'S THE 39 STEPS' A theatrical riff on the 1935 Hitchcock movie (1:45). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'ALTAR BOYZ' A satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'BILLY ELLIOT THE MUSICAL' Ballet dreams in coal country(2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'CELEBRITY AUTOBIOGRAPHY: IN THEIR OWN WORDS' A rotating cast of comics and actors reads selections of the witless wisdom culled from the tell-all tomes of the rich and famous (1:30). Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'CHICAGO' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'THE FANTASTICKS' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'FUERZA BRUTA: LOOK UP' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. ( Isherwood)20091224
 'GAUGUIN/SAVAGE LIGHT' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Genzlinger)20091224
 'IN THE HEIGHTS' A musical panorama of a neighborhood in Washington Heights undergoing change (2:20). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)20091224
 'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'THE LION KING' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, at Broadway , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'THE MARVELOUS WONDERETTES' At a 1958 prom, this jukebox musical's title characters sing hits of the era from a female perspective; they return at their 10-year reunion, weathered and wiser. For fanciers of the girl-group sound, the production is an utter charm bomb (2:00). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Webster)20091224
 'MARY POPPINS' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street , (212) 307-4747, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'MY FIRST TIME' Ken Davenport's venture into Web-theater synergy mines a site called MyFirstTime.com to cull stories of inaugural encounters with sex (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ginia Bellafante)20091224
 'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'SOUTH PACIFIC' A 1949 tale of men and women unmoored by war (2:50). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091224
 'WICKED' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091224
 Last Chance
 'CAPTAIN PANTOJA AND THE SPECIAL SERVICE/PANTALEON Y LAS VISITADORAS'; closes on Saturday. Peruvian soldiers in the Amazon need female companionship, so Captain Pantoja enlists a whole corps of prostitutes, complete with cute, midriff-baring uniforms. This rousing, sexy and surprisingly sweet new musical could give bawdiness a good name. In Spanish with simultaneous English translation. Repertorio Espanol at the Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street , (212) 225-9920, repertorio.org. (Gates)20091224
 'THE GREAT RECESSION'; closes on Wednesday. Short plays by Will Eno, Adam Rapp and others about our annus horribilis pay little in the way of dividends (2:00). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa , (212) 352-3101, theflea.org. (Isherwood)20091224
 'SHE LIKE GIRLS'; closes on Wednesday. Though inspired by a true-life hate crime -- the shooting of a high school girl, a lesbian, at a Newark bus stop -- Chisa Hutchinson's play is really a love story and a coming-out story. Ms. Hutchinson makes a few missteps, but has a fine ear for dialogue. This energetic production was directed by Jared Culverhouse (1:30). The Ohio Theater, 66 Wooster Street, SoHo , (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com. (Rachel Saltz)20091224

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'In the Next Room, or the vibrator play': This new comedy by Sarah Ruhl takes place in the parlor and consulting room of Dr. Givings (Michael Cerveris, center), who treats ''hysteria'' in women. Maria Dizzia, left, plays his patient, and Laura Benanti, right, is the doctor's curious wife. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (79%); DANCE (79%); POP & ROCK (75%); THEATER (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); MUSIC (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (51%)

PERSON: SCARLETT JOHANSSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



709 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Governor's Friends Shun 'David,' Preferring an Image More Like Goliath

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
You can call him Governor -- but many do not. You can call him Mr. Paterson, though fewer do. You can even, under 18th-century protocol, call him Your Excellency, but it does not appear anyone ever has.
 Just be careful calling him David.
 As Gov. David A. Paterson attempts to raise his stature in preparation for his election run next year, some of his close supporters are saying that people should stop calling him by his first name, saying it diminishes him and fails to reflect the prestige of the office he holds.
 ''People should call him Governor,'' said Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, chairman of the Manhattan Democratic Party, who is one of Mr. Paterson's closest supporters. ''I've only known the man 40 years, and I call him Governor. I think other people should, too.''
 But it is has been a difficult transition, especially around the State Capitol. Nearly two years after he assumed the governor's office, many still view Mr. Paterson as an affable but not especially elevated or intimidating figure and continue to address him rather casually. 
 Appearing before small-business owners with the governor this month, Senator William T. Stachowski of Buffalo announced: ''Don't worry, David. I won't talk long,'' then quickly corrected himself. ''Governor.''
 A few days later, the New York City comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., was asked about next year's election.
 ''If David, if, you know, Governor Paterson, is going to be the candidate, is going to move forward,'' Mr. Thompson said of a Paterson campaign, ''I think that everybody needs to coalesce, you know, join around him.'' 
 How Mr. Paterson is addressed in public may seem like a small thing, but it could be a concern as he undertakes an expensive effort to create a loftier image for himself and combat public perceptions of him as an ineffectual accidental leader. (Mr. Paterson's predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, was almost always addressed in public as Governor.) 
 Mr. Paterson's consultants have begun a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign and have staged a number of high-profile events meant to evoke a more sober and gubernatorial tone and emphasize his role in major public policy issues. 
 Mr. Paterson made two trips this month to Wall Street, where he delivered formal remarks on the economy that generated widespread attention and discussion of the role of the financial sector in the state's fiscal stability. He held ceremonial bill signings and summoned gay rights advocates, some of his most loyal backers, to a gathering to sign an executive order granting antidiscrimination protection to transgender employees at state agencies for the first time.
 The television commercials, shot in soft black and white, portray Mr. Paterson as a serious if sympathetic leader, grappling with the recession. But they also remind viewers of his blindness, suggesting he can persevere in difficult situations.
 Mr. Paterson's standing with voters early this year was lower than that of any other governor in modern history, with only 26 percent of the voters surveyed in one poll saying that he was doing either a good or excellent job, but the ads and his tough stand on state spending appear to be having a positive effect.
 Being called David can undercut that improvement, and undermine his perceived authority. ''I rarely hear the word governor. I always hear David,'' said George Arzt, a campaign strategist who advises Democratic candidates in New York. ''On the one hand, it's charming, in a campaign sort of way, that he's one of the people. On the other hand, it shows he's not feared.''
 Mr. Paterson is hardly the only elected official who has had problems with people forgetting to use his title. After David N. Dinkins was elected mayor in 1989, it took some time for many people to stop calling him Dave. 
 First-name calling was also a problem for President Obama during the first few months of his presidency, when people who knew him from his days in the Senate would frequently refer to him as Barack.
 For governors of New York, the title has typically stuck. Few dared address Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who could be famously stern, as Mario. It was almost always governor. George E. Pataki was -- and still is -- Governor Pataki to his colleagues. Few but his wife ever called him George.
 But for legislative leaders in Albany, the honorifics are sometimes dropped. Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the Assembly, is known to most people as Shelly. Malcolm A. Smith, the Senate president, is just Malcolm. In fact, Albany legislators said they believed that a major reason people still called the governor David is that they grew accustomed to doing so during the two decades he was a state senator, including three years as minority leader.
 ''When he's been David for 20-some-odd years of his life, and to become Governor, it's hard,'' said Assemblyman Darryl C. Towns, a Democrat from Brooklyn who is a close friend of Mr. Paterson's.
 When Mr. Paterson took over after Mr. Spitzer's resignation, Charles J. O'Byrne, who had been his top statehouse aide, was especially scolding toward those who continued to call the governor David.
 Still, in a recent interview, Mr. Paterson was more understanding, saying that he thinks people call him by his first name because ''they feel like they know me.''
 ''Calling someone by their first name could be degrading when they're a governor or something like that,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''And I think that sometimes people who really care about me have mistaken it. But it's more, I would assess, to a likeability factor.'' 
 Likeability is probably not enough to get Mr. Paterson elected next fall, but two recent polls indicate that his numbers have begun to pick up. A Quinnipiac University poll released last week found that 38 percent of voters viewed him favorably, up about 10 percentage points from this summer. A Siena Research Institute poll also released last week found similar favorable ratings, and showed that the percentage of voters viewing him unfavorably dropped to 53 percent, the lowest unfavorable rating since February.
 Mr. Paterson said he thought that voters were beginning to view him in a different way. ''I think over a period of time they start to realize, 'Hey this guy is really working hard, and he's one of us. He's not one of them.' '' 
 Mr. Wright, who has known Mr. Paterson since both were young men, said people often underestimate the governor because he seems an easygoing sort. He and other supporters warn that just because Mr. Paterson is jocular and quick with a quip does not mean that he is soft when it comes to governing.
 ''People mistake kindness for weakness a lot of times, and such is really not the case,'' Mr. Wright said. ''David uses his -- excuse me, the governor uses his -- likeability quotient for good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Governor Paterson shaved his mustache in September. Being called David ''shows he's not feared,'' a strategist said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (60%); LGBT RIGHTS (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



710 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: SENATE APPROVES HEALTH CARE BILL IN PARTY-LINE VOTE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate voted Thursday to reinvent the nation's health care system, passing a bill to guarantee access to health insurance for tens of millions of Americans and to rein in health costs.
 The 60-to-39 party-line vote, starting at 7:05 a.m. on the 25th straight day of debate on the legislation, brings Democrats closer to a goal they have pursued for decades and brings President Obama a step closer to success in his signature domestic initiative. When the roll was called, with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. presiding, it was the first time the Senate had gathered for a vote on Christmas Eve since 1895. 
 If the bill becomes law, it would be a milestone in social policy, comparable to the creation of Social Security in 1935 and Medicare in 1965. But unlike those programs, the initiative lacks bipartisan support. Only one Republican supported a broadly similar bill that the House approved last month 220 to 215, and no Republicans backed the Senate version.
 After the vote, lawmakers and Mr. Obama wasted no time leaving for their holiday break, well aware that their return to Washington would mean plunging into negotiations to reconcile the measures passed by the two chambers. 
 If a deal can be struck, as seems likely, the resulting law would vastly expand the role and responsibilities of the federal government. It would, as lawmakers said repeatedly in the debate, touch the lives of nearly all Americans.
 The bill would require most Americans to have health insurance, would add 15 million people to the Medicaid rolls and would subsidize private coverage for low- and middle-income people, at a cost to the government of $871 billion over 10 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
 The budget office estimates that the bill would provide coverage to 31 million uninsured people, but still leave 23 million uninsured in 2019. One-third of those remaining uninsured would be illegal immigrants.
 Mr. Obama hailed the Senate action. ''We are now incredibly close to making health insurance reform a reality,'' he said, before leaving the White House to celebrate Christmas in Hawaii.
 The president, who endorsed the Senate and House bills, said he would be deeply involved in trying to help the two chambers work out their differences. But it is unclear how specific he will be -- if, for example, he will push for one type of tax over another or try to concoct a compromise on insurance coverage for abortion.
 Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, a moderate Republican who has spent years working with Democrats on health care and other issues, said she was ''extremely disappointed'' with the bill's evolution in recent weeks. After Senate Democrats locked up 60 votes within their caucus, she said, ''there was zero opportunity to amend the bill or modify it, and Democrats had no incentive to reach across the aisle.'' 
 Like many Republicans, Ms. Snowe was troubled by new taxes and fees in the bill, which she said could have ''a dampening effect on job creation and job preservation.'' The bill would increase the Medicare payroll tax on high-income people and levy a new excise tax on high-premium insurance policies, as one way to control costs.
 When the roll was called Thursday morning, the mood was solemn as senators called out ''aye'' or ''no.'' Senator Robert C. Byrd, the 92-year-old Democrat from West Virginia, deviated slightly from the protocol. 
 ''This is for my friend Ted Kennedy,'' Mr. Byrd said. ''Aye!'' 
 Senator Kennedy of Massachusetts, a longtime champion of universal health care, died of brain cancer in August at age 77.
 Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, did not vote.
 The fight on Capitol Hill prefigures a larger political battle that is likely to play out in the elections of 2010 and 2012, as Democrats try to persuade a skeptical public of the bill's merits, while Republicans warn that it will drive up costs for those who already have insurance.
 ''Our members are leaving happy and upbeat,'' said the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. ''The public is on our side. This fight is not over.''
 After struggling for years to expand health insurance in modest, incremental ways, Democrats decided this year that they could not let another opportunity slip away. As usual, lawmakers were deluged with appeals from lobbyists for health care interests who have stymied similar ambitious efforts in the past. But this year was different.
 Lawmakers listened to countless stories of hardship told by constituents who had been denied insurance, lost coverage when they got sick or seen their premiums soar. Hostility to the insurance industry was a theme throughout the Senate debate. 
 Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said insurance companies were often ''just one step ahead of the sheriff.'' Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said the industry ''lacks a moral compass.'' And Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, said the business model of the industry ''deserves a stake through its cold and greedy heart.''
 The bill would establish strict federal standards for an industry that, since its inception, has been regulated mainly by the states. Under it, insurers could not deny coverage because of a person's medical condition; could not charge higher premiums because of a person's sex or health status; and could not rescind coverage when a person became sick or disabled. The government would, in effect, limit insurers' profits by requiring them to spend at least 80 to 85 cents of every premium dollar on health care.
 The specificity of federal standards is illustrated by one section of the bill, which requires insurers to issue a benefits summary that ''does not exceed four pages in length and does not include print smaller than 12-point font.''
 Another force propelling health legislation through the Senate was the Democrats' view that it was a moral imperative and an economic necessity.
 ''The health insurance policies of America, what we have right now is a moral disgrace,'' said Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa. ''We are called upon to right a great injustice, a great wrong that has been put upon the American people.''
 Costs of the bill would, according to the Congressional Budget Office, be more than offset by new taxes and fees and by savings in Medicare. The bill would squeeze nearly a half-trillion dollars from Medicare over the next 10 years, mainly by reducing the growth of payments to hospitals, nursing homes, Medicare Advantage plans and other providers.
 Republicans asserted that the cuts would hurt Medicare beneficiaries. But AARP, the lobby for older Americans, and the American Medical Association ran an advertisement urging senators to pass the bill, under which Medicare would cover more of the cost for prescription drugs and preventive health services.
 Karen M. Ignagni, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said the bill appeared to be unstoppable. But she added: ''We are not sure it will be workable. It could disrupt existing coverage for families, seniors and small businesses, particularly between now and when the legislation is fully implemented in 2014.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thursday was the first time the Senate had gathered for a vote on Christmas Eve since 1895. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) CHART: How the Health Care Proposals Compare: The Senate approved a sweeping legislation to overhaul the nation's health care system on Thursday. The House approved its bill in November. The proposals are broadly similar but differ on some major issues, like a new government insurance plan, abortion and how to pay for the expansion of coverage. A House-Senate conference committee will try to iron out the differences between the two bills when Congress returns to work in January. A look at some key differences between the proposals: House: Senate (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); MEDICAID (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); BUDGET FORECASTS (63%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



711 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 NETANYAHU ASKS A RIVAL TO JOIN ISRAELI GOVERNMENT
 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu surprised the leader of the Kadima party, Tzipi Livni, with an offer to join his government, saying Israel faced existential choices that required a broad coalition. PAGE A4 
 EX-AIDES INDICTED IN JAPAN 
 A campaign finance scandal that has nagged at Japan's new prime minister, Yukio Hatoyama, deepened with the indictment of two former aides accused of falsely reporting donations. PAGE A6 
 2 BOMBINGS NEAR BAGHDAD
 Two bombs exploded within minutes of each other near a bus station in Hilla, about 65 miles south of Baghdad, killing 10 people and wounding 110 others, the Iraqi authorities said. PAGE A8 
 BOMB KILLS 8 IN AFGHANISTAN
 A horse-drawn cart carrying explosives blew up near a Kandahar guest house frequented by foreigners and government officials, killing eight people. PAGE A8 
 WOMAN TOPPLES POPE
 A woman jumped the barriers in St. Peter's Basilica and knocked down Pope Benedict XVI as he walked down the main aisle to begin Christmas Eve Mass. The pope was not hurt. PAGE A8 
 Inquiry Further Angers Kashmir A4
 China Sentences 5 to Death A11 
 Russia-Georgia Crossing Opens A14 
 Russia Fights Police Corruption A14 
 National
 HELICOPTERS ARE CASUALTY IN CUTBACKS BY THE POLICE
 Colorado Springs joined a growing list of cities, particularly in the Midwest and the West, that eliminated their police helicopter units because of municipal budget cuts this year. PAGE A12 
 WOMEN AT THE CHESSBOARD
 Girls make up a small fraction of the children who play in chess tournaments. And among adults, female players are even rarer. A nonprofit organization in Tucson, 9 Queens, wants to change that. PAGE A12 
 Digital Helping Hands, in Flesh A3 
 New York
 STATE'S POPULATION GROWS AT FASTEST RATE SINCE 2001
 The quickening of New York's population growth was helped by less people leaving, estimates from the Census Bureau show. But the state will most likely still lose a seat in Congress. PAGE A24 
 SUPPORTERS SHUN 'DAVID'
 As Gov. David A. Paterson tries to raise his stature in preparation for his election run next year, some of his close supporters are saying that people should stop calling him by his first name. PAGE A23 
 AN OFF-WHITE CHRISTMAS
 It will be a white Christmas, more or less. A thick layer of snow still coats much of the city. But gaze at the gray masses along the sidewalks. Is this the vision of which Bing Crosby crooned? PAGE A23 
 Business
 RISE OF WIND POWER IS BOON FOR ROCK CLIMBERS
 Rope specialists have long filled a range of niche jobs, like inspecting big dams and cleaning Mount Rushmore. But as wind farms have multiplied, rope companies have quickly expanded into a new line of work -- fixing turbines so they last longer in the elements. PAGE B1
 SENATE INCREASES DEBT LIMIT
 The Senate approved a short-term increase in federal borrowing authority, finishing one last must-pass measure and bringing the first session of the 111th Congress to a close. PAGE B2 
 ASIAN AIRLINES KEEP FRILLS
 In the United States, many airlines responded to a drop-off in travelers by tacking on charges for some of the niceties of flying. But many carriers in the Asia-Pacific region are trying to persuade people to fly by pampering them more. PAGE B3 
 Berkshire Shed 8% of Workers B2 
 Vietnam Refining Economic Role B3 
 Sports
 AS INCOMES PLUNGE, ARENAS DEEPEN MUNICIPAL MISERIES
 From New Jersey to Ohio to Arizona, deals behind publicly financed stadiums have backfired, a result of overly optimistic revenue assumptions and the recession. And in many cases, the architects of the deals are long gone. PAGE B8
 Injury Ends Delhomme's Season B9
 Boxers' Camps Still Sparing B10
 Weekend
 STRONG SALES OF JUNG BOOK OPEN EYES IN THE INDUSTRY
 The breakout of the holiday book-buying season just may have been a nine-pound, 416-page, $195 tome that records the dreams of an author who has been dead for nearly half a century: ''The Red Book'' by Carl Jung. PAGE A27 
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A27 
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXPLOSIVES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); SCANDALS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); CHILDREN (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); HELICOPTERS (65%); CENSUS (65%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); BOARD GAMES (64%); TOURNAMENTS (64%); WIND ENERGY (62%); MOUNTAINS (62%); CLIMBING (60%); WIND POWER PLANTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: KADIMA (84%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); TZIPORA LIVNI (90%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%); YUKIO HATOYAMA (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GEORGIA (70%); HOLY SEE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009



712 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Direct Selling Flourishes in China, Providing Jobs and Igniting Criticism

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: HANGZHOU, China 

 BODY:
Roughly 28,000 young women crowded into the Dragon Sports Arena here for a three-day gathering in September hosted by Mary Kay Cosmetics.
 The goal was to pump up the crowd, and the song-and-dance troupe, the video testimonials about transformed lives and the awarding of the signature pink Cadillac to a top earner had the desired effect.
 ''I love the corporate culture of Mary Kay,'' said Zhang Xiaoying, a 19-year-old woman from Guizhou, one of the country's poorest regions, as she and several colleagues dabbed on makeup during a break in the event. ''This company teaches you to aspire to a higher level.'' 
 Ms. Zhang earns very little in her new job. But the promise of future rewards is what has persuaded her and about 200,000 other women to become ''beauty consultants,'' or independent sales agents, for Mary Kay in China. 
 Avon and Amway, two other American companies that use independent representatives, have even larger sales forces here. Avon says it recruits up to 50,000 women a month and now has one million agents.
 Indeed, as China's economic boom unfolds here, door-to-door sales and what is known as direct selling is sweeping the country, breathing new life into old American brands and creating hundreds of thousands of jobs, often for disadvantaged or poorly educated young women.
 But that growth has not come without controversy. Many direct sellers in China have been accused of operating sophisticated pyramid schemes and other sales swindles. (In one widely publicized case a few years ago, people were conned into buying stakes in ant farms.)
 Even American companies operating in China have been accused of manipulating and misleading sales recruits. 
 ''Some of them recruit people in a deceptive way, like you can become super-rich in a month,'' says Chen Defa, chairman of the Chinese Academy of Direct Selling Management.
 Because of such concerns, China banned direct selling in 1998, saying that it was often used as a cover for ''evil cults, secret societies and lawless and superstitious activities.''
 Big direct-selling companies disputed those claims, saying regulators simply misunderstood their business model.
 In 2006, after heavy lobbying from American companies, China lifted its ban. And since then, direct selling, with some modifications, has flourished in China, growing into an $8 billion industry that now markets products as diverse as health supplements, cosmetics, toothpaste and dishwashing liquid.
 ''Direct sellers see unlimited opportunities here,'' says Kent Kedl, a Shanghai-based analyst at Technomics Asia, the market research firm. ''They see the combination of entrepreneurial sellers and adventuresome consumers.''
 Companies engaged in direct selling are succeeding in China by using many of the same techniques that worked elsewhere, analysts say. They often recruit young women and motivate them to sell aggressively, particularly to friends and family members. Companies also use multilevel marketing programs that reward workers for recruiting other agents.
 Revenue in China for Mary Kay, which is based in Dallas, has doubled to $600 million in the last three years. ''We're going to grow another 20 percent this year,'' despite the economic downturn, says Paul Mak, head of Mary Kay China, despite the global economic slowdown. ''People haven't stopped buying cosmetics.''
 The company's message of female empowerment and femininity seems to resonate in China, a country where young women have few opportunities to start their own businesses.
 ''The direct-selling industry has quite a low entrance threshold,'' says Wang Yi, who teaches at the Beijing Business Management College. 
 Like other direct sellers, Mary Kay has expanded in China -- one of the 35 countries where it operates, generating total revenue of $2.6 billion last year -- by working hard to recruit new representatives.
 The company operates with a kind of missionary zeal, analysts say, pushing sales agents to invite friends and family members to makeup classes and seminars that quickly evolve into small communities of women who follow the sales gospel of Mary Kay.
 Many Mary Kay sales agents say that before joining the company they held low-paying jobs as secretaries, cashiers and rural schoolteachers. Many were also looking for a new focus of their lives. ''Because my husband is a businessman, and he is busy, we talked less and less,'' says Lu Laidi, a Mary Kay sales director. ''I felt my life was boring. I stayed home and barely dressed up.''
 While many Mary Kay sales representatives say they earn very little, those who follow the company's sales and recruiting strategies can become wealthy.
 One sales director, Jin Yan, said that after 12 years at Mary Kay, she earned nearly $400,000 last year.
 She now drives a pink Cadillac, a reward from the company.
 But not everyone succeeds. Shang Qun, a 28-year-old sales agent in eastern Jiangsu Province, said she was pressured to meet unrealistic sales goals and to deliver dozens of names of potential clients to the company during her first months of selling.
 ''Mary Kay has many direct-selling refugees,'' she says. ''They claim Mary Kay can make you big money, but their pockets are empty.''
 Crayton Webb, a Mary Kay spokesman, defended the company. ''Mary Kay is extremely careful in communicating to members of the independent sales force that their success is up to them,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''There are no guarantees and that they should invest in their business carefully.''
 Many other agents interviewed in recent months agreed, saying Mary Kay had helped them earn a good living, and also transformed their lives. 
 Zhang Xiaoying, the 19-year-old woman at the September seminar, said that a year ago she was a cashier in the coastal boomtown of Shenzhen when a friend introduced her to Mary Kay.
 Today, she is paid just $200 a month, not much more than she got as a cashier. But, she says, it's a start.
 ''I love this company because they give us professional training,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A sales agent for Mary Kay Cosmetics checks her makeup at a company gathering in Hangzhou, China. (B1)
 Top, Mary Kay sales directors at a seminar in Hangzhou. Above, a sales director, Jin Xianghua, at left, helps a customer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACKSON LOWEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); DIRECT SALES FORCE (90%); SALES FORCE (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COSMETICS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (76%); LOBBYING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); CULTS & SECTS (66%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%); DANCE (57%)

COMPANY: MARY KAY HOLDING CORP (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (92%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



713 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: A Daughter Of Adventure Finds Her Own

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
Imagine that you were traveling on the cheap in Cambodia when a phone call changed your itinerary and your life.
 Imagine that as part of that sea change, you found yourself unexpectedly back aboard the famous, sturdy sloop that your departed father helped build, race and raise you on. And that a hurricane-strength storm in the Pacific sent you briefly overboard with thoughts of him and his own perils swimming through your creative brain.
 Imagine then that you found romance during that storm, romance with a familiar New Zealander who had been part of the expedition that had ended with your father's murder.
 No imagination is required if you are Sarah-Jane Blake, the 26-year-old daughter of the champion New Zealand yachtsman Sir Peter Blake. Her world has been rocked by this intricate chain of events in the last few months. 
 There have been more than a few tears along with the strong sense that bridges, long left alone, are now being crossed, reconnecting her to childhood, to Sir Peter and to New Zealand, the country where his legacy still has considerable resonance, even eight years after he was murdered by pirates in the Amazon during a research trip.
 ''It's healing,'' Blake said in a telephone interview this week. ''I definitely haven't cried properly for a while, and I've started crying more, which I think is a good thing. Since my dad died, I've really been blocking everything out. It's been very cathartic, but sometimes it gets a bit too much, and sometimes I get fed up talking about boats.''
 Blake laughed quietly as if she were happy to have lightened the reflective mood. Though she sails and will race in her first Sydney-Hobart race on Saturday, she is not a sailor by profession. She is a trained artist, most interested in devising performances in natural landscapes. She was raised and educated primarily in Britain, which was her mother's country and which served as an anchor for the Blake family as Sir Peter kept weighing his and circumnavigating the globe in Whitbread races or directing New Zealand's successful assault on the America's Cup.
 ''I remember him calling from the middle of the ocean on a satellite phone when he was doing the round-the-world races, and I didn't really think much about it, really,'' Blake said. ''It was just a normal thing, and it's only now I'm starting to think about what he did really and that it was pretty great.''
 Though Blake expresses no desire to follow her father's lead and make her living from offshore or inshore racing, she clearly shares his sense of adventure. A year after his death, she trekked across Mongolia, and last year, with the recession making work difficult to find in London and her wanderlust nagging at her, she left for Nepal. She worked in Katmandu, first in an orphanage and then an international school. She directed a production of ''Hamlet,'' which, she said, ''was rather strange in Katmandu.''
 She later traveled to India, Thailand and Cambodia, where she found herself near the Laotian border preparing for another trek when she received a phone call from a production company working on a documentary film on her father for a permanent exhibition about him in the new wing of the Maritime Museum in Auckland, New Zealand.
 The company wanted her to go to Auckland for an interview. ''I was going to run out of money, so I said, brilliant, and jumped at the chance,'' she said. ''They flew me out there.''
 Once in Auckland, she also helped to create the exhibition. She then found herself volunteering to race in June from Auckland to the Pacific port of Noumea on Lion New Zealand, the refurbished 78-foot maxi on which her father won line honors in the Sydney-Hobart in 1984 before using it in the Whitbread.
 Blake had celebrated her second birthday on board when her parents sailed from New Zealand to England. It was an extended journey that included extended rough weather as well as stops at Easter Island and the Galapagos, where she distinctly remembers seeing a tortoise.
 Back on Lion New Zealand as an adult on her way back from Noumea, she came face to face with greater danger in 40-foot seas and 75-knot winds. ''Some monster stuff,'' she said. ''It knocked down Lion twice, and it's a big boat to knock down. It was nearly getting into a survival situation. I was pretty terrified at times.''
 Swept overboard by a wave while tethered to the deck, she was briefly submerged (''About 10 seconds, but it felt a lot longer,'' she said) before being thrown back on board. She said the experience got her thinking about all that her father had lived through during storms past, and she even sensed that in some way he -- who had a hand in building Lion -- was protecting her.
 ''You could feel it,'' she said. ''And that's why I'm really not scared to go out and do the Sydney-Hobart.''
 This is the 25th anniversary of Lion's victory, and Blake will be on board with Conrad Gundry and Sam Cray, who are also children of 1984 crew members. The Lion New Zealand skipper, Alistair Moore, acknowledges that it is more a commemorative endeavor than a competitive one, but it has taken on an additional layer of meaning with Moore and Blake now romantically involved.
 ''That race in Noumea, it all just sort of settled into place and made sense,'' Moore said.
 Blake said: ''Quite strange but good. I've known him since I was 16, and he worked for my father since he was 16 or 17.''
 Moore spent nearly two years as part of the team Sir Peter created for his environmental explorations on the yacht Seamaster. He was not on board when river bandits attacked in December 2001, shooting and killing Blake in the gun battle that followed. Moore's father, filling in for his son on board, was wounded in the raid, and Moore, who was on a research mission for Blake elsewhere in the Amazon basin, said he blamed himself for years for not being there to help.
 Even now, he said, hardly a day goes by that he does not think about the consequences of the decisions that were made. But with Lion New Zealand now serving primarily as a floating educational platform for youth, including at-risk youth, Moore said he felt that he was being true to the spirit of his role model.
 ''I was an 8-year-old boy who would fanatically draw pictures of this yacht in every textbook I owned,'' Moore said. ''Peter was my hero, absolute hero, and it's quite emotional sometimes, because I know he would be happy with what we're doing, because it's giving something back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sarah-Jane Blake, top, will sail in her first Sydney-Hobart race. Her father, Sir Peter Blake, with his children in 1994. He was killed in 2001. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL FORSTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAILING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BOAT RACING (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOBART, AUSTRALIA (68%) NEW ZEALAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MONGOLIA (75%); CAMBODIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



714 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: New Zealand Wineries Are Fighting for Reputations and Premium Prices

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA HARNEY

DATELINE: BLENHEIM, New Zealand 

 BODY:
Twenty-five years ago, New Zealand was not even a blip on most wine lovers' radars. Then came Cloudy Bay, a crisp, fruity wine with an elegant label that turned New Zealand sauvignon blanc into a global brand.
 This fall, the chief winemaker behind Cloudy Bay's success began releasing the first vintage under his own label. Greywacke, named after a hard, gray sandstone common in New Zealand, is the fruit of Kevin Judd's ambition to broaden the country's reputation beyond the now-ubiquitous Marlborough sauvignon blanc. 
 The introduction of the label comes at a time of reckoning for New Zealand's wineries, which are fighting to preserve their reputation as premium wine producers, even as bumper harvests and thrifty drinkers pull them in the opposite direction.
 For many years after Mr. Judd made Marlborough famous, the world could not get enough New Zealand sauvignon blanc. In its popularity, everyone from garlic farmers to French luxury brands saw opportunity. The amount of New Zealand land given over to vineyards swelled from 7,410 hectares, or 18,310 acres, in 1997 to an estimated 31,057 hectares as of June.
 In 1990, Veuve Clicquot, part of LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, bought a controlling stake in Cloudy Bay in the Marlborough area at the north end of New Zealand's South Island. Pernod Ricard, owner of Kahlua coffee liqueur and Malibu rum, acquired Montana, another large New Zealand winemaker. Kirin, the Japanese beverage company, controls Wither Hills, a well-known winery. Constellation Brands, an American wine, beer and spirits group, owns Monkey Bay. 
 Export markets, led by Australia, Britain and the United States, quaffed 55 percent of the country's 205 million liter, or 54 million gallon, vintage in the year that ended in June. About 81 percent of the exports were sauvignon blanc.
 But last year, just as the global economy went into a tailspin, nature played a cruel joke on New Zealand vintners. While frosts had limited the country's crop in previous years, it produced a record harvest in 2008 -- 39 percent larger than the year before. The harvest this year was another bumper crop, equivalent in size to that of 2008. 
 New Zealand winemakers bottled the best of the vintage under their own labels, poured some into new labels and sold some to bulk wine brokers. Bulk wine exports, which accounted for less than 5 percent of export volume in the past, made up 20 percent of New Zealand's wine exports in the year ended in June.
 Predictably, prices have plummeted. Wine that three years ago sold in bulk for 6 New Zealand dollars, or $4.36, a liter now goes for 2.50 New Zealand dollars and occasionally even less, according to industry executives. New Zealand's wine regions are littered with ''for sale'' signs.
 Nor have the wine critics been kind. ''We've seen a lot of 'me-too' wine,'' said Michael Cooper, a prominent New Zealand wine writer. ''You could probably take half of Marlborough sauvignon blancs, and if they disappeared, they wouldn't leave a trace because they were identical to the wine next to them.'' In this environment, retailers began to question Cloudy Bay's substantial price premium, he said.
 New Zealand is desperate to avoid the fate of neighboring Australia. A surge in investment drove that country's wine exports up to 786 million liters in 2006-7, from 151 million liters in 1996-97, but bulk sales to supermarkets have lowered both prices and cachet. Exports slipped to 750 million liters in 2008-9. 
 ''We can't compete and remain viable if we are producing bulk wine,'' said Marcus Pickens, marketing manager for an industry association, Wine Marlborough. New Zealand's smaller size, high labor costs and cool climate make it harder for the country to sustain the big yields that volume production requires, he added.
 Greywacke, then, could be seen as Mr. Judd's attempt to keep New Zealand wine small but beautiful. Greywacke (pronounced ''gray-WACK-ee'') is a joint effort of Mr. Judd; Ivan Sutherland, the former Cloudy Bay viticulturist; and James Healy, a winemaker from the same label. In October, Greywacke's first sauvignon blanc went on sale in New Zealand, Australia and Britain. 
 The winery will offer a pinot gris, a riesling and a late-harvest gewurztraminer in mid-2010, and a pinot noir, another sauvignon blanc and a chardonnay early in 2011. Mr. Judd produced 6,000 cases of sauvignon blanc in his first year, of which 80 percent was exported. By comparison, Hunter's Wines, another Marlborough winemaker, makes about 60,000 cases of wine every year.
 ''I'm a firm believer in Marlborough's capability of making chardonnay and making pinot noir,'' he said. The current dilemma with sauvignon blancs is ''just a situation of oversupply. People are saying it's going to kill the industry. It's not going to kill the industry.'' 
 After the big harvest last year, New Zealand Winegrowers, another industry association, advised producers to leave more fruit on the ground -- a strategy they insist has worked well. Despite an increase in the number of wineries and continued expansion of the amount of land devoted to wine production, the average yield fell to 9.2 tons a hectare, from 9.7 tons. 
 Without this approach, the association estimated that the country might have produced 400,000 tons of grapes, instead of the 285,000 tons it produced the year before. Wine drinkers' thriftiness in the global economic slowdown is helping drain the surplus 2008 sauvignon blanc: In the year that ended in June, New Zealand's wine exports rose 27 percent by volume, to 112.6 million liters, but only 24 percent by value, to 992 million New Zealand dollars.
 The association is expanding promotional activities abroad, focusing on its main markets in Australia, Britain and the United States, while looking to build market share in Asia. This year, the association held a series of meetings around the country, urging grape growers to control yields. 
 As in any agricultural sector, the industry can only do so much to control its fate. The rest is in nature's hands. 
 Peter Yealands, owner of New Zealand's largest privately owned vineyard, said a recent spell of cold, wet weather could cut the yield of the coming harvest by half. Growers, Mr. Yealands said, are hoping that a bad frost will affect everyone's crop -- except their own.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Yarrum Vineyard in Marlborough provided some of the grapes used to produce Greywacke's first release of sauvignon blanc. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN JUDD)
Before striking out on his own this year, Kevin Judd, right, put New Zealand on the wine map as chief winemaker for Cloudy Bay. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLOUDY BAY
 KEVIN JUDD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (92%); WINERIES (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); EXPORT PRICES (86%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); BEER & ALE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (67%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (94%); PERNOD RICARD SA (83%); VEUVE CLICQUOT PONSARDIN SA (55%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (54%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (94%); LVMH (BIT) (94%); RI (PAR) (83%); STZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (94%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (94%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (54%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (54%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ZEALAND (99%); UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



715 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Recession? Teenagers Get It

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
After a year of observing their parents pinch pennies and fret about the economy, the nation's teenagers may be coming to grips with reality. 
 Sales are down sharply in recent months at nearly every major retail chain catering to teenagers, and interviews with teenagers suggest that the reasons go beyond their own difficulty finding part-time jobs.
 ''I think my sister and I, throughout this year we've kind of lost an interest in getting gifts and things like that,'' said Morgan Porpora, 16, who in the past had a list of things she wanted for Christmas. ''I guess we've noticed the economy and we just kind of even feel bad I guess asking for a lot.''
 Last month, stores that specialize in clothing and accessories for teenagers were the worst-performing sector in all of retailing, posting a 7.8 percent year-over-year sales decline, according to Thomson Reuters. 
 Sales at stores open at least a year, a measure of retail health known as same-store sales, tumbled by double digits in November at Abercrombie & Fitch, Hot Topic and American Apparel. Same-store sales also declined at Zumiez, Wet Seal and American Eagle Outfitters.
 Teenagers' growing mindfulness about money is influenced, of course, by the way their parents are cutting back, and by a record-high teenage unemployment rate. But the biggest factor, according to the teenagers themselves, is that they have come to understand the social moment. 
 ''As me and my brothers get older and we realize the implications of the recession,'' said Sarah Berger, 16, ''we just kind of value presents and gifts less.''
 Ms. Berger was among more than a dozen teenagers talking about shopping and spending last week at a roundtable in Armonk, N.Y. Similar gatherings have taken place across the country, all of them organized and moderated by John D. Morris, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets who uses the sessions to glean insights about the health of the teenage retailing market. A reporter asked to attend the New York meeting, which took place one night around a dining room table in the home of David Taitz, 16. 
 While a couple of students said they felt slightly more optimistic this year, mainly because their parents still had jobs, most said thrift was the reigning household theme. Teenagers who celebrate Hanukkah, for instance, said they received one gift instead of presents on each of the holiday's eight nights. Additionally, many parents had spoken with their children ahead of Christmas to lower expectations.
 ''I know my mom was saying that we're going to spend a little bit less this year,'' said Katharine LaMantia, 16. ''We're each getting either one big gift or a couple of smaller gifts. And I'm not going to buy as many gifts for my friends because we're trying to spend less than we did last year.''
 Mr. Morris, who has led several retailing discussions with teenagers, said that unlike last holiday season, when the economic crisis was still new, teenagers now understood that nearly everyone was making sacrifices. ''What we're hearing more and more is that these teens are empathizing with their parents,'' he said. ''They're more concerned.''
 No major retailing chain has felt the effects of that concern as much as Abercrombie & Fitch, the pricey, preppy clothing purveyor that has turned in 19 consecutive months of same-store sales declines. Last month, its sales sank 17 percent. 
 Rachel Kaplan, 16, said the chain was once a top trendy destination. ''Now I walk in there, it's empty,'' she said. ''I think it's because they charge $80 for a polo shirt.''
 While Abercrombie is suffering, Aeropostale, the value-priced clothing chain for teenagers, has fared well in this economy, posting record monthly sales figures. Last month, same-store sales rose 7 percent. 
 ''I don't mind it because it's kind of the same thing as Abercrombie and Hollister but a little cheaper,'' said Bryan Dunn, 17, ''so you're not spending like $40 for a T-shirt.''
 The students want low prices, but at the same time, they seem to be discovering the relationship between price and quality. ''If a shirt costs $10 but then rips every month or so, that's a lot of T-shirts,'' Ms. Kaplan said. ''It adds up. Whereas if you buy a shirt that costs like $30 but it doesn't rip, you can have it for as long as you want to wear it.''
 That sentiment may explain why some teenagers are gravitating to the Gap, which is trying to pull off a turnaround. November same-store sales at Gap were unchanged from the same month last year, when they fell 10 percent. That is a better performance than most of Gap's competitors.
 ''That's your confirmation that teens are much more practical-minded,'' said Mr. Morris, the BMO analyst. ''You know you can just go in and get basic things and that the price is right. That to me is the confirmation that for them it's not all about status labels and chasing trends. It's more about enduring quality.''
 The teenagers said they were also shopping more at TJ Maxx, which sells designer brands at affordable prices. As it turns out, TJX Companies, which owns TJ Maxx and Marshalls, just had its best quarter ever. The chain reported an 8 percent same-store sales increase in November, and retailing analysts said it was taking market share from teenage clothing stores. 
 Plenty of teenagers shop with money from their parents, yet many at the roundtable also had jobs baby-sitting, tutoring, delivering food from local restaurants and refereeing local sports games. Most were able to find some kind of part-time work, though Michelle Cioffoletti, 16, said it was more difficult these days.
 ''I think it's kind of competitive because more people are losing their jobs,'' she said, ''so even the job that used to be easy to get for a teenager now is being filled by someone who got laid off.''
 The teenage unemployment rate is at a record high, more than 26 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, compared to an overall unemployment rate of 10 percent. One reason is that retailers hired fewer seasonal employees, which analysts at Standard & Poor's Equity Research said had hurt chains that sell to teenagers. 
 Those statistics and other uninspiring economic reports are inescapable even for teenagers whose parents do not tend to discuss finances around the dinner table. The teenagers said they could see the impact that news reports about the economy had on their parents.
 ''It's nothing you can run away from,'' Ms. Cioffoletti said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In a roundtable discussion in Armonk, N.Y., last week, teenagers told a market analyst that they understood it was a time for general sacrifice. (B1)
John D. Morris, top right, a marketing analyst, moderated a discussion among teenagers of the economic situation. Among the participants who said they were being more value-conscious were Rachel Kaplan, top left
Katharine LaMantia, above left
 and Sarah Berger, above right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RECESSION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TEENS MARKET (78%); PARENTS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (68%); HANUKKAH (60%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (56%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); AEO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



716 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Small Publisher Finds Its Mission In Translation

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: ROCHESTER 

 BODY:
The publishing industry is in a tailspin; translated works account for, at best, 3 percent of the American book market; and budgets for higher education are shrinking. But none of this seems to deter Open Letter Books, a small, year-old press here affiliated with the University of Rochester that publishes nothing but literature in translation.
 ''There's a set of readers out there that's very interested in translations and international literature and is not getting what it wants,'' said Chad W. Post, Open Letter's director. ''So we believe our business model can work. American literature has a lot of great works. But English-speaking readers don't have full access to voices and viewpoints from around the world, and we're trying to rectify that.'' 
 Though none of Open Letter's 16 titles has yet sold more than 3,000 copies, its efforts have quickly attracted attention and critical praise. Open Letter books, including the recently published ''Season of Ash,'' by the Mexican novelist Jorge Volpi, have appeared on Best of 2009 lists; and Amazon.com, which has begun an effort to bring more international writers to the attention of American readers, recently awarded Open Letter a $20,000 grant to support publication of ''The Wall in My Head,'' an anthology by East European writers about the collapse of Communism there.
 The world of American publishers specializing in translation is small, and each house has adopted a slightly different strategy to stay afloat. Archipelago Books has gone the nonprofit route and solicits tax-deductible contributions; Europa Editions is the extension of an Italian house and publishes only trade paperbacks; and the Dalkey Archive Press, where Mr. Post, 34, worked until coming here, is both a nonprofit entity and, like Open Letter, tied to an academic institution, the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana.
 ''If you're publishing authors whose names aren't known, you have to give readers a reason to pick up a book and to get excited about your press,'' Martin Riker, associate director of Dalkey, said. ''There's a branding going on, and Chad is definitely trying that.'' 
 Open Letter published its first title, a collection of essays by the Croatian novelist Dubravka Ugresic called ''Nobody's Home,'' in September 2008, just as the economic crisis was erupting. But more than a year earlier, to herald the book's arrival and attract potential readers, Open Letter had begun a blog called Three Percent (rochester.edu/threepercent), a mordant reference to the literary ghetto to which translation is consigned
 Though it might have initially been conceived as a marketing device, Three Percent has turned into a lively clearing house for everything related to literature in translation, and logs more than two million page views a year, with obvious commercial benefits for Open Letter. Readers can post their own reviews and learn what foreign publishing houses are up to, and translators can discuss their craft and check to see which works are available and which have already been snatched up by colleagues. 
 ''It's very difficult in the present economic climate for a publishing house to be totally dependent on university funding, and in the press, editors have less space for reviews and translations,'' said Peter Bush, vice president of the International Federation of Translators, who is translating a collection of short stories from Catalan for Open Letter. ''But there are readers out there communicating with each other about translation, and through Three Percent, Open Letter is plugged into the new media and is using that space to find new readers and sell their books.''
 A seven-member selection committee that includes University of Rochester faculty chooses the titles Open Letter publishes. While members of that group say they would not be averse to picking a book that could become a best seller -- the Swedish novelist Stieg Larsson's trilogy of crime novels having shown once again that American readers will embrace certain books not written in English -- they say that is not their principal goal.
 ''We want the openness in the name Open Letter to register,'' said Joanna Scott, a professor of English here who is the author of nine novels. ''What we are looking for is excellent work, from any language, eclectic modern fiction that is overlooked. Commerce does not enter the discussions; I wouldn't know a commercial book if I saw one.'' 
 To increase Open Letter's reach, Mr. Post talks about finding ways to tap into specialized audiences, like the people who go to movie theaters known for showing foreign films. One thing he has already done is to ensure that all of Open Letter's books have the same distinctively lean, uncluttered design, almost as if he were running a specialty jazz label like Blue Note or Impulse!, which built a loyal cadre of customers through a combination of a signature look and sound. 
 ''They've been really smart in creating immensely eye-catching books that readers are going to pick up when they see them in a store window or on a friend's bookshelf, just because they are so interesting-looking,'' said Paul Yamazaki, lead buyer at City Lights in San Francisco. ''Their books really stand out. They're creating a house identity with visual cues, and with all the choices that readers have these days, that helps, especially when most of what you're doing is introducing writers new to Americans.'' 
 In line with that concept, Open Letter, like Archipelago Books, also offers a subscription service. For $100 a year (or $60 for six months), a reader can receive each of the books that Open Letter publishes during that time: that works out to $10 a title, with shipping costs within the United States thrown in as a bonus. 
 ''We have to be different, and subscriptions are a part of that,'' Mr. Post said. ''We want to create the idea that we publish a certain kind of book, and that you can trust in us.''
 An additional element of Open Letter's branding effort is a parallel Literary Translation Studies program at the University of Rochester, which now offers an undergraduate certificate in that field and will soon expand to include a master's degree. Students enrolled in the program, who speak languages as diverse as Russian and Japanese, not only translate works of fiction for course credit, but also often serve internships at Open Letter, where some read and report on works that might interest the publisher.
 ''I'd never have known anything about any of this had I not taken this course and done the internship,'' said Lillian Miller, a 21-year-old senior, who has spent time in Siberia. ''But now I'm considering publishing as a career.'' 
 University officials said they were pleased at the way the press had raised the institution's profile, both in the academic world and locally, and talk of expanding its efforts. Last year Open Letter organized a joint reading here by Salman Rushdie and Umberto Eco, which was also sponsored by the PEN World Voices Festival, the festival's first event held outside New York City.
 ''Before we signed off initially, we looked at the potential costs and benefits and decided we could make this a mecca for the academic study of translation, as well as publication,'' said Joel Seligman, the president of the University of Rochester. ''Certainly we have no anxieties to date. To continue to be able to publish quality books, and conceivably more of them over time, is a most exciting prospect.'' 
 Next year Open Letter plans to broaden its mission and publish its first collection of poetry. Translators, as might be expected, are especially delighted to see the press's emergence and are flocking to Open Letter with ideas for new and adventurous projects. 
 ''Open Letter has become important all out of proportion because it is willing to take a chance on work in languages that are not well known in the United States, like Icelandic or Lithuanian,'' said Clifford Landers, who has translated the Brazilian writer Rubem Fonseca's collection ''The Taker and Other Stories'' for Open Letter and hopes to do more. ''Commercial publishing houses have become infected with the jackpot mentality. But Open Letter creates an outlet for works that are not expected to have broad popular appeal but nonetheless are of important value in a literary sense.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chad W. Post, the director of Open Letter Books, an affiliate of the University of Rochester that has published 16 titles so far.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (92%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (63%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



717 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: New Year's Resolution: Get a Deal on a Gym Membership

BYLINE: By WALECIA KONRAD

 BODY:
FIFTY percent off the usual $250 initiation fee at Crunch. One week free at Curves. Zero enrollment fee and no payment due until Feb. 1 at New York Sports. 
 It's New Year's resolution time again, and the health and fitness clubs here in New York and throughout the country are out in full force. 
 This time of year you can count on heavy promotions. Clubs depend on the December-January rush for the bulk of their memberships. But this year the frenzy has been ratcheted up a notch as clubs try to make up for the recession, which caused many corporate sponsorships to evaporate and many individual members to drop out or cut way back on costly extras like personal training and massage. 
 But lean times for the fitness clubs are good news for consumers. 
 ''Join in December and you'll get the best deals -- across the board,'' says Howard Brodsky, chief executive of New York Health & Racquet Club. ''Health clubs are businesses just like any other retail business. They have numbers they need to hit.''
 And here is more good news: Over the last decade or so the health club industry has cleaned up many of its questionable practices. Years ago, health and fitness clubs routinely made the Federal Trade Commission's list of the top 10 sources of consumer complaints about deceptive sales practices, misleading contracts and lack of full disclosure. 
 Not anymore. The industry was forced to change after a wave of bad publicity, including a few widely reported lawsuits, as well as consolidation among the big players. 
 ''Now, disclosures are better, and people are doing a better job reading contracts,'' said Lois Greisman, associate director of marketing practices at the F.T.C., which has some consumer tips on its Web site about health clubs. 
 Of course, that's not to say schemes don't still exist, warns Ms. Greisman. You still need to shop carefully. 
 What's more, a health club is usually a big financial commitment, even if you get a good deal. Members often get frustrated when they lose interest and stop going. They wonder why they're paying each month for something they don't really use, says Ms. Greisman. That's why it's important to shop for a price that makes sense for you. 
 So here are some things to keep in mind to find the best health club deal and avoid disappointment. 
 DOES 'FREE' MEAN FREE? ''Few words are more enticing than free,'' said Ms. Greisman. But there can be a catch. 
 Sometimes a free month of membership comes with what's known as a negative option. That means that the onus is on you to cancel at the end of the month or you will start to get billed for continued membership. You can end up with a month or two of charges you didn't expect and don't want.
 If a club is offering a free month or other free trial, make sure you don't have to give your credit card or bank information. And always read the terms of the agreement carefully. 
 NEGOTIATE Even at the big chains, individual managers at various locations have room to negotiate. And the pressure is on at year-end for them to increase membership. You can use that to your advantage by asking for more. If you've found a club you like but you saw a better promotion elsewhere -- maybe a lower initiation fee, or lower monthly dues -- ask the manager to match that price. 
 ''There is some flexibility,'' said Mr. Brodsky of New York Health & Racquet Club.
 CHECK FOR CROWDS You need to visit the club during the times you're most likely to use it to see how crowded it is. (And then expect more people to flock in come January, after the big membership push is complete.) Ask the manager for a trial membership so you can really get a feel for the place. 
 KNOW THE TERMS What exactly do you have access to? Can you work out at any location, or just a specific venue? (If you're limited to only one location, are you getting a discount?) 
 Most important, what is the cancellation policy? Can you bow out if you have to move or you are injured? Can you stop paying if you stop using? 
 ''This is one of the most important parts of the contract and should be spelled out clearly,'' Ms. Greisman said. 
 TAKE A BREATHER In exchange for price cuts, sales staff will often pressure you to sign up on the spot. Don't do it, advises the F.T.C. Web site. 
 Go home, think about it. Reread the contract. Check out the competition. 
 Call your Better Business Bureau and your state attorney general's office and ask if they have received complaints about the club you are considering. Then search the specific location on the Internet and see if any customers have written complaints. 
 What's more, Mr. Brodsky says, be leery of clubs -- especially newly established ones -- that push you to pay the entire year's membership up front. That could be a sign the club is in less-than-stellar financial health. 
 Only when you are confident you're getting a good deal should you go ahead and sign the contract. 
 Have a good workout. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Health and Racquet Club draws a crowd for its noon spinning classes. Many gyms are offering discounts in December and January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FITNESS CENTERS (93%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (91%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK HEALTH & RACQUET CLUB INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (69%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



718 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Theme Park Developers Turn Their Attention to Asia, Where Business Is Growing

BYLINE: By SONIA KOLESNIKOV-JESSOP

DATELINE: SINGAPORE 

 BODY:
The global downturn put some United States theme parks into bankruptcy and upended grand plans for new ones in the Middle East. But in Asia, a development boomlet is under way as operators race to open parks and add attractions to draw in the region's growing middle class. 
 A Universal Studios park is set to open early next year in Singapore at Resorts World at Sentosa, a sprawling development that includes a casino. Over the border in Malaysia, ground has just been broken on the first Legoland in Asia, scheduled to open in 2012. 
 In Hong Kong, the roughly $750 million redevelopment of Ocean Park is to be completed in 2013, while Hong Kong Disneyland Resort recently began a $465 million expansion project that is to add three areas by 2014. And last month, Disney finally won approval from the Chinese government to build a theme park in Shanghai; it is expected to open in five to six years.
 ''Even with the economic hardship the world has been feeling, there is still stability in this part of the world, and people are still looking to do things that are out of the ordinary,'' said Tom Mehrmann, chief executive of Ocean Park in Hong Kong.
 Overall attendance at the world's top 25 theme parks has declined over the last couple of years, according to a report by Economic Research Associates, a consulting firm, and the Themed Entertainment Association, an international industry association. But visits to the 10 most-visited Asia-Pacific parks have continued to increase, albeit at a slow pace. With this upward trend expected to accelerate, developers are focusing on the region. 
 The industry anticipates solid growth in Asia, even though over the last six years, the number of what Mr. Mehrmann called world-class parks in the region has risen to more than 35, from about 15. ''What it says is that the market is growing, the middle class is growing, discretionary time and money is growing,'' he said.
 Ocean Park had a record 5.03 million visitors in the fiscal year that ended in June 2008 and registered a small drop to 4.8 million in its fiscal 2009. But Mr. Mehrmann said that attendance had started to rebound in August.
 Recent signals from big industry players point to a bleak near-term picture worldwide. Revenue at Walt Disney's parks and resorts dropped 7 percent, to $10.6 billion, in the fiscal year ended in September. Universal Studios' theme parks, which General Electric sold along with NBC Universal to Comcast, have also been struggling this year, though according to G.E., the company has been able to offset the attendance declines partly with cost-cutting. 
 Meanwhile, Six Flags, which owns 20 amusement parks, mainly in the United States, filed for bankruptcy protection in June, burdened by high debt and declining attendance. It is now working on a restructuring plan with creditors. Dubailand, which was to include Paramount, Marvel and DreamWorks Animation theme parks among others, is now only a distant dream.
 But some investors see opportunities in the downturn. Apollo Global Management said last week that it would acquire the theme park operator Cedar Fair in a deal worth about $2.4 billion, including assumed debt. Cedar Fair's properties include Cedar Point in Ohio, Canada's Wonderland near Toronto, Dorney Park in Pennsylvania and Knott's Berry Farm and Great America in Southern California. Cedar Fair said that attendance had dropped by 1.2 million visitors during the first three quarters.
 The deal follows an agreement in October by the Blackstone Group to buy Anheuser-Busch Inbev's 10 theme parks in the United States for $2.7 billion, including the SeaWorld parks in Orlando and San Diego and Busch Gardens in Tampa, Fla., three of the most-visited theme parks in the world. Blackstone already has a majority stake in the Merlin Entertainment Group -- which owns Legoland, among other parks -- and the Anheuser-Busch assets will make the private equity firm the second-largest company in the theme park business, after Disney. 
 John Ussher, general manager of Legoland development at Merlin, said that his company wanted to introduce the brand across the globe. ''We've had a good year, we've weathered the storm well throughout our parks in Europe and the United States,'' he said, while declining to provide attendance numbers. ''We feel very strongly about the potential of the new park in Malaysia. The region has terrific potential.'' 
 The company is also working on a Dubai Legoland, although Mr. Ussher said the project had been delayed and the new expected opening date was 2015. He said Legoland was also looking for sites in South Korea and Japan and would be interested in developing a park in China.
 The arrival of new competitors in Asia has put pressure on existing players in the region. Ocean Park opened two major new attractions this year: Amazing Asian Animals, an exhibit spanning 270,000 square feet, and Ocean Express, a 0.8-mile train ride that simulates traveling in a submarine. Next year the park will open Aqua City, an ocean-themed area with a new aquarium complex.
 Mr. Mehrmann said the redevelopment and expansion of his park were essential to keeping it relevant, especially as China added a string of regional theme parks. Chinese news media recently reported that an ''Andersen's Fairy Park,'' based on the fairy tales of Hans Christian Andersen, would open in Shanghai to coincide with the 2010 World Expo.
 Japan, with its aging population and stagnating economy, may be one exception to the relatively rosy outlook for Asian theme parks. Attendance at most Japanese parks was flat or down in 2008, with the exception of Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo Disney Sea, according to the research report. Admissions at Universal Studios Japan in Osaka decreased by 5.8 percent, to 8.1 million, during the year that ended in March. USJ, the operator of the park, was sold for $1.12 billion to a consortium led by Goldman Sachs Group this year. 
 Gabriel Chan, an Asia gambling research analyst at Credit Suisse, said he doubted the new theme parks would cannibalize one another, as they all had differences in terms of rides. For example Universal Studios Singapore will have the world's only ''Madagascar'' attraction, and will also bring to life the first ''Far Far Away'' castle based on the Shrek movie franchise. 
 One exception, Mr. Chan said, could be Hong Kong Disneyland. The Shanghai Disney park, he said could be a threat to Disney's Hong Kong property, ''given the fact that a lot of Disney's Hong Kong visitors are mainland Chinese.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A growing Asian middle class has increased the market for theme parks like Hong Kong Disneyland, left, and Ocean Park, another Hong Kong park. But theme parks elsewhere, including the United States and the Middle East, are feeling the global downturn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYRONE SIU/REUTERS
 KIN CHEUNG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); RESORTS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (70%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (70%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (70%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) ASIA (95%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); CHINA (92%); SINGAPORE (91%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



719 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAR WITHOUT BORDERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2178 words

HEADLINE: Torrent of Illicit Cash Flows Where the U.S. and Mexico Meet

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. and MARC LACEY; James C. McKinley Jr. reported from Laredo, and Marc Lacey from Mexico City, Ciudad Juarez and Culiacan, Mexico. Santiago Fourcade contributed reporting from Monterrey, Mexico, Elisabeth Malkin from Mexico City and Randal C. Archibold from Los Angeles.

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex. 

 BODY:
The streets of Laredo are awash in money, stacks of grimy bills tainted with cocaine residue, wrapped in plastic and stowed in secret compartments built into the trucks, buses and cars that flow south over the Mexican border daily like a motorized river. 
 Customs officials have discovered a host of ingenious hiding places, from $3 million secreted in the floor of a Mexican passenger bus to $1.6 million stuffed in duffel bags and balanced atop the heads of people wading across the Rio Grande to Mexico.
 At border crossings and airports alone, American customs officers seized $57.9 million in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, up 74 percent from the previous year. And once the money lands in Mexico, it is easily swept into a largely unregulated underground cash economy or laundered through seemingly legitimate businesses.
 As the United States has tightened bank regulations and clamped down on sophisticated money-laundering schemes in the past 35 years, more of the money from illicit drug sales is being smuggled across the border to Mexico the old-fashioned way, law enforcement officials say. 
 American officials say stopping the bulk cash shipments and scuttling money laundering are critical to crippling the cartels in Mexico, which have unleashed a wave of violence that has claimed more than 15,000 lives since President Felipe Calderon began cracking down on their operations in December 2006. 
 Law enforcement officials and business owners in Mexico say that the assault on the cartels has driven drug traffickers to branch out into an array of other money-making ventures, setting up businesses like spas and day care centers to launder drug proceeds or selling new products like pirated movies or pilfered oil.
 ''It's a natural evolution of criminal activity, just as with the mob in the 1950s,'' said John Feeley, the deputy chief of mission of the United States Embassy in Mexico City. ''They can't continue to work on one illegal product.''
 But Mexican authorities have yet to make much headway against money launderers, and customs officials say the cash they seize is still a trickle of what flows across the border. 
 Joint operations of customs, border patrol and immigration agents set up checkpoints on southbound lanes every day, fishing for money. Customs officials have assigned 25 more teams of dogs and handlers to the task in the past two years.
 Mr. Feeley said that he expected Mexico and the United States to devote even more energy to going after the cartels' profits. 
 Although United States authorities seized $138 million last year, that amount pales in comparison to the $18 billion to $39 billion a year the Drug Enforcement Agency estimates is being smuggled to Mexico every year.
 ''There is an enormous amount of money that is flowing undetected and uninterdicted,'' said John T. Morton, the assistant secretary for immigration and customs enforcement. ''We are trying to be a step ahead of the people moving the money. Unfortunately, right now we are a step behind.''
 On the border, federal authorities play a constant cat-and-mouse game with the traffickers. The dealers employ spies to spot checkpoints, while informants tip off agents about the movement of cash.
 Across the Border
 In Mexico, the cash is relatively easy to launder, law enforcement officials say. Though the Mexican government has tightened bank regulations in the last nine months, drug cartels still buy real estate, businesses, automobiles, jewels and other luxuries in cash without any reports of suspicious activity being made to the government. The sellers then make giant but legal cash deposits to the banks, and the money flows into the economy, Mexican government officials and experts on laundering said.
 ''When the money is already integrated into the economy it's very difficult to detect and the players there are not obligated to report it,'' said Ramon Garcia Gibson, a consultant to Mexican banks on money laundering.
 Nor is it a crime in Mexico to buy and sell dollars on the street. Thousands of informal money brokers exchange cash, and while they are not allowed to handle more than $10,000 a day per client, the rule is often ignored.
 The money launderers are still outrunning the Mexican authorities. Though the main agency in the finance ministry charged with tracking money laundering has tripled in size in the past two years, it remains weak and overwhelmed with thousands of reports of questionable activity, officials there say. In the past year, they have referred about 600 cases to prosecutors, but only 18 were presented to the courts.
 ''They just don't have the capacity yet to do the investigation and make it stick in court,'' said Shannon K. O'Neil, a Mexico analyst with the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. 
 No one knows precisely how much money is shipped across the border, but Mexican authorities say cash smuggled illegally into their country and then sent back to United States banks through Mexican financial institutions totals at least $10 billion a year.
 A good portion of that is pooled by foreign exchange businesses and then shipped back to United States banks in armored trucks, experts on money laundering said. Money is also smuggled out of Mexico to Colombia and other countries to pay cocaine producers.
 In September, the Mexican and United States authorities broke up a smuggling ring that had bought a chemical factory and was shipping $41 million from Mexico to Colombia. The cash, in $50 and $100 bills, was hidden in shipping containers holding an industrial chemical. 
 The cartels are also laundering money through such innocuous-sounding enterprises as a car wash in Guadalajara, the Perfect Silhouette spa in Mexico City, the Happy Child day care center in Culiacan, and the Biosport health club in Hermosillo, according to the Treasury Department, which has designated scores of such Mexican businesses as cartel operations.
 In Monterrey, in Mexico's north, a merchant explained how the Zetas, one of the country's most feared organized crime groups, turned his small market stall into a wholesaler of pirated products, including movies and CDs. The cartels now produce copies themselves by the hundreds of thousands and sell them under their own label; a unicorn is the Zetas' symbol.
 ''They tell you, 'This store belongs to us now,' '' said the jittery merchant, who insisted on anonymity to avoid the fury of his new bosses. The Zetas even installed closed-circuit cameras to track his sales.
 ''The Zetas pay me a wage,'' he said. ''It's much less than I used to make when I worked for myself, but these are people you do not say no to.''
 In June, Mexican federal authorities in Monterrey arrested 14 suspects accused of illegally copying movies and music and distributing them in Mexico. The ringleader, identified as Leon Ayala Romero, was dubbed the Zetas' piracy czar and was accused of sending about $20 million in proceeds to Heriberto Lazcano, the top Zeta commander. 
 The lines between legal and illegal businesses remain fuzzy. Last year, Saulo Reyes Gamboa, 37, a Mexican businessman and police official from Ciudad Juarez, was sentenced to eight years in an American prison for bribing an undercover federal agent in the United States to ship nearly 2,000 pounds of marijuana to El Paso. The American government seized nearly $20,000 in currency and a vehicle from Mr. Reyes but was unable to get access to most of his other Mexican-based businesses, including Subway franchises, a sushi restaurant and a radio station. 
 Cat and Mouse
 Drug cartels pay people to make money transfers through companies like Western Union, or simply deposit money in American bank accounts and withdraw it from ATMs in Mexico. Other schemes involve moving money to shell companies, which then buy durable goods like bicycles in the United States and ship them to South America. 
 In a new trend, some organized crime groups have taken to smuggling prepaid money cards rather than cash, law enforcement officials say. United States treasury officials are working to require prepaid cards loaded with more than $10,000 to fall under the same reporting requirements as cash. Right now, anybody can walk or drive across the border with the cards filled with more than $10,000, without breaking any laws. 
 In their continual war of attrition with smugglers, customs officers are using a panoply of new tools: hand-held meters that measure the density of objects, vans with X-ray equipment that scan cars headed to Mexico looking for hidden compartments. 
 But dogs specially trained to sniff out narcotics make the most discoveries. The dogs and their handlers also find money, since most of it has traces of narcotics embedded in its paper. Drugs and cash are often stored or transported in the same compartments. 
 There is an entire cottage industry devoted to building secret compartments in vehicles. Often the compartments will not open unless the driver takes a series of actions like pumping the brakes and turning on the dome light and the radio simultaneously. 
 Still, experts on money laundering are skeptical that the seizures, even on the order of more than $100 million a year, can put a dent in a business that counts its income in tens of billions of dollars. 
 ''The interdiction program is a waste of all the money we are pouring into it,'' said Fletcher N. Baldwin Jr., an expert at the University of Florida. ''We have the longest borders in the world with two other countries, and it's impossible to police those borders.'' 
 Federal officials acknowledge that they are hamstrung by the volume of traffic over the Mexican border, both legal and illegal. About 16,000 vehicles cross each way every day in Laredo alone, and customs officials say they do not have enough personnel to adequately police them. 
 Spies for smugglers easily locate checkpoints, federal agents say. ''We are always cognizant of spotters,'' said Gene Garza, the Laredo port director for Customs and Border Protection. ''You just have to work around it. It's actually a game we play.''
 The smugglers are adept players, keeping couriers in the dark about what they are carrying or the inner workings of the cartels. 
 In turn, the agents sometimes choose not to arrest the drivers, turning them loose and following in hopes of ensnaring people further up the chain of command, law enforcement officials said.
 A few drivers agree to become informants. If a seizure is not publicized, the drivers find themselves under tremendous pressure from their bosses to prove they did not steal the money, law enforcement officials say, helping sow discord within the cartels.
 ''When they lose the money, they cannot just call the guys who paid them the money and say 'Can you pay me again?' '' said one longtime Laredo detective, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''It just creates havoc.''
 Agents sometimes have their own troubles proving a driver was smuggling. On Jan. 8, Aristeo Cavelaris Castillo, 32, from the Mexican state of Coahuila, was waved into an inspection station on the Lincoln Juarez Bridge here.
 When a drug-sniffing dog became excited, the agents used an X-ray truck to scan his pickup and found $1.3 million in small bills hidden in compartments in the dashboard and the passenger cab.
 But Mr. Cavelaris claimed he had borrowed the truck from someone he barely knew, and had just used it to do some shopping. Prosecutors dropped the charges without giving a reason.
 Prosecutors and investigators declined to comment on specific cases, but said it was sometimes hard to prove the couriers knew the money was there. On the Southwest border, for instance, officers have arrested 95 people for bulk cash smuggling in the past year but have convicted only a third of those.
 ''We have to sometimes let these guys go because they didn't do anything illegal,'' said Stefan Cassella, a prosecutor with the Department of Justice.
 Smugglers often recruit drivers at truck stops to move cash, and keep them ignorant of the details, defense lawyers in Laredo said. In February, Jose Eduardo Martinez from Nuevo Laredo, just across the border, was caught with $930,000 in a suitcase thrown in the sleeping area of his tractor trailer.
 Christina Flores, a lawyer for Mr. Martinez, said he had been approached at a gas station and had been asked to carry the suitcase, with a payment promised after the trip. The smugglers planned to follow his truck in a separate car, she said. 
 ''He accepted the proposition,'' Ms. Flores said of her client, who pleaded guilty to bulk cash smuggling. ''He had a big mortgage and credit card debt.''
 Yet even when couriers plead guilty, they are usually unable to help investigators learn more about how the money laundering or cartels work. 
 ''A lot of these cases, we find that even with the guys who do cooperate, they don't know anything,'' Mr. Morton said. ''These people are fodder in a larger war.'' 
 War Without Borders: This series examines the impact of Mexican drug cartels on both sides of the border 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AN OVERWHELMED EFFORT: Mexican soldiers searched a vehicle in Culiacan this month. As the United States has clamped down on money laundering, more cash from drug sales is being smuggled south.
MONEY GOES UNDERGROUND: Soldiers in Culiacan patrol the streets, but money is fairly easy to launder in Mexico, often channeled through seemingly legitimate businesses.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 BATTLING AN ILLICIT CASH FLOW: American border and customs officials shared interdiction successes in Laredo, where 32,000 vehicles a day cross.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A12) MAP(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); CASH FLOW (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (88%); CARTELS (88%); COCAINE (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); BANKING LAW (68%); DOGS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAREDO, TX, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



720 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Earth-Friendly Elements, Mined Destructively

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: GUYUN VILLAGE, China 

 BODY:
Some of the greenest technologies of the age, from electric cars to efficient light bulbs to very large wind turbines, are made possible by an unusual group of elements called rare earths. The world's dependence on these substances is rising fast.
 Just one problem: These elements come almost entirely from China, from some of the most environmentally damaging mines in the country, in an industry dominated by criminal gangs.
 Western capitals have suddenly grown worried over China's near monopoly, which gives it a potential stranglehold on technologies of the future. 
 In Washington, Congress is fretting about the United States military's dependence on Chinese rare earths, and has just ordered a study of potential alternatives. 
 Here in Guyun Village, a small community in southeastern China fringed by lush bamboo groves and banana trees, the environmental damage can be seen in the red-brown scars of barren clay that run down narrow valleys and the dead lands below, where emerald rice fields once grew.
 Miners scrape off the topsoil and shovel golden-flecked clay into dirt pits, using acids to extract the rare earths. The acids ultimately wash into streams and rivers, destroying rice paddies and fish farms and tainting water supplies.
 On a recent rainy afternoon, Zeng Guohui, a 41-year-old laborer, walked to an abandoned mine where he used to shovel ore, and pointed out still-barren expanses of dirt and mud. The mine exhausted the local deposit of heavy rare earths in three years, but a decade after the mine closed, no one has tried to revive the downstream rice fields.
 Small mines producing heavy rare earths like dysprosium and terbium still operate on nearby hills. ''There are constant protests because it damages the farmland -- people are always demanding compensation,'' Mr. Zeng said.
 ''In many places, the mining is abused,'' said Wang Caifeng, the top rare-earths industry regulator at the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology in China.
 ''This has caused great harm to the ecology and environment.''
 There are 17 rare-earth elements -- some of which, despite the name, are not particularly rare -- but two heavy rare earths, dysprosium and terbium, are in especially short supply, mainly because they have emerged as the miracle ingredients of green energy products. Tiny quantities of dysprosium can make magnets in electric motors lighter by 90 percent, while terbium can help cut the electricity usage of lights by 80 percent. Dysprosium prices have climbed nearly sevenfold since 2003, to $53 a pound. Terbium prices quadrupled from 2003 to 2008, peaking at $407 a pound, before slumping in the global economic crisis to $205 a pound.
 China mines more than 99 percent of the world's dysprosium and terbium. Most of China's production comes from about 200 mines here in northern Guangdong and in neighboring Jiangxi Province.
 China is also the world's dominant producer of lighter rare earth elements, valuable to a wide range of industries. But these are in less short supply, and the mining is more regulated.
 Half the heavy rare earth mines have licenses and the other half are illegal, industry executives said. But even the legal mines, like the one where Mr. Zeng worked, often pose environmental hazards.
 A close-knit group of mainland Chinese gangs with a capacity for murder dominates much of the mining and has ties to local officials, said Stephen G. Vickers, the former head of criminal intelligence for the Hong Kong police who is now the chief executive of International Risk, a global security company.
 Mr. Zeng defended the industry, saying that he had cousins who owned rare-earth mines and were legitimate businessmen who paid compensation to farmers.
 The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology issued a draft plan last April to halt all exports of heavy rare earths, partly on environmental grounds and partly to force other countries to buy manufactured products from China. When the plan was reported on Sept. 1, Western governments and companies strongly objected and Ms. Wang announced on Sept. 3 that China would not halt exports and would revise its overall plan. But the ministry subsequently cut the annual export quota for all rare earths by 12 percent, the fourth steep cut in as many years.
 Congress responded to the Chinese moves by ordering the Defense Department to conduct a comprehensive review, by April 1, of the American military's dependence on imported rare earths for devices like night-vision gear and rangefinders.
 Western users of heavy rare earths say that they have no way of figuring out what proportion of the minerals they buy from China comes from responsibly operated mines. Licensed and illegal mines alike sell to itinerant traders. They buy the valuable material with sacks of cash, then sell it to processing centers in and around Guangzhou that separate the rare earths from each other.
 Companies that buy these rare earths, including a few in Japan and the West, turn them into refined metal powders.
 ''I don't know if part of that feed, internal in China, came from an illegal mine and went in a legal separator,'' said David Kennedy, the president of Great Western Technologies in Troy, Mich., which imports Chinese rare earths and turns them into powders that are sold worldwide.
 Smuggling is another issue. Mr. Kennedy said that he bought only rare earths covered by Chinese export licenses. But up to half of China's exports of heavy rare earths leave the country illegally, other industry executives said. 
 Zhang Peichen, deputy director of the government-backed Baotou Rare Earth Research Institute, said that smugglers mix rare earths with steel and then export the steel composites, making the smuggling hard to detect. The process is eventually reversed, frequently in Japan, and the rare earths are recovered. Chinese customs officials have stepped up their scrutiny of steel exports to try to stop this trick, one trader said.
 According to the Baotou institute, heavy rare-earth deposits in the hills here will be exhausted in 15 years. Companies want to expand production outside China, but most rare-earth deposits, unlike those in southern China, are accompanied by radioactive uranium and thorium that complicate mining.
 Multinational corporations are starting to review their dependence on heavy rare earths. Toyota said that it bought auto parts that include rare earths, but did not participate in the purchases of materials by its suppliers. Osram, a large lighting manufacturer that is part of Siemens of Germany, said it used the lowest feasible amount of rare earths.
 The biggest user of heavy rare earths in the years ahead could be large wind turbines, which need much lighter magnets for the five-ton generators at the top of ever-taller towers. Vestas, a Danish company that has become the world's biggest wind turbine manufacturer, said that prototypes for its next generation used dysprosium, and that the company was studying the sustainability of the supply. Goldwind, the biggest Chinese turbine maker, has switched from conventional magnets to rare-earth magnets.
 Executives in the $1.3 billion rare-earths mining industry say that less environmentally damaging mining is needed, given the importance of their product for green energy technologies. Developers hope to open mines in Canada, South Africa and Australia, but all are years from large-scale production and will produce sizable quantities of light rare earths. Their output of heavy rare earths will most likely be snapped up to meet rising demand from the wind turbine industry. 
 ''This industry wants to save the world,'' said Nicholas Curtis, the executive chairman of the Lynas Corporation of Australia, in a speech to an industry gathering in Hong Kong in late November. ''We can't do it and leave a product that is glowing in the dark somewhere else, killing people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Zeng Guohui, 41, visiting an abandoned mine where he used to shovel ore from which rare-earth elements were extracted.(A1)
This mine in Guyun Village in China exhausted its heavy rare-earth elements in three years.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) CHART: In Rare-Earth Metals, Chinese Dominance: China has a near monopoly on this group of 17 elements, some of which are used to make efficient light bulbs, electric car motors and wind turbines. And in recent years, the price of one of them, dysprosium, has soared.(Sources: U.S. Geological Survey
 Asian Metal)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); WIND POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); MINES & MINING (76%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (75%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); MINE CLOSINGS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); WATER POLLUTION (66%); RIVERS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); JIANGXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



721 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: At Tiny Rates, Saving Money Costs Investors

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Millions of Americans are paying a high price for a safe place to put their money: extremely low interest rates on savings accounts and certificates of deposit.
 The elderly and others on fixed incomes have been especially hard hit. Many have seen returns on savings, C.D.'s and government bonds drop to niggling amounts recently, often costing them money once inflation, fees and taxes are considered.
 ''Open a Savings Plus Account today and get a great rate,'' read an advertisement in the Dec. 16 Newsday for Citibank, which was then offering 1.2 percent for an account. (As low as it was, the offer was good only for accounts of $25,000 and up.)
 ''They're advertising it in the papers as if they're actually proud of that,'' said Steven Weisman, a title insurance consultant in New York. ''It's a joke.'' 
 The advertised rate for the Savings Plus account has expired, according to the bank's Web site; as of Friday, the account paid an interest rate of 0.5 percent. The bank's highest-yield savings account, the Ultimate, was paying 1.01 percent.
 The best deal Mr. Weisman has found is 2 percent on a one-year certificate of deposit offered by ING Direct, an online bank that has become a bit of a darling among the fixed-income crowd.
 Interest on one- and two-year Treasury notes was just 0.40 percent and 0.89 percent, as of Monday. Bank of America offers 0.35 percent on a standard money market account with $10,000 to $25,000, and Wells Fargo will pay 0.05 percent on a basic savings account.
 Indeed, after fees are subtracted, inflation is accounted for and taxes are paid, many investors in C.D.'s, government bonds and savings and money market accounts are losing money. In fact, Northern Trust waived some $8 million in fees on money market accounts because they would have wiped out all interest, and then some. 
 ''The unemployment situation and the general downturn in the economy had an impact, but what's going to happen now as C.D.'s mature is that retirees and the elderly are going to take anywhere from a half to three-quarters of a percent cut in their incomes,'' said Joe Parks, a retired accountant in Houston on the advisory board of Better Investing, an organization that works to help people become savvier investors. ''It's a real problem.''
 Experts say risk-averse investors are effectively financing a second bailout of financial institutions, many of which have also raised fees and interest rates on credit cards.
 ''What the average citizen doesn't explicitly understand is that a significant part of the government's plan to repair the financial system and the economy is to pay savers nothing and allow damaged financial institutions to earn a nice, guaranteed spread,'' said William H. Gross, co-chief investment officer of the Pacific Investment Management Company, or Pimco. ''It's capitalism, I guess, but it's not to be applauded.''
 Mr. Gross said he read his monthly portfolio statement twice because he could not believe that the line ''Yield on cash'' was 0.01 percent. At that rate, he said, it would take him 6,932 years to double his money. 
 Many think the Federal Reserve is fueling a stock market bubble by keeping rates so low that investors decide to bet on stocks instead. Mr. Parks of Better Investing moved more money into the stock market early this year, when C.D.'s he held began maturing and he could not nearly recover the income they had generated by rolling them over. 
 He began investing some of the money in blue chip stocks with a dividend yield of at least 3 percent and even managed to find an oil-and-gas limited partnership that offered 8 percent.
 Mr. Parks said, however, that he would not pursue that strategy as more of his C.D.'s matured. ''What worked in the first quarter of this year isn't as relevant, because the market has come up so much,'' he said.
 No one is advising a venture into higher-risk investments. Katie Nixon, chief investment officer for the northeast region at Northern Trust, said that, in general, ''no one should be taking risks with their pillow money.'' 
 ''What people are paying for is safety and security,'' she said, ''and that's probably just right.''
 People who rely on income from such investments for support, however, are being forced to consider new options.
 Eileen Lurie, 75, is taking out a reverse mortgage to help offset the decline in returns on her investments tied to interest rates. Reverse mortgages have a checkered reputation, but Ms. Lurie said her bank was going out of its way to explain the product to her. 
 ''These banks don't want to be held responsible for thousands of seniors standing in bread lines,'' she said. 
 Such mortgages allow people who are 62 and older to convert equity in their homes into cash tax-free and without any impact on Social Security or Medicare payments. The loans are repaid after death.
 ''If your assets aren't appreciating and aren't producing any income, you're getting eaten up in this interest rate environment,'' said Peter Strauss, a lawyer who advises the elderly. ''A reverse mortgage is one way of making a very large asset produce income.''
 Eve Wilmore, 93, has watched returns on her C.D.'s drop to between 1 percent and 2 percent from about 5 percent a year or so ago. Yet the Social Security Administration recently raised her Medicare Part B premium based on those higher rates she had been earning. ''I'm being hit from both sides,'' Mrs. Wilmore said. ''There's some way I can apply for a reconsideration, and I'm going to fight it. I have to.''
 She said she was reluctant to redeploy her money into higher-risk investments. ''I don't know what my medical bills will be from here on in, and so I want to keep the money where I can get to it easily if I need it,'' she said.
 Peter Gomori, who taught a course on money and investing for Dorot, a nonprofit that offers services for the elderly, did not advise his students on investment strategies but said that if he had, he would probably have told them to sit tight. 
 ''I know interest rates are very low for Treasury securities and bank products, but that isn't going to be forever,'' he said. 
 But investment professionals doubt rates will rise any time soon -- or to any level close to those before the crash.
 ''What the futures market is telling me,'' Mr. Gross said, ''is that in April 2011, these savers that are currently earning nothing will be earning 1.25 percent.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joe Parks, a retired accountant, said retirees and the elderly would take up to a three-quarters of a percent cut in income.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); BONDS (89%); BAILOUTS (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INTERNET BANKING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (72%); BANK FAILURES (67%); TITLE INSURANCE (53%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); ING GROEP NV (56%); ING BANK FSB (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); INGA (BIT) (56%); INGA (AMS) (56%); ING (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



722 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON RELIGION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Build Bonds With Immigrant Stories

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
 On the last Sunday before Christmas, from an altar flanked by Advent candles and potted poinsettias, the Rev. Clarence L. Johnson preached to the Mills Grove Christian Church about the Nativity. A precise and measured man, Mr. Johnson departed just once from his typewritten text. 
 In the midst of recounting a certain birth in ancient Judea, the minister placed his gaze a dozen rows back into the congregation and rested it on a dark-haired woman in a patterned blouse. He called her by name, Luz, and then he went back into his sermon, to words he had surely chosen with her in mind. 
 ''Joseph was warned by an angel of the Lord that Herod, the king, was searching for the young child in order to destroy him,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''He was instructed to get up and take the baby and his mother, Mary, and flee into Egypt and remain there until it was safe to return. This, then, becomes a refugee story, a story of immigrants, a young family having to escape the dangers of their native land and relocate to a strange new place.''
 Throughout the stucco church, among the hundred worshipers, nobody needed a concordance to grasp the minister's meaning. Earlier in the morning service, they had heard from Luz Dominguez herself. Or, more accurately, they had heard her through the interpreter who translated the testimony of a Mexican immigrant to a congregation of African-Americans.
 ''I am a woman of faith,'' Mrs. Dominguez, 45, had said from the pulpit, ''and I am here to speak to you with my heart in my hands.''
 Then she told a different kind of Christmas narrative, one about being suspended from her job as a hotel housekeeper 10 days before the holiday in 2006. Officially, the reason was that the Social Security number Mrs. Dominguez had provided to the hotel did not match federal records. 
 The timing of the suspension, which was followed two weeks later by her firing, also coincided with the efforts of Mrs. Dominguez and dozens of co-workers to have the hotel comply with a local living-wage law that would have reduced their workload.
 Three years later, the dispute remains unresolved. Mrs. Dominguez now works at a different job and fears a return visit from immigration agents, who have surprised her at home once already. And while she said nothing overt about her immigration status, the audience could surmise that even after 15 years in America it fell somewhere short of legal.
 Her testimony took just four or five minutes of the service, leaving plenty of time for hymns, poetry recitation by the children, collection of offerings and the distribution of the wine and wafer known in many Protestant churches as the Lord's Supper. But when Mrs. Dominguez's brief part ended, there was applause.
 Applause was part of the point. So was the response at the congregational lunch after the service. Over rice and gumbo, about two dozen members of Mills Grove signed letters to Bay Area members of Congress endorsing immigration law change, an issue that President Obama is expected to revive in 2010. The letterhead, quite deliberately, consisted of a verse from Deuteronomy: ''Therefore love the stranger, for you were once strangers in the land of Egypt.''
 Mrs. Dominguez had spoken at Mills Grove as part of several related programs in the Oakland area intended to enlist African-American churches in support of immigration change and, at a more personal level, to neutralize the resistance many blacks have felt toward advocacy for immigrants, especially illegal ones, who are perceived as unfair competitors for manufacturing and service-industry jobs.
 Over the past year, immigrant workers like Mrs. Dominguez have told their stories at 10 black churches in the Oakland area under a program called Labor in the Pulpit, overseen by the East Bay Interfaith Committee for Worker Justice. Another local advocacy group, the Black Alliance for Just Immigration, has held dialogues with members of 15 black churches over the past three years.
 What underlies both of these initiatives has been the sense of disengagement, sometimes ranging to antipathy, on the immigration issue among African-American churches. In part, these churches see more than enough challenges meeting the needs of blacks during the severe economic downturn. In part, they see Latino immigrants as adversaries.
 ''We get 'They're taking our jobs,' '' said Gerald Lenoir, director of the Black Alliance for Just Immigration, recalling his conversations at churches. ''We get, 'They're overwhelming our social services, they're taking over our communities, they're calling it a civil rights struggle, and what about our struggle?' ''
 Black church leaders have come up with answers both idealistic and pragmatic. Brian K. Woodson Sr. pastors a church, the Bay Area Christian Connection, that is near Chinatown in Oakland and shares its building with a Vietnamese congregation. To him, the immigrants make more sense as allies on issues of economic justice than as rivals.
 By bringing immigrants like Mrs. Dominguez into church, sympathetic blacks have been able not only to put a human face on the immigration issue but also a face that is brown-skinned and Christian, affirming two common bonds. The attacks on Latino immigrants on talk radio and cable TV have also encouraged a certain dynamic of ''The enemy of my enemy is my friend.''
 ''Whenever we see our brothers and sisters being treated wrongly,'' Mr. Johnson said in an interview, ''it's incumbent on us to raise our voices. For those of us who've been involved in the struggle and have gained benefits from that struggle, we feel it's right to pass the benefits along.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); REFUGEES (69%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); HOTEL STAFF (67%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (65%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%); LIVING WAGE (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



723 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 IN SENTENCE OF ACTIVIST, CHINA REBUKES THE WEST
 The 11-year prison term given to Liu Xiaobo, an activist for democracy and human rights, was seen by many experts as a signal that China would not yield to international pressure on human rights. PAGE A4
 JAPAN PASSES RECORD BUDGET 
 The Japanese government approved a record trillion-dollar budget that contains ambitious welfare outlays. The scale of new spending, however, could renew investor jitters about Japan's burgeoning debt. PAGE A5 
 MIDEAST SWAY ELUDES RUSSIA
 An effort by Russia to re-establish the nation as an important player in the Middle East has sputtered, underscoring the difficulties it faces in reclaiming the global influence of the Soviet Union. PAGE A7 
 U.S. SHIFTS WAR ZONE POLICY
 The top United States commander in Iraq intends to rescind a policy that could punish newly pregnant soldiers and their sexual partners. PAGE A7 
 2 BISHOPS IN IRELAND RESIGN
 Two Roman Catholic bishops in Dublin, Eamonn Walsh and Ray Field, resigned on Christmas Day after an investigation into decades of child abuse and cover-ups in the Dublin Archdiocese. PAGE A9 
 Obituaries
 JOHN H. FISCHER, 99
 His determined leadership as school superintendent made Baltimore the first large American city to integrate its public schools. He also brought reform and innovation to the Teachers College of Columbia University as its dean and president. PAGE B10 
 ALICE SCHILLER, 95
 She cried the day her husband said he was opening a burlesque house in Los Angeles, but rallied to make the place -- the Pink Pussycat of Hollywood -- one of the most successful nightclubs of its era. PAGE B10 
 National
 RECESSION HOVERS AS WINTER HALTS CONSTRUCTION WORK
 Construction projects in New England, including those financed by federal stimulus money, are being driven into hibernation by winter. That is bad news in Fitchburg, Mass., where the more than half the street lights are kept dark at night to save money. Fitchburg Journal, by Michael Cooper. PAGE A10 
 STORM HOBBLES MIDWEST
 Howling winds spread snow and freezing rain across the northern Plains, as the storm that stretched from Texas to North Dakota over the last several days wrapped the upper Midwest in a debilitating wintry mix on Christmas Day. PAGE A10 
 FUEL OIL SPILL IN ALASKA
 Two decades after the Exxon Valdez disaster, a tugboat working to prevent oil spills in Prince William Sound ran aground on the same reef and left a three-mile sheen of fuel oil on the water. PAGE A12 
 New York
 MINORITY GROUPS, TOGETHER,
 Were Majority in Election
 The New York City elections held last month produced a seismic political shift that so far has gone largely unnoticed: Black, Hispanic and Asian residents made up a majority of voters in a citywide race for the first time. PAGE A13 
 CHRISTMAS FOR CONVERTS
 For thousands of people who convert to Judaism, Christmas brings up questions that often have less to do with theology than with culture and custom. PAGE A13 
 2 FAMILIES GRIEVE AFTER FIGHT
 Two families who live in public housing near Queensbridge Park in Long Island City spent Christmas sorting through tangled accounts of a fight that took place the night before and left a young father dead and a teenage girl on the run. PAGE A14 
 Business
 LETTING CHILDREN SEARCH THE INTERNET, THEIR WAY
 Google has sponsored research on children and keyword searching, hoping to discern the differences between how children and adults search, and identify the barriers children face when trying to retrieve information. PAGE B1 
 RECESSION? TEENAGERS GET IT
 Sales are down sharply at nearly every major retail chain catering to teenagers, and interviews with teenagers suggest that the reasons go beyond their own difficulty finding part-time jobs. PAGE B1 
 THEME PARK BOOM IN ASIA
 The recession closed some American theme parks and quashed plans for new parks in the Middle East. In Asia, however, a development boomlet is under way to satisfy a growing middle class. PAGE B3 
 TEST FOR NEW ZEALAND WINES
 New Zealand's wineries are fighting to preserve their reputation as premium producers, even as bumper harvests and thrifty drinkers pull them the opposite way. PAGE B3 
 GET A DEAL ON A GYM
 Health and fitness clubs, like everyone else, are experiencing lean times. But that is good news for consumers. Patient Money by Walecia Konrad. PAGE B4 
 TWO TAX MATTERS FOR 2010
 Wealthy investors need to consider two taxmatters next year: Whether to change their tax-free retirement accounts and how to deal with uncertainty over the estate tax. Wealth Matters by Paul Sullivan. PAGE B4 
 Sports
 HEAT SPOILS GOOD CHEER FOR KNICKS AT GARDEN
 It took the Knicks eight years to earn a game on Christmas again. It seems they were not quite ready for the honor. Miami's Dwyane Wade scored 30 points as the Heat defeated the Knicks, 93-87. PAGE B9 
 Arts
 SHOW STRIVES TO LIVE DOWN WEB-DRIVEN RUMOR MILL
 When Bobby Steggert exits the Neil Simon Theater after playing a young anarchist in ''Ragtime,'' he is often greeted by sorrow that the show is closing. But ''Ragtime'' is not closing. The rumors began with anonymous claims on a widely read theater blog. PAGE C1 
 TINY PUBLISHER ON A MISSION
 Open Letter Books, a small, year-old press in Rochester, publishes nothing but literature in translation. And although its sales are modest, its efforts have quickly attracted attention and critical praise. PAGE C1 
 A Tale Behind Met's 'Hoffmann' C1 
 String Students at Carnegie Hall C3 
 PODCAST On Your Money: Web sites that let you donate to entrepreneurs and others in need, and how to save on taxes if you act fast.
 nytimes.com/yourmoney

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); OIL SPILLS (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (84%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); RELIGION (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (66%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (63%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (75%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRELAND (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



724 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Japan Passes a Record Trillion-Dollar Budget

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
The Japanese government approved on Friday a record trillion-dollar budget that encompasses ambitious welfare outlays to help households cope with the country's deep economic woes, but the scale of spending could renew investor jitters about the government's growing debt. 
 Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama, who took office in September after landmark elections that ended an era of single-party rule in Japan, has been trying to strike a balance between a budget large enough to kick-start economic recovery and the need to keep new lending in check.
 He has been distracted, however, by mishandled negotiations over the fate of a United States military air base in Japan and by a campaign finance scandal. On Thursday, Mr. Hatoyama apologized to the nation after two former aides were charged with falsely reporting donations, though he denied any wrongdoing on his part.
 Addressing the country on Friday for the second night in a row, Mr. Hatoyama, who leads the Democratic Party, urged the public to stay focused on the task of rebuilding an economy recovering from its worst recession since World War II.
 The record $1 trillion budget for the fiscal year starting in April shifts spending to households by allocating more to welfare and education at the expense of public works projects.
 Mr. Hatoyama said he hoped that the generous welfare spending would encourage households to consume more, offering a much-needed stimulus to the economy.
 ''Together with all of you, I want to build a better Japan, a new Japan,'' Mr. Hatoyama said at a news conference. ''I have adhered to the principle that people matter more than concrete.''
 Japan will issue fresh debt worth a record $485 billion, in line with an earlier estimate, he said. The new borrowing will bring Japan's public debt to about $9.4 trillion, or 181 percent of gross domestic product, at the end of March 2011, by far the highest in the industrialized world.
 Dogging Mr. Hatoyama's budgeting efforts has been a plunge in tax revenue as Japan's export-oriented economy struggles with a falloff in international trade brought on by the global economic crisis.
 Tax receipts, about $405 billion, are expected to make up less than half the government's budget, forcing the government to borrow more than it receives in revenues -- another postwar first.
 Citing tough finances, the government abandoned a campaign pledge to cut an unpopular tax on gasoline, and it has backtracked on promises to abolish tolls on highways. But the government stuck with its ambitious social agenda, which includes cash payments to child-rearing households and free public high school education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); RECESSION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); GASOLINE (65%); FUEL TAX (61%); SCANDALS (54%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: YUKIO HATOYAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



725 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FITCHBURG JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Recession Hovers As Winter Halts Construction Work

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: FITCHBURG, Mass. 

 BODY:
Graying snow frosts the orange traffic cones blocking some of the roadwork around here, and the few pieces of remaining equipment sit idle. The New England winter has once again driven the construction industry into hibernation, and as the first season of stimulus work draws to a close, the best prospect for shovel-ready work during the next few months involves snow shovels. 
 Doug Smith, 57, worked on a stimulus project this fall removing the heavy Jersey barriers dividing a stretch of Route 2 and preparing the road for new metal guardrails. For Mr. Smith and his colleagues, the winter will be a time to get in some ice fishing and spend time with the family, while waiting for the thaw and more work. 
 ''They said they'd see me in the spring,'' he said here this week, ''but you never know.''
 Few places could use some economic stimulation as much as Fitchburg, where times are so tough that the city of about 41,000 people now keeps more than half of its street lights dark at night to save money. Workers from the area recently helped build a new plant nearby for Evergreen Solar, but the company has now announced it will move some of the work it had expected to do there to China to save money. 
 When a couple of big projects wrapped up this year, the region saw one of the steepest drops in construction employment in the nation, according to an analysis by the Association of General Contractors of America. And the exodus of factories and paper mills, the story of cities like this for decades, has continued.
 Inside the brick headquarters of Local 39 of the Laborers' International Union of North America here, David Leger, the business manager, is on the lookout for work for his 400 members. They have done well in recent years. The new factories they helped build for Evergreen Solar and Bristol-Myers Squibb, at the site of the former Fort Devens military base, kept them busy. But those jobs are done now.
 ''Our recession's going to start now,'' Mr. Leger said in his office, which has a ''Buy American'' sticker stuck to one of the wood-paneled walls, near an old picture of a young John F. Kennedy standing beside a bygone official at the local. ''This year will be our first year of real recession for the local, unless we land some big jobs. Next year will be a little difficult for a lot of guys to make their hours.''
 Hours are key. Union laborers must work 1,000 hours a year to keep their health insurance and earn credit toward their pensions. In lean years they will sometimes travel 90 miles to jobs, even to areas that pay less, to make sure that they get enough hours to qualify for their benefits. 
 No one is quite sure where their hours will come from next year. Mr. Smith hopes to go back to his stimulus project on Route 2. But some of his colleagues are not sure what lies in store. 
 Barry Flynn, 44, has not worked since August, when his job on a gas pipeline wrapped up. William Marks, 54, has seen good times and bad times since joining the union in 1978, but he does not know what to expect. Steve Begnoche, 43, who did a lot of the high-altitude work at the beginning of the decade on the new bridge over the North Nashua River behind the union hall, said he did not know what would replace all the jobs that were done now that the new factories at Devens were finished. In the meantime, some plan to look for odd jobs this winter: some carpentry work, perhaps picking up after an ice storm, or driving a snowplow.
 They are hoping that the stimulus spending will help fill the gap. The state has plans to use some of the money to improve the rail line from Fitchburg to Boston, cutting the commuting time to under an hour. Another bridge is planned for the Nashua River in nearby Clinton. But the first year went slowly.
 Through the end of November, when the construction season ended, Massachusetts had started work on projects worth less than half of the $437.9 million in highway money it received from Washington, according to figures from the state, and had spent less than $30 million in actual outlays to contractors. Like many other states, it had a loose definition of ''shovel-ready.'' 
 Representative James L. Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota and chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, chided the state this fall for the pace of its stimulus work. Mr. Oberstar wrote to Gov. Deval Patrick in October warning that the state was one of the slowest to get its stimulus work started. 
 But state officials noted that, unlike other states, Massachusetts had already ramped up its road and bridge building programs before the stimulus legislation passed. So rather than spending its stimulus money quickly on paving projects, as some states have, Massachusetts chose projects that were a bit more complicated but that officials believe will continue to spur economic development long after the laborers go home. One example is a road project in Somerville, near Cambridge, that officials say will help spur the development of the area with a new Ikea store, office space, stores, housing and a transit stop. 
 Jeffrey B. Mullan, the secretary of the Massachusetts Department of Transportation, said in an interview that each state should use its stimulus money to address its particular needs, and that Massachusetts would beat all its deadlines. 
 ''It's not a one-size-fits-all,'' Mr. Mullan said. 
 While giving a tour of the city, Joe Melanson, 59, the former manager of Local 39, said that what he would most like to see from Washington was an old-fashioned jobs program. 
 ''Work is work,'' Mr. Melanson said, as he pointed out evidence of all the work that had fled -- the paper plant that closed this year, which once made the river run green and red when it was making colored paper; the site of the old shoe factory, the former Iver Johnson gun factory. ''Work is work.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 6, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 26 about hardships faced by construction workers in Fitchburg, Mass., as they settled into winter misstated the name of a national construction industry organization. It is the Associated General Contractors of America, not the Association of General Contractors of America.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Having just completed some big construction jobs, members of Local 39 of the laborers' union are on the lookout for work. At left,William Marks, left, Bernard Flynn and Steve Begnoche discussed their status. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Fitchburg has seen a steep drop in construction jobs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (77%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); PAPER MILLS (66%); PAPER & PACKAGING (64%); SPORT FISHING (55%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (53%)

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



726 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: In Sentence Of Activist, China Gives West a Chill

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Jonathan Ansfield contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
The harsh sentence handed down on Friday to Liu Xiaobo, one of China's most prominent campaigners for democracy and human rights, prompted strong rebukes in the United States and Europe, but it also raised fresh questions over whether the West has much leverage over a government that is increasingly self-assured on the world stage. 
 By sentencing Mr. Liu to 11 years in prison for subversion, the Chinese government sent a chilling message to advocates of political reform and free speech. Mr. Liu, 53, a former literature professor who helped draft a manifesto last December that demanded open elections and the rule of law, was convicted after a closed two-hour trial on Wednesday in which his lawyers were allowed less than 20 minutes to state his case. 
 But many experts on Chinese politics said that Mr. Liu's conviction on vague charges of ''incitement to subvert state power'' through his writing was also an unmistakable signal to the West that China would not yield to international pressure when it came to human rights. During his visit to China last month, President Obama raised Mr. Liu's case with President Hu Jintao. Leaders of the European Union have been pressing for his release. 
 But a spokesman for China's Foreign Ministry described such pressure on Tuesday as ''gross interference in China's judicial internal affairs.'' The next day, more than two dozen American and European diplomats who sought to observe the trial were barred from the courthouse. 
 ''If China's Communist Party wanted to advertise to the world that they will do anything to protect their power and use the judiciary to accomplish that, then the persecution of Liu Xiaobo was a perfect vehicle,'' Jerome A. Cohen, an expert on China's legal system and a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, said Friday.
 The State Department issued a statement on Friday calling on China to release Mr. Liu, saying that the ''persecution of individuals for the peaceful expression of political views is inconsistent with internationally recognized norms of human rights.''
 Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said she was ''dismayed'' by the sentence. The United Nations said Mr. Liu's conviction had thrown ''an ominous shadow'' over China's commitments to human rights. 
 Such pointed criticisms are unlikely to have much impact, many China analysts said. Mr. Hu assumed full power in 2003 after a period of modest legal reforms. But under his leadership, the government has presided over a tightening of Internet restrictions, the repression of rights lawyers and the persecution of intellectuals who called for greater transparency and an end to single-party rule. Those who thought that the leadership might loosen its controls for the Beijing Olympics last year were disheartened by the crackdown that took place to prevent people from organizing demonstrations. 
 Edward Friedman, an expert on Chinese politics at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, said many people in the West had been clinging to the misguided notion that China's economic development would quickly lead to political liberalization. ''It's clear that what matters most to the Chinese Communist Party is the survival of the regime and their monopoly on power,'' he said. 
 Many human rights advocates partly blame Western political leaders for putting up with China's growing intolerance of domestic dissent. They contend that as China's economic power has expanded, the United States and Europe have been softening calls for human rights. 
 They were especially critical of Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's visit to Beijing last February, arguing that human rights took a back seat to an agenda focused on economic concerns and efforts to gain China's cooperation in dealing with Iran and North Korea. 
 Many human rights advocates were also unhappy with Mr. Obama's decision to put off a meeting with the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual leader, shortly before the president's visit to Beijing. The move, they said, was intended to avoid offending China. 
 The White House insists that it is committed to promoting freedom, but says that it is trying to make its case without the public hectoring favored by the Bush and Clinton administrations. Mrs. Clinton has called the approach ''principled pragmatism.''
 Phelim Kine, a researcher with Human Rights Watch in Hong Kong, said that quiet diplomacy was valuable at times, but that without real pressure from the United States, its largest trading partner, China had no incentive to improve its human rights record. ''In the aftermath of the tragic conviction of Liu Xiaobo, we really need to think about how the U.S. is going to engage China and make sure that there are real benchmarks for progress,'' he said.
 He and others maintain that the United States and its allies must break free from a mentality that fears the economic might of a rising China. The United States can no longer prod China on human rights through the annual battle over ''most favored nation'' trading status, because China is now a member of the World Trade Organization. But human rights advocates say that the White House still has substantial leverage when it comes to trade.
 And while China may hold hundreds of billions of dollars of the United States government's debt, in the form of Treasury bonds and other Treasury securities, some analysts play down concerns about the possibility of China retaliating against American pressure over human rights by selling off its holdings. Gordon Chang, the author of ''The Coming Collapse of China,'' said that the Chinese government simply had nowhere else to park its swelling foreign reserves. 
 China's huge trade imbalance with the United States, Mr. Chang said, is a potential cudgel that Washington should be prepared to use. ''President Obama can get on the phone with Hu Jintao and say these are the things you need to do,'' he said. 
 ''We are extremely indulgent about irresponsible Chinese conduct when it comes to human rights,'' Mr. Chang added. ''We are encouraging the very type of behavior we're trying to prevent.''
 The Chinese leadership is still nervous about the potential for domestic unrest that could threaten its power. Although not timid in its prosecution of Mr. Liu, the authorities made sure that coverage of his trial stayed out of the state-run news media. 
 Mr. Friedman of the University of Wisconsin agrees that the United States should play hard ball but said that to have any chance of moving Beijing, such efforts must be coordinated with other countries that have significant trade with China. Otherwise, he said, the Chinese government can simply play one nation against the other. ''Even if you have unity on the issue, you're not guaranteed to win but without it, you don't stand a chance,'' he said.
 Even as it questioned hundreds of people who signed Charter 08, the manifesto Mr. Liu helped to draft, government censors had any mention of the document quickly scrubbed from the Internet after it became public a year ago. There was one exception, however. On Friday, the English-language edition of Xinhua, the official news agency, published a brief item about Mr. Liu's sentencing. The article said the court ''had strictly followed the legal procedures in this case and fully protected Liu's litigation rights.'' The Chinese-language version of Xinhua, however, made no mention of the verdict. Instead, it declared 2009 the ''year of citizens' rights.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Police and plainclothes security personnel tried to move a protester away from a courthouse in Beijing where the human rights activist Liu Xiaobo was sentenced Friday. Left, Mr. Liu's wife, Liu Xia, spoke with her husband's lawyer, Shang Baojun, outside his Beijing office. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
DAVID GRAY/REUTERS) (A4)
 Chinese police officers on Friday followed Western diplomats to the courthouse in Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (78%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



727 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: A Health Care Debate Lesson: Obama Plays by Washington's Rules

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Howard Dean ran for president in 2004 as the outsider ready to battle an entrenched establishment in Washington. And so, four years later, did Barack Obama.
 Now, one year into Mr. Obama's presidency, a sharp dispute between the president and Mr. Dean over the health care bill the Senate approved Thursday -- Mr. Dean denounced it as a sellout, while Mr. Obama heralded it as a historic breakthrough -- is illustrating the roots of the ideological breach within the Democratic party. 
 It is not just that the left wing of the party thinks that its centrists hold too much sway and are too quick to cave when faced with pressure from the right. It is also that this White House, stocked as it is with insiders, people whose view of politics is shaped by the compromises inherent in legislating, is confronting a liberal base made up largely of outsiders to the lawmaking process who are asking why they should accept politics as usual. 
 As much as Mr. Obama presented himself as an outsider during his campaign, a lesson of this battle is that this is a president who would rather work within the system than seek to upend it. He is not the ideologue ready to stage a symbolic fight that could end in defeat; he is a former senator comfortable in dealing with the arcane rules of the Senate and prepared to accept compromise in search of a larger goal. For the most part, Democrats on Capitol Hill have stuck with him.
 By contrast, Mr. Dean, the former Democratic Party chairman who has long had strained relations with this administration, said the White House was slow to fight and quick to make concessions -- particularly on creating a public insurance plan -- and demanded that Democrats kill the Senate version of the health care bill. 
 That sentiment was echoed by liberal efforts that grew up around the Dean campaign, notably Daily Kos and MoveOn.org, which argued that Mr. Obama was not tough enough in staring down foes, be they insurance companies or Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Democrat-turned-independent from Connecticut.
 ''He ran as someone who would fight against entrenched special interests on behalf of the little guy,'' said Adam Green, co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, which has emerged as one of Mr. Obama's leading critics in recent days. ''And what we learned in this debate is that he's not willing to fight and exert pressure on entrenched special interests when it comes to big ideas.''
 Of course, it is easier to be an outsider when you are on the outside, which is where Mr. Dean is these days, after making an unsuccessful effort to win a post in the Obama White House. And Mr. Dean's longtime feud with Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, was noted by many Democrats who were taken aback by the sharp tenor of Mr. Dean's attack on others in the party. (Mr. Dean declined to comment.)
 Still, Mr. Obama's approach to this battle should not be a surprise to anyone who has followed his career or his campaign for the White House. He served in the United States Senate and in the Illinois Senate. His choice for chief of staff -- Mr. Emanuel -- was the No. 3 person in the House Democratic leadership, and many of his top West Wing aides came out of staff jobs in the Senate.
 Mr. Obama may find it frustrating that it is impossible under Senate rules to get something through without 60 votes, but those are the rules and he is going to play by them. He was not about to go to Connecticut and to whip up the public against Mr. Lieberman, or to press for him to be relieved of his leadership positions in the Senate, as Mr. Green suggested he do.
 ''The president wasn't after a Pyrrhic victory -- he wasn't into symbolism,'' said David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama. ''The president is after solving a problem that has bedeviled a country and countless families for generations.''
 All of this has come at a time of strains between Mr. Obama and the left. Mr. Obama has come under fire on several fronts, like health care, escalation of the war in Afghanistan and his failure so far to make good on a campaign pledge to end the ban on open homosexuals in the military.
 Mr. Obama has moved to the center on some issues since he became president, particularly on elements of national security. Still, he never presented himself as a doctrinaire liberal, and much of what he is doing as president tracks with what he talked about during the campaign. 
 Mr. Obama's call to send more troops to Afghanistan is what he always talked about in the context of outlining his opposition to the war in Iraq. ''It's not like he woke up one morning and said, 'Let's go fight a war in Afghanistan,' '' Mr. Emanuel said. ''He talked about it in the campaign.''
 And Mr. Obama never exhibited the left's passion for establishing a public insurance option as part of an overhaul of health care. He rarely talked about it during scores of debates, speeches and interviews during the campaign; instead he focused on expanding coverage, lowering costs and ending health insurance abuses.
 During the campaign, many people saw in Mr. Obama what they wanted to see in him, and in the Democratic primaries he often appealed more directly to the left than did Hillary Rodham Clinton, his main rival for most of the contest. The question now is whether legislative and policy accomplishment -- signing a health care bill, however imperfect in the eyes of liberals, steadying the economy, winding down the war in Iraq -- will be enough, assuming Mr. Obama achieves them, to maintain the support and enthusiasm of those on the left who wanted even more from him.
 Mr. Green said that Mr. Obama's failure to push for the public option -- or to enlist his network of grass-root supporters behind it -- had sapped the energy out of the base and would have consequences for the 2010 elections. If Mr. Green is correct, that could be a real problem for Democrats, particularly given how energetic opposition to the health bill and the entire Obama agenda appears to be among Republicans.
 But this could also prove to be a test of just how much power the outside voices in the left wing have over the insiders in the White House and on Capitol Hill. The stinging attack from Mr. Dean and organizations on the left calling for the defeat of the health care bill failed to dissuade a single Senate Democrat from voting for it. And Mr. Axelrod said he was not worried that would hurt the party come November.
 ''When people focus on what this bill is and not what it isn't and recognize what an enormous landmark achievement it is, progressive achievement, you'll see folks rallying around this and not running away from it,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A Political Memo article on Saturday about an ideological breach in the Democratic Party misstated Rahm Emanuel's leadership rank in the House of Representatives before he left to become White House chief of staff. He was the No. 4 Democrat, not the No. 3.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama spoke on health care Dec. 19 at the White House as Rahm Emanuel looked on. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Howard Dean shown in his presidential run in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INSURANCE (63%); APPROVALS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009



728 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: States Split Over Medicaid Costs in Senate's Bill

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
States that have already broadly expanded health care coverage are pushing back against the Senate overhaul bill, arguing that it unfairly penalizes them in favor of states that have done little or nothing to extend benefits to the uninsured.
 With tax revenues down and budgets breaking, the states -- including Arizona, California, New Jersey, New York and Wisconsin -- say they cannot afford to essentially subsidize other states' expansion of health care. 
 The bill passed by the Senate on Thursday would move toward universal health insurance coverage in large part by expanding Medicaid, a program whose costs have traditionally been shared by the states and the federal government.
 But the roughly 20 states that have already expanded coverage in some form will pay a greater proportion of their new Medicaid costs under the bill than those states, largely in the South, that until now have covered relatively few of their poorest residents. 
 Medicaid covers about 60 million Americans, mostly low-income families and pregnant women, though some states have expanded eligibility to include childless adults under 65. It accounts for about one-fifth of state budgets, on average. 
 States that have expanded coverage have generally broadened eligibility to include parents with relatively higher income levels and a greater number of childless adults. Even governors in some states without expanded coverage are suggesting that their budgets cannot afford a widened program without additional federal assistance.
 ''There is always an issue with Medicaid that different states are in different places,'' said Diane Rowland, the executive director of the Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured at the Kaiser Family Foundation. ''Do you reward the leader states as well as the laggard states, the good states versus the bad? How do you equalize the assistance? That's at the heart of this.''
 The states with expanded coverage would get more relief from the cost-sharing provisions of the health care bill passed by the House in November.
 In memorandums explaining the legislation, the drafters of the Senate bill argued that states without expanded coverage would need more help from the federal government to defray the costs of broadening their programs. But governors in the states that have done more to broaden coverage are now lobbying their Congressional delegations to eliminate the discrepancies as the two chambers reconcile the bills. 
 ''We are, in a sense, being punished for our own charity,'' Gov. David A. Paterson of New York said last week.
 Wendy Saunders, New York's deputy secretary for health, Medicaid and oversight, estimated that it would cost about $30 billion over 10 years to adjust the financing formula so that the Senate bill matches the more generous provisions of the House bill.
 ''Because it's not a huge cost in the context of what is happening, we're optimistic that it can be worked out,'' Ms. Saunders said. 
 Massachusetts and Vermont, the states providing the broadest coverage, have already received some relief for the anticipated Medicaid costs in the negotiations that led to the passage of the Senate bill.
 To secure the crucial 60th vote from Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, Senate leaders permanently exempted his state from paying to expand Medicaid. But other states, many of them strong supporters of an overhaul, have been left in the lurch. 
 Existing Medicaid coverage varies widely. Arkansas, for example, extends Medicaid to working parents who earn up to 17 percent of the federal poverty level, and Alabama offers coverage for those making up to 24 percent of that level. Minnesota covers working parents making up to 215 percent of the federal poverty level, and New York, up to 150 percent. New York also covers childless adults up to 65 making up to 100 percent of the federal poverty level. 
 In Arizona, where state revenues are down 31 percent, the governor called an emergency cabinet meeting last week as the Senate bill was advancing and ordered the state to stop accepting applicants to its children's health insurance program. The state, where voters approved an expansion of Medicaid in 2000, projects that in the first seven years of an overhaul, its share of Medicaid would be $17 billion under the Senate bill. Had Arizona not expanded coverage, the state's share would have been $1.4 billion, the state estimates. 
 ''You'll have taxpayers in Arizona raising taxes on themselves not only to support their program, but to cover all the other states expanding,'' said Thomas J. Betlach, the Medicaid director in Arizona. ''I work for an insolvent entity; we can't afford the program we have.''
 The House bill would take effect in 2013 and expand Medicaid to cover Americans earning up to 150 percent of the federal poverty level, currently about $29,300 for a family of four and $14,400 for an individual. The Senate bill would begin in 2014 and extend Medicaid to Americans making up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level.
 Under the Senate bill, the federal government would pay the entire cost of expanding Medicaid to those not already eligible under state coverage for the first two years of the program. The following three years, states that do not now have expanded coverage would be reimbursed at a higher rate than those states that do -- in general, the states without expanded coverage would be paid back 95 percent of their costs, while those that have already expanded coverage would be reimbursed between 80 percent and 95 percent. Medicaid reimbursement rates are based on per capita income; wealthier states have smaller shares of their costs paid back.
 The biggest hit to states that have already expanded will be in covering the people who are eligible now but have not signed up for coverage under the state's current program. They are expected to enroll because the new legislation will require almost all Americans to have insurance. 
 States that have expanded already would not get any new matching funds for those people. The Senate bill provides additional money only for those who are ''newly eligible.'' 
 For example, the federal government would pick up the entire cost for the first two years and 95 percent of the cost for the next three years for newly covered working parents in Alabama, which now covers only those making up to 24 percent of the federal poverty level. 
 But it would pay just 50 percent of the cost for most of those newly enrolled in California, because California already makes eligible working parents earning up to 106 percent of the poverty level and its Medicaid assistance is set at 50 percent. California would get a more generous reimbursement, about 83 percent, only for parents earning from 106 percent to 133 percent of the federal poverty level.
 ''We support the policy, but we need to make sure the financial reality aligns with the policy,'' said Toby Douglas, the Medicaid director in California.
 New York expects nearly one million people who are currently eligible for Medicaid under a state expansion to sign up under the federal legislation.
 Because the state has expanded coverage, the federal government would pay just 50 percent of the cost for all but about 100,000 of those people, Ms. Saunders said. The Senate bill would cost the state $1 billion a year, while the House bill would provide an additional $4 billion a year.
 The House bill largely eliminates the problem of signing up people who are now eligible under state programs by counting anyone who signs up as ''newly eligible.''
 The recession has swelled Medicaid rolls already.
 ''We'd be having a very different discussion if the economy was humming and everyone was back to work,'' said Carol Steckel, Alabama's Medicaid director and the chairwoman of the National Association of State Medicaid Directors. ''But I still think you'd see the different philosophies about who is responsible for the costs. There has to be a balance.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the reaction of states to the costs of expanding Medicaid coverage in the Senate health care bill misstated the length of time the federal government would pay the entire cost of the expansion to people who are not already eligible under state coverage. It is three years (2014 through 2016) -- not two. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson of New York, which has already expanded its Medicaid coverage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (93%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (79%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (53%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



729 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; THE YEAR IN STYLE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Bloggers Crashed Fashion's Front Row

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
NOT everyone thought it was adorable in September when a 13-year-old wunderkind blogger named Tavi was given a front-row seat at the fashion shows of Marc Jacobs, Rodarte and others. 
 Oh now, don't misunderstand. She was totally adorable. You could have gobbled her up, with her goofy spark plug style -- a Peggy Guggenheim for the Tweeting tween set. Her feet, in designer stockings, did not quite touch the ground. Within a matter of months, Tavi Gevinson, the author of a blog called Style Rookie, was feted by designers, filming promotions for Target, flown to Tokyo for a party with the label Comme des Garcons and writing a review of the collections for no less than Harper's Bazaar. Kate and Laura Mulleavy, the designers of Rodarte, described her in the pages of Teen Vogue as ''curious and discerning.'' 
 Rather, it was what the arrival of Ms. Gevinson, as a blogger, represented that ruffled feathers among the fashion elite. Anne Slowey, who has spent decades climbing the editorial ladder to a senior position at Elle, dismissed the teenager's column as ''a bit gimmicky'' in an interview with New York magazine. And in an instant, the subtext in her complaint was read by dozens of Ms. Gevinson's fans as an example of the tension between old media and new, when one leapfrogs ahead of the other.
 As a relatively new phenomenon in the crowded arena of journalists whose specialty it is to report the news of the catwalks, fashion bloggers have ascended from the nosebleed seats to the front row with such alacrity that a long-held social code among editors, one that prizes position and experience above outward displays of ambition or enjoyment, has practically been obliterated. After all, what is one to think -- besides publicity stunt -- when Bryan Boy, a pseudonymous, style-obsessed blogger from the Philippines, is seated at the D & G show in Milan between the august front-row fixtures of Vogue and Vanity Fair, a mere two positions to the right of Anna Wintour? 
 ''There has been a complete change this year,'' said Kelly Cutrone, who has been organizing fashion shows since 1987. ''Do I think, as a publicist, that I now have to have my eye on some kid who's writing a blog in Oklahoma as much as I do on an editor from Vogue? Absolutely. Because once they write something on the Internet, it's never coming down. And it's the first thing a designer is going to see.''
 Perhaps it was to be expected that the communications revolution would affect the makeup of the fashion news media in much the same way it has changed the broader news media landscape. At a time when magazines like Vogue, W, Glamour and Bazaar have pared their staffs and undergone deep cutbacks because of the impact of the recession on their advertising sales, blogs have made remarkable strides in gaining both readership and higher profiles. At the shows this year, there were more seats reserved for editors from Fashionista, Fashionologie, Fashiontoast, Fashionair and others, and fewer for reporters from regional newspapers that can no longer afford the expense of covering the runways independently. 
 But it is somewhat surprising that designers are adjusting to the new breed of online reporter more readily than magazines, which have been slow to adapt to the demand for instant content about all things fashion. Blogs are posting images and reviews of collections before the last model exits the runway, while magazine editors are still jockeying to feature those clothes in issues that will be published months later.
 So it is not without reason that some editors feel threatened, or that seasoned critics worry that they could be replaced by a teenager. The designers and publicists who once quivered before the mighty pens are now courting writers from Web sites that offer a direct pipeline to potential customers. Sure, magazines and newspapers have started their own blogs and tweets, but reading them, you often sense a generational disconnect, something like the queasy feeling of getting a ''friend'' request from your mother on Facebook. (From Glamour.com: ''Dating Tips: Why It's Important to Get That Number.'')
 Sites that include readers in the conversation are thriving, in a sense democratizing the coverage of style, much as designers and retailers -- with lower priced fast-fashion collections -- have democratized fashion itself. Garance Dore and Scott Schuman, two photographers who have become stars online (and who are a couple off-line), have created popular blogs with the simple idea of posting images of stylish people and opening them to public comment. Now designers are seeking their advice on communications strategies and even design -- Ms. Dore and Mr. Schuman have worked on projects with Gap.
 Other sites have gained credibility along with traffic. Fashionista.com had 103,512 unique visitors in November, and Fashionologie.com had 27,125, according to the online tracking agency Compete. Jezebel.com (a saucy blog that includes coverage of fashion) shot ahead of Style.com (the Conde Nast fashion site) for the first time this fall with more than a half-million visitors. These are considered large audiences for dispatches on such trivial developments as models refusing to wear Alexander McQueen's crazy shoes or that such-and-such designer is looking for an intern.
 The personalities behind those sites, in turn, are becoming as famous as some magazine editors. Marc Jacobs named one of his bag designs after Bryan Boy, while Sephora asked Lauren Luke, whose makeup videos are an Internet sensation, to preside over beauty contests in its stores. Designers are thinking differently in response to consumers who want instant gratification. Doo-Ri Chung, for example, describing her new basics collection in The Financial Times this fall, said her customer has a ''blog mentality, not a magazine mentality.''
 ''The old idea of reading a magazine and planning ahead, that's not something that younger customers do,'' she said. ''It's a different world, and designers have to adapt.''
 Still, the popularity and novelty of such sites have raised concerns that their writers might be unduly influenced by designers or beauty companies. New guidelines from the Federal Trade Commission, announced in October, require blogs to disclose in their online product reviews if they receive free merchandise or payment for the items they write about. This bothered some bloggers, and reasonably so, since magazine editors commonly receive stockpiles of the same expensive goodies to review in their pages, and that practice is rarely disclosed even though magazines are beholden to advertisers for their livelihood.
 Those guidelines also seem excessive at a time when magazines and newspapers are changing their tone to embrace the online culture. On several fashion sites last week, it was reported that Vogue is planning to feature a group of bloggers in its March issue, including Tommy Ton of Jak & Jil, Ms. Dore and, yes, even Bryan Boy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRUCE: The bloggers Bryan Boy, third from left, and Tommy Ton, right, in Milan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS VALLE) (ST1)
ADVICE: Lauren Luke in a screen grab from her blog, where she offers makeup tutorials. Sephora has enlisted her aid.
 WEB WUNDERKIND: Tavi Gevinson, who writes the Style Rookie blog, at the Alexander Wang show in September in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASTRID STAWIARZ/GETTY IMAGES) (ST11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); WRITERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); JOURNALISM (72%); TWEENS MARKET (71%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (55%); OKLAHOMA, USA (51%) PHILIPPINES (78%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



730 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Anybody Seen Pati?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras 

 BODY:
 If anybody knows Pati Castillo in Houston, please tell her to phone home.
 Pati is a 30-year-old Honduran whose children and other family members live in a gang-ridden slum here in the Honduran capital. Her mother, tearing up, says that nobody has heard from Pati in two months. Pati's cellphone number never answers.
 This family's troubles offer a reminder that the most grievous victims of the global economic crisis -- triggered in large part by American banking excesses -- aren't just Americans. They include residents of slums and villages in places like Haiti, Honduras and El Salvador -- people who had nothing to do with derivatives or subprime mortgages. 
 The United Nations calculates that because of the economic crisis and continuing high food prices, the number of people going hungry around the world has risen to about one billion. Often, they include the 13 members of Pati's family here.
 The family members, including Pati's four children, live in a one-room home on a steep hillside in the El Pastel slum. When I arrived a week ago, gang members were selling drugs on the street. And when I left, a boy was sniffing glue outside. Gang members have set up checkpoints and demand payment of a ''war tax'' to pass.
 (A local priest, the Rev. Augustin Vasquez, escorted me in and glared his way through one gang checkpoint. ''You ask money from a priest?'' he asked indignantly. And he charged on through. Final score: God, 1; gangsters, 0.)
 Pati's mother, Iris, has a job at a music school that brings in about $100 a month, after commuting expenses. But that isn't enough to keep everyone fed and clothed. So three years ago, Pati decided to sacrifice for her children's future: She set out across Central America and Mexico for the United States.
 After what her mother described as a brutal journey, Pati reached Houston. She found a job as a waitress in a restaurant there and shared a cheap apartment with several other Central American women. Every month, her mom said, she sent home $200 through Western Union.
 With this regular windfall, the Castillo family began to live a better life -- and overextended themselves. They bought a stove and refrigerator on an installment plan, assuming that Pati's money transfers would continue indefinitely. ''That was a big mistake,'' Iris admits ruefully.
 Then the economic crisis hit, and jobs began to disappear worldwide. Honduran, Salvadoran and Mexican garment factories that export to the American markets were crushed. Remittances, which amounted to about 22 percent of the Honduran economy, tumbled.
 Pati lost her job in June. As an illegal immigrant, she found it impossible to find a new one, so she stopped wiring money home. ''My daughter decided she will probably have to come back by herself,'' Iris explained.
 The last anybody heard from Pati was two months ago. Maybe she couldn't afford her cellphone anymore; maybe she is en route back home; or maybe desperation pushed her to try something unsavory and to take risks -- although her mom doesn't believe that. ''She's well brought up,'' Iris said. ''I don't think that she would do anything bad.''
 In the meantime, the Castillos are adjusting to a two-thirds drop in family income. They are bracing themselves for their stove and refrigerator to be repossessed, and they have cut back sharply on food. The adults and older kids get just beans and rice; only Pati's baby niece gets milk; and the younger children get a few eggs for protein.
 ''Sometimes the kids go hungry, but I work as hard as I can to prevent that,'' Iris said grimly.
 Father Vasquez confirmed the Castillos' story and said it is common since the fall in remittances and the collapse in the economy (in Honduras's case, greatly aggravated by political instability after a coup last summer). ''The recession in the U.S. is felt at a grass-roots level here,'' he said. ''I see a lot of kids who don't get breakfast now before going to school.'' Many children cope, he said, by sniffing glue.
 Similar dramas are playing out in slums and villages around the world. In Haiti, I've seen a school nearly emptied of children because remittances stopped coming from relatives in Miami. 
 ''One-sixth of the people on earth are hungry,'' said Josette Sheeran, director of the United Nations World Food Program. ''We're seeing epidemics of child malnutrition.''
 Ms. Sheeran notes that evidence has mounted that babies who are malnourished in their first two years of life are likely to suffer lifelong intellectual impairments that later feeding can never overcome. 
 Yet just as global needs are surging, the crisis is causing a faltering in the commitment to help.
 So, Pati, wherever you are, good luck finding a job -- and call home. Your family, and so many others, need comfort and help. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); WIRE TRANSFERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); DISMISSALS (63%); FOOD PRICES (54%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (54%); SUBPRIME LENDING (54%); APPAREL MFG (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONDURAS (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); EL SALVADOR (79%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



731 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Indonesian Project Shows Obstacles After Tsunami

BYLINE: By PETER GELLING

DATELINE: BANDA ACEH, Indonesia 

 BODY:
It resembles no other road in Indonesia: mile after mile of superb blacktop running flat and smooth south from this provincial capital, with bridges that bear gleaming emblems of foreign donors. 
 But long before the end of the planned 93-mile route, the roadway halts at a partly constructed bridge over a river. Local residents operate a raft to ferry vehicles from one shore to the other.
 The project is in many ways an apt testament to the extraordinary reconstruction effort mounted here after the tsunami that struck five years ago, slamming 13 countries and killing about 226,000 people. This province, Aceh, bore the brunt of the catastrophe: an estimated 170,000 people were killed, including 35,000 whose bodies were never found. 
 Since then, more than 800 nongovernmental organizations, multilateral agencies and donor countries have spent $6.7 billion here to build homes, schools, clinics and roads. But they have had to contend with many more obstacles than most suspected, including lagging coordination, local resentment, obscured questions of land ownership and the remains of a 30-year separatist conflict. 
 ''There have been so many issues,'' said Wahyu Purnama, construction manager for Wika, the Indonesian contractor hired by the United States Agency for International Development, to build the road from Banda Aceh. ''I have worked on foreign projects all over the country, some very big projects, including major roads. But I have never seen anything like this.''
 The United States had high hopes for the project -- a $250-million highway along a chunk of Aceh's magnificent western coast that would reconnect displaced communities to the outside world. American officials foresaw a showcase for Western engineering and a better profile in a conservative Muslim area isolated by the civil war. 
 The Indonesian government saw the project as vital both to immediate reconstruction and to Aceh's economic development for decades to come.
 And indeed, the successes are many. 
 ''The new road has made getting around so much easier,'' said Romi, 42, who lost his wife and his house in the tsunami and now sells fish to people visiting the river near his new home in a small village an hour west of Banda Aceh. Like most Indonesians, he uses one name.
 ''Before the road, this area was totally isolated,'' he said. ''But now people can drive an hour from Banda Aceh to sit by the river and have picnics.''
 Before the tsunami, he said, very few people traveled to his village because of the fighting and the many military checkpoints along the old meandering road between his home and the provincial capital.
 Mr. Romi's new house lies hundreds of yards inland from where his old one had stood near the water. It is one of several hundred, all identical and bearing the names of their builders -- Mercy Corps, Oxfam, International Red Cross. The village also has a new schoolhouse, mosque and clinic.
 ''It's difficult for me emotionally,'' he said. ''But I got married again and have a new home. And I have a job. These things help me to move on. Nothing will ever be the same, but things are getting better.'' 
 But some villagers along the route, unhappy with payments they have or have not received for their land, continue to resist the project, erecting blockades of barbed wire and boulders to obstruct traffic and further construction. 
 The Agency for International Development ''just said, 'This is where the road will go,' without consulting much with us,'' said a 38-year-old man named Ilias, sipping coffee by a food stall in Leupung, a town near Banda Aceh. 
 He added: ''Sometimes they planned for the road to go through cemeteries. We were angry.''
 The usefulness of the road, though, helped change attitudes. ''Now that this section is finished, I think most people are happy,'' he said. ''I mean, we can go to Banda Aceh now in half the time we could before.'' 
 Land acquisition was a major problem, for the road project as well as for many others. 
 Throughout the province, 140,000 houses have been built, along with 1,700 schools, almost 1,000 government buildings, 36 airports and seaports and 2,300 miles of road, according to the Agency for the Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Aceh. But in many cases construction was delayed for months or even years because land titles were lost in the tsunami or never existed. The owners of many properties who did have documentation were killed in the tsunami. 
 Before the governor's office could begin buying the land for the road, A.I.D. surveyed the planned route and determined that 3,280 parcels would need to be bought. There were disputes over the value of properties that had been ravaged by the tsunami. 
 Contractors and agency officials continue to spend their days traveling the planned route, dismantling barricades and negotiating with communities.
 A peace agreement negotiated and sealed in the months after the tsunami struck ended the civil war, creating a new political reality and unexpected challenges. 
 The peace agreement allowed, for the first time ever in Indonesia, local political parties to contest provincial elections. An election in 2006 put a former rebel leader into the governor's seat. Last April, Partai Aceh, the political vehicle of the former separatist movement, swept the election for the provincial legislature.
 As part of the broader effort to help reintegrate former combatants into society, A.I.D. has hired several of them as subcontractors to supply materials or to plant sod embankments. But extortion is a constant problem.
 ''I'll ask for a certain amount of material, and they'll show up with twice the amount we need,'' said Mr. Purnama, the construction manager on the bridge project, shaking his head in disbelief. ''We have no choice but to pay or they'll block the road and disrupt construction.''
 Mr. Purnama said the former rebels, many of whom were hiding in the mountainous jungle before the peace agreement, also fought among themselves for jobs.
 ''One group will come to me and ask me to get rid of the other group,'' he said. ''It is a constant discussion, endless meetings with everyone involved. It takes a lot of time.''
 Despite all, A.I.D. officials said they were hopeful that the entire road would be completed within 18 months. Over the past five years, they said, they have learned how to operate in Aceh's politically and culturally sensitive communities.
 Nowadays, a dispute tends to be solved in a matter of hours, rather than the days or even weeks it took the Americans in the early going. The Acehnese provincial government has begun to help expedite the project, sending the police to mediate disputes and take down barricades.
 Walter North, mission director for A.I.D., remains optimistic about the future of the region, envisioning an economic rebirth and maybe even a vibrant tourism industry along Aceh's west coast served by the new road, which is less than half complete. ''We are making progress,'' he said, ''and, in the end, I think people will be proud.''
 But he also acknowledged the scale of the obstacles his project had had to face. 
 ''There have been incredible challenges,'' Mr. North said. ''I think in the beginning we felt that if the international community could respond the way it did and that peace could come out of this immense disaster, then such spirit would make building a road a snap. But life turned out to be a little more complicated.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers constructed a bridge truss this month southwest of Banda Aceh, part of an ambitious road project in Indonesia that is advancing slowly five years after a tsunami devastated the area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FAUZAN IJAZAH FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENGINEERING (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CIVIL WAR (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CONSERVATISM (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (94%) INDONESIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



732 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: To Believe Despite the Odds

 BODY:
MY mother had my sister at 15 and me at 17. She raised us by herself when my father went to jail. We lived in the South Bronx. People assumed she'd never be able to achieve in life and neither would we. But my mother never stopped going to school. She took us with her to her classes at Hunter College. 
 In the 1970s, she fought for financial aid for college students in need. People would come to our house and make banners to protest one thing or another. When she got arrested, I saw her on the news. Her example made me believe that I could achieve what I set out to do. I also thought that my life should be about service. 
 My mother sent my sister and me to the North Bronx for middle school because she was not satisfied with the school in the South Bronx. We commuted an hour and a half each way. 
 I joined a tennis program in the neighborhood sponsored by Coca-Cola and was featured on Phil Donahue's show. An executive with the program suggested that I go to the George School, a private school near Philadelphia. My sister and I both got full scholarships.
 I skipped a couple of grades in school and enrolled in Columbia University at age 16 to study history and sociology. I helped found the Pan African House on campus and was also an executive of the Black Students' Organization. One year, we protested over Columbia's investing in organizations in South Africa.
 While in college, I worked part time at The New York Times and, after graduation, worked in its Washington bureau for a year. Many of my classmates had gone to law school, however, and I decided to follow the herd. 
 Law school at Columbia allowed me to hone my critical-thinking skills and taught me about corporate law. It also opened my eyes to economic empowerment issues. I see economic empowerment as the next phase of the civil rights movement -- giving neighborhoods equal access to capital, which will allow them to develop a strong economic base.
 One summer, I worked for the Legal Aid Society, and another summer, for a New York law firm. When I got my law degree, I joined the law firm, which had only a handful of women as associates and a couple of female partners out of about 75. I was the second black woman hired.
 I learned a lot about business and negotiating complex transactions during the five years I worked there, but I realized that I wanted to use my skills for the betterment of my community someday. I moved to another law firm and learned more about private equity and other resources that businesses could use to grow and develop. 
 Next I worked at a start-up and saw firsthand a minority company's challenges in raising capital. In the 1990s, Harlem underwent a gentrification, and in 2002, the Abyssinian Development Corporation hired me as chief operating officer to help develop the community further. I was promoted to C.E.O. later that year.
 We've completed numerous development projects, providing housing and educational and other services. In 2004, we helped more than 200 families living in the Ennis Francis Houses. Once the government contract expired, the building could have been sold to a private contractor for the market rate. But the entire housing project was terribly rundown. There was so much mold and mildew that mushrooms were growing out of carpets and the walls looked as if they were covered in fur. The sewage line had collapsed. We bought the building and totally rehabilitated it.
 Harlem can teach other cities that if they identify their strengths and build on them, they can achieve their goals. You don't need a million dollars and a lot of external things. If you wait for them, you may never get to where you want to be. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SHEENA WRIGHT: Chief executive, the Abyssinian Development Corporation, Manhattan AGE 39 LIVES IN A Harlem brownstone LAST VACATION Jamaica 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (86%); LAWYERS (85%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LEGAL AID (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); HISTORY (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); TENNIS (67%); SPORTS (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%); COCA-COLA CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%); KO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



733 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE LIVES THEY LIVED; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Reverend Ike: b. 1935: Green Preacher

BYLINE: By SAMANTHA M. SHAPIRO

 BODY:
1935-2009
 In 1971, the Rev. Frederick Joseph Eikerenkoetter II was one of the few black leaders to have headlined Madison Square Garden, but he always said he didn't want to be called a black preacher. He delivered a message of empowerment to a mostly black audience at the height of the civil rights movement and its aftermath, but he didn't care for the term ''black power'' either. ''Call me a green preacher instead,'' he said ''because the only color of power in the American economy is green power.''
 Reverend Ike, as he was known, got his start at age 14 as an assistant pastor in his father's Baptist church in South Carolina. After seminary and a stint as an Air Force chaplain, he began developing his own style at churches he set up in South Carolina, Boston and then New York City. 
 In New York, like many transplanted Southerners, he built his own church in a storefront rather than joining an established denomination or existing congregation. Dressed flamboyantly in hand-painted shirts and diamond rings, Reverend Ike created a theology on the fly. His message was derived from a 19th-century social movement called New Thought, which posited that God is a spirit that dwells within everyone and that the power to change reality -- to cure sickness or bring wealth -- lies within the mind. This philosophy has had persistent appeal; it was popularized in the 1950s by Norman Vincent Peale's ''Power of Positive Thinking'' and is the basis for current hits on the Oprah circuit like ''The Secret'' and Eckhart Tolle's writings.
 Reverend Ike's innovation was to repackage New Thought ideas for a poor and black audience and infuse them with the magic and fire of Pentecostal Christianity. New Thought seminars tended to be sedate affairs, but Ike's ''blessing and healing meetings'' were anything but. Reverend Ike had the silver tongue of a 1950s hair-tonic pitchman, and he laced his sermons with song lyrics, humor and abundant sexual charisma. He did faith-healing too, lifting congregants from their wheelchairs. Ike told his followers that anything was possible if they willed it, and that good outcomes could be hastened by donations to his ministry. He did a brisk business in ''prayer cloths,'' which he claimed could heal sickness, cure addiction or generate wealth. To his congregants' delight, he flaunted the orange tuxedo and the fleets of Mercedes, Bentleys and mink-lined Rolls Royces he bought with their contributions.
 When Reverend Ike began preaching, most black churches didn't have a tradition of emphasizing material wealth; many spoke of the rewards awaiting the righteous in heaven or about the struggle for social justice. But in a sharp departure from his Baptist upbringing, Reverend Ike told his followers they didn't have to wait until they got to heaven to get their ''pie in the sky by and by.'' They could have their pie now, he said, ''with a cherry on top!'' Ike used the language of Christianity -- sin, baptism, repentance and Bible parables -- to talk about money, signaling to his congregation that it was not poverty that was noble, but wealth. As he preached, Reverend Ike asked his audience to repeat phrases like ''Money, you love me! Money, I am calling you into my life!'' in unison, as if they were children memorizing a lesson. 
 In addition to making a show of avoiding the word ''black,'' Reverend Ike criticized the Poor People's Campaign, spearheaded by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., which aimed, among other things, to raise the minimum wage. Reverend Ike thought poverty could be attracted by your mind-set, so marching under a banner proclaiming you were poor would only be counterproductive.
 Reverend Ike quickly outgrew his first New York church, in Harlem, and later, in 1969, for more than a half-million dollars, he bought an old Loew's ''wonder theater'' that covered an entire block of Washington Heights. He renamed the theater Palace Cathedral. Originally built in the late 1920s, the theater is a jaw-dropping mash-up of architectural styles and motifs. The gilded walls are carved with images of cherubs, Buddhas, eagles, Greek goddesses and silhouettes of the Taj Mahal. Reverend Ike added more red carpet and gold paint. He adorned the stage with a giant crystal and statues of silver ''knights of the Lord'' and displayed the broken crutches and canes of the healed. In the lobby, he hung banners emblazoned with his sayings, and in the domed roof he created a white-carpeted ''prayer tower.''
 The original intent of the theater was to transport working- and middle-class patrons to a realm of fantasy, luxury and escape. It was the perfect setting for Ike's congregation, eager in the post-civil-rights era for a share of the American dream, to shout, ''I bless the rich and see myself as one of them!''
 In the 1970s, when African-Americans rarely played powerful roles on TV, Reverend Ike's sermons were widely broadcast on radio and television stations to an audience of millions. But he was not universally admired. Reverend Ike was criticized by black ministers for his attitudes about race and poverty, and for his highly elastic sense of church doctrine. And Reverend Ike-like characters were parodied and derided as exploitative in African-American pop culture -- on the sitcom ''Good Times,'' in the movie ''Car Wash'' and also on a Richard Pryor special on NBC. 
 Reverend Ike's ministry declined through the '90s, a fall that was hastened by investigations into his business practices. But his theology has prevailed. His ideas about money and his skillful manipulation of mass media are widely replicated by prosperity-gospel ministers like T. D. Jakes and Creflo Dollar. 
 A few hundred of Reverend Ike's followers still come to the Palace Cathedral for services. They also lease the building for concerts. They say Reverend Ike considered the church building to be an extension of himself, and it's not hard to see why. Like Reverend Ike's ministry, the theater reflected its patrons' desire for dignity and wealth, if providing only a fleeting taste of it. The building's architectural motifs, as eclectic as the sources Reverend Ike drew on in his preaching, may not make sense together, but they create something beautiful. The Palace Cathedral Ike built is ''fantabulous!'' as he once proclaimed -- awe-inspiring even when empty. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ALMIGHTY DOLLAR: THE PREACHER IN HIS ELEMENT, 1973. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEIL SELKIRK) (pg.MM51) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RELIGION (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (69%); FINE JEWELRY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



734 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: 'Season Of Ash'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Very few foreign novels are translated; they are rarely reviewed, and most of the time they are dismissed. Tom Bissell's treatment of Jorge Volpi's ''Season of Ash'' (Dec. 13) reaches a new level -- it is condescending not to the novel but to the reader. His report is long on mockery and short on reading. Some observations are pointless (''Spanish-language literature does not typically employ quotations marks or line breaks within dialogue''); banal ('' 'Season of Ash' is about nearly everything that has happened over the last 50 years''); meaningless (''There is simply nothing resembling prose in 'Season of Ash.' '') 
 If there is no prose, then neither is there criticism. The reader should know that Volpi writes from the perspective of three women; that the story moves between cycles of crisis, violence and destruction, including the fall of Berlin's wall, the fall of the Soviet Union and our own economic crash.
 But this is not a historical novel. It evolves inside emotional dramas and moral tragedies in order to explore the modern survival, or loss, of humanity. An apocalyptical force crosses the book among falls not of states and systems, but of models and discourses that account for the real. It is not about the past, but about the loss of future in our own history.
 JULIO ORTEGA Providence, R.I. The writer is a professor of Latin American literature at Brown University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); HISTORY (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (72%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



735 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 680 words

PERSON: Tim Costello 

HEADLINE: Tim Costello Dies at 64; Trucker and Labor Leader

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Tim Costello, a truck driver who became a labor advocate and theorist, the co-author of four books and the founder of an organization that fought globalization, died Dec. 4 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 64. 
 The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his brother, Sean. 
 Mr. Costello was hailed by many academics and labor advocates as a bona fide worker-intellectual. A genial, mustached native of Boston, he drove fuel-delivery trucks, worked as a lobsterman, founded a group that battled against the fast-growing use of temporary workers and developed close links with labor advocates in China, Italy and Mexico. 
 His most notable book was ''Globalization From Below: The Power of Solidarity'' (2000), written with Jeremy Brecher and Brendan Smith, which became a primer for labor advocates who argued that globalization was destroying jobs and reducing wages in the United States while exploiting workers in Asia. 
 During his two decades driving trucks -- he was also a long-haul driver -- Mr. Costello often used the back of his truck as a private study to read and write.
 Mr. Costello was often several steps ahead of the rest of the labor movement. In 2005, he helped found Global Labor Strategies, which fostered cross-border alliances to fight to improve wages and working conditions in the face of downward pressures from companies moving jobs overseas. In 2007, when American and European business groups were battling China's plans to adopt a law strengthening workers' rights, Mr. Costello was a leading voice in countering corporate efforts to block the law. 
 ''We called him Cosmic Tim because he seemed to be everywhere in the universe,'' said James Green, a labor historian at the University of Massachusetts, Boston, who was a friend and professor of Mr. Costello. ''He seemed to have trucked everywhere and read everything.''
 Timothy Mark Costello was born in Boston on June 13, 1945. His father was the president of a union local that represented railway car welders. He was raised in Dedham, Mass., and graduated from the Huntington School for Boys in Boston in 1964. He attended Goddard College in Vermont before transferring to Franconia College in New Hampshire and the New School in New York, where he joined Students for a Democratic Society. 
 While in school in New York, he began driving oil trucks. In 1971, he moved back to Boston, without having finished college, and continued driving fuel-delivery trucks and, as he had in New York, writing and speaking out against corruption in the Teamsters union.
 In the mid-1970s he traveled cross-country to study the recession's effects on young workers, producing a book, ''Common Sense for Hard Times,'' with Mr. Brecher, his longtime co-author.
 While in Boston, he switched trucking jobs to become a long-haul driver, often carrying loads to the Deep South and the Midwest. He enrolled at the University of Massachusetts, Boston, obtaining his bachelor's degree there in 1990. He became a business agent for Local 285 of the Service Employees International Union, which represented hospital workers and janitors.
 In 1999, he founded the Campaign on Contingent Work, which evolved into another organization he helped found, the North American Alliance for Fair Employment, a grouping of 65 organizations that opposed the growing use of temporary workers, who rarely had job security, health insurance or pensions. 
 With Mr. Brecher, he also wrote ''Building Bridges: The Emerging Grassroots Coalition of Labor and Community'' (1990) and ''Global Village or Global Pillage: Economic Reconstruction From the Bottom Up'' (1994).
 In addition to his brother, Sean, of Belmont, Mass., he is survived by his wife, Susanne Rasmussen; his daughters Pia, of Cambridge, and Gillian, of Brooklyn; and two grandchildren.
 Mr. Costello was low-key, his brother said, but he was forever battling for one cause or another. ''He thought that if you're on the left,'' Sean Costello said, ''you'll be working at it for the rest of your life, and you may not be successful, but it would be worth the effort.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tim Costello 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); TRUCKING (78%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); HISTORY (71%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); TRAINS (61%); CANCER (57%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%); CORRUPTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Labor

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



736 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE LIVES THEY LIVED; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Ben Ali: b. 1927: Hot Sauce

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL

 BODY:
1927-2009
 Ben Ali was a businessman with a plan. He gave all three of his sons the middle name Ben in case one of them ever took over Ben's Chili Bowl, the restaurant he opened in the de facto segregated District of Columbia of 1958. It turned out that two of them, Kamal and Nizam, did just that, and by the time their father died, they had long ago proved equal to the task, turning a neighborhood haunt for chili dogs and chili cheeseburgers into an internationally known business, with annual sales exceeding $5 million. When Barack Obama dropped in for lunch 10 days before his inauguration -- ordering the famous half smoke with chili sauce and asking good-naturedly, ''Do y'all have some Pepto Bismol?'' -- Ben Ali had already seen his restaurant celebrate 50 years in business. He also watched his sons open a satellite in the newly erected Nationals Park stadium and Ben's Next Door, a more upscale establishment in the building adjacent to the Chili Bowl. It serves dishes like filet mignon and crab cakes. But behind its 53-foot bar, Kamal says, ''there's a chili-dog grill so you can get one and an ice-cold beer, lickety-split.'' 
 Hey, if you've got a winning formula, stick with it, advice often repeated to Ali by his longtime friend and customer Bill Cosby. U Street, where Ben's Chili Bowl is located, was once known as Black Broadway, with artists like Duke Ellington and Ella Fitzgerald playing at its clubs or at the Lincoln Theater next door. Virginia Ali, Ben's widow, said that in those days the busiest time at the Chili Bowl was weekends from midnight until 4 a.m. 
 Although he founded and nurtured a landmark of Washington's cultural and culinary history, Mahaboob Ben Ali was born in Trinidad to a family of Indian descent. At Howard University, his plans for dental school derailed because of injuries he had suffered in a fall, but he went on to work in restaurants around town, finally setting up shop in what used to be the Minnehaha, a silent-movie house. ''He had been to a lot of lunch counters, and he thought American food was really bland,'' Nizam told me. ''His chili sauce will burn you up.'' That goes on the half smoke, a smoked-beef-and-pork sausage that began as a breakfast food before Ali had the idea of grilling it and putting it on a bun. Ben's was ranked this year by Bon Appetit among the top 10 places to eat chili in the country. Kamal, who took over running the restaurant in 1982, was joined by Nizam in 1998. They keep the recipes for the sauce and the chili con carne secret, as their father did. But thanks to their online shipping business, both items are for sale, along with the half smokes, without having to stand in line.
 In its first 10 years, the Chili Bowl ran smoothly, while Ben and Virginia had their three sons (the eldest, Haidar, a musician, performs as Sage Infinity). When Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated in 1968, riots destroyed many businesses in the district. Residents fled to the suburbs, and U Street went into an economic decline for more than a decade. In the mid-'80s, the Chili Bowl's problems were compounded by the city's construction of its subway system. Gas and water lines were often broken, and access to U Street was regularly obstructed. 
 Even so, Ali, who bought the building in the late 1970s, kept the Chili Bowl going, scaling back to one employee. ''He thought he'd ride it out,'' Kamal said. ''He was the businessman, and he could make it work at the Chili Bowl no matter what happened. He could either seat 100 people or lock it down and have it be carryout. His second career was the stock market. We had an actual ticker tape in our house ticking all day long.'' 
 Ali's third career was as a motivational speaker and teacher, certified by the Success Motivation Institute in Waco, Tex. Nizam said his father mentored hundreds of his employees: ''He would help them search for places to start their own businesses. He would always say, 'It's a coffin working for someone else, because your responsibilities and your salary are capped.' '' He laughed. ''He could also quote Shakespeare like nobody. It was almost annoying.''
 Also almost annoying, even though he had ceded daily control of the Chili Bowl, was his insistence on giving his sons directions from afar. ''To his dying day, he'd fire us both three times a year,'' Kamal recalled. ''I'd say, 'O.K., Pop, here are the keys.' '' 
 Virginia said that in the first 10 years of their marriage, she and her husband never vacationed together; he couldn't leave the restaurant. When Obama came to the Chili Bowl, the couple were actually on a cruise. Kamal said that when his father heard about the visit, he was elated. ''The whole last year or two,'' he went on, ''with the 50th anniversary and Next Door opening and the Nationals stadium opening, it was a culmination, a real crowning moment. And then, to see an African-American president. It was great for him to catch all that.'' 
 Recipe: The General Store Chili
 By Chef Gillian Clark of the General Store in Silver Spring, Md.
 3 pounds ground beef, 80% lean
 1 medium onion, peeled and finely chopped
 1 jalapeno, minced, with seeds
 3 cloves garlic, peeled and minced
 1/4 cup chili powder
 2 cups crushed tomatoes
 1 cup tomato paste
 3 (15-ounce) cans kidney beans and their liquid
 1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
 2 tablespoons dark-brown sugar
 2 teaspoons salt
 1 teaspoon black pepper
 Cornbread, slathered in butter, for serving (optional).
 1. In a large, heavy pot set over medium-low heat, brown the beef, stirring it if it starts to stick to the bottom and breaking up any clumps, about 20 minutes.
 2. Add the onion, jalapeno and garlic and cook until the onion is translucent, about 4 minutes.
 3. Add the chili powder and stir well. Cook for about 5 minutes over low heat, stirring occasionally.
 4. Add the tomatoes and tomato paste. If using a can, add about 1/4 cup water to the can to remove excess paste and add it to the pan. Stir vigorously to incorporate and let simmer for 1 to 2 minutes.
 5. Add the beans and their liquid, stirring gently so as not to break them. Simmer over very low heat for 1 1/2 hours.
 6. Turn off the heat and stir in the cocoa powder and sugar. Add the salt and pepper, taste and season as needed. Serve with buttered cornbread if desired. 
 Serves 8.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OBAMA ATE HERE: THE SUPER(CHILI) BOWL, AROUND 1960. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM NIZAM ALI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); BEEF (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); PORK (70%); FILM (69%); BEER & ALE (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



737 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Momentum in South Harlem

BYLINE: By IRWIN ARIEFF

 BODY:
A MINI-BOOM is rippling along Frederick Douglass Boulevard in South Harlem, with the Douglass, a 38-unit luxury condominium at West 114th Street, the latest to join the scene.
 Known not too long ago for its abandoned buildings and stubborn street crime, the area now has amenities like a yoga studio and a pet day care center. 
 Heading north from Central Park, the area along Frederick Douglass Boulevard from West 110th to West 138th has long been viewed as ripe for renewal. Several developers are banking on it, even as the recession keeps a lid on asking prices. 
 Fueled by the A, B, C and D subway lines that run beneath it, the mile-long stretch is gaining momentum from new restaurants and businesses. Recent arrivals include a Starbucks, a Dunkin' Donuts and a Chase bank. A Best Yet Market is to open next month at West 118th Street. And Starwood Hotels will open a midpriced boutique-style hotel in May at Frederick Douglass Boulevard and West 124th Street. 
 Before the recession, a high-end apartment in South Harlem was going for as much as $800 a square foot. Today, it might be $600 to the low s$700, said Stephen G. Kliegerman, the executive director of development marketing for Halstead Property, which is handling the Douglass. Other real estate professionals estimated the decline in South Harlem at 10 to 25 percent.
 ''These price points are relatively similar to downtown Brooklyn or Fort Greene,'' Mr. Kliegerman said, ''but here, you are in Manhattan.''
 While many were predicting last year that the Harlem market would slide into the $400 to low-$500 range per square foot, ''it never really came to that point'' and prices have now bottomed out and are stabilizing, he said. ''A lot of buyers who were actually pushed out of Harlem a year or two ago because prices rose so quickly are now able to come back because prices are a little bit more reasonable.''
 Adding to the area's allure are 25-year real estate tax abatements granted a number of new buildings, including the Douglass, under the city's 421-a plan, which rewards projects that set aside some apartments at reduced prices for low-income buyers. 
 The Douglass (thedouglasscondo.com), which came on the market in late November, offers one- to three-bedroom units ranging from 762 to 1,355 square feet and from $529,000 to $969,000, putting the average price in the mid s$600 per square foot.
 Amenities at the Douglass include hardwood floors, granite countertops and high-end appliances, among them washers and dryers. 
 The four penthouses have 12-foot ceilings, skylights and private terraces. There's also a shared courtyard and fitness room. Basement parking spots are being sold separately, for $50,000 each. There is a subway stop at 116th Street; Central Park starts four blocks south, and Morningside Park is a block and a half to the west. 
 During its first four weeks on the market, interest in the Douglass was very strong, even during the snowstorm last week, said Sheree Yellin Satos, the building's sales manager. ''Offers have been made on six properties, four of these have been accepted and there are negotiations on a few more,'' Ms. Yellin Satos said, declining to say precisely how many more. 
 A second luxury condo, the Livmor (livmor.com), with 73 units and the same 25-year tax abatement, is due to open officially in January at 301 West 115th Street.
 ''We have had a great deal of interest, even before the printing of the offering plan,'' said Dawn Tsien, an executive vice president at Prudential Douglas Elliman, which is handling sales for the Livmor.
 It will offer one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments from 808 to 2,100 square feet and priced from the mid $400,000s to $1.1 million or $1.2 million, some with private roof terraces. Amenities will include a yoga studio, a media room with projection TV, a children's play space and a kitchen for catered events.
 ''I consider the Franklin Douglass Boulevard corridor to be an extension of the Upper West Side at this point,'' Ms. Tsien said. ''Many years ago, some people said you couldn't go above 68th Street, and now it is even above 125th Street.''
 Ms. Tien described potential buyers at the Douglass and for Harlem in general as ''people who are perhaps priced out of the Upper West Side. It is like any emerging neighborhood,'' she said. ''People have been moving to these various areas because of the attraction of the size of the apartments and the affordability of the product.''
 The crime rate in the South Harlem area is roughly comparable to that of the Upper West Side precinct directly to the south, according to police figures. In the 28th Precinct, which stretches from Central Park North to 127th Street between Morningside and Fifth Avenues, there have been 869 crime complaints so far this year. 
 The 24th Precinct, which runs from 86th Street to 110th between the Hudson River and Central Park West, has recorded 946 crime complaints so far this year
 The Douglass and the Livmore join condominiums like SOHA 118 at 301 West 118th Street. SOHA 118 (soha118.com) is a 15-story building with 91 apartments ranging from one- to four-bedrooms. The building opened its doors in early 2008 and about two-thirds of its market-rate units have so far sold.
 The Corcoran Group, which is handling sales, shows two- to four-bedroom apartments at 1,100 to 3,400 square feet and ranging in price from $740,000 to $3 million. A four-bedroom penthouse, going for $3 million, is at 3,400 square feet said to be one of the largest condos available in Harlem at this time.
 ''At the beginning of 2009,'' said Vie Wilson, a senior vice president at Corcoran, ''the market wasn't doing much of anything. But within the last six months, six apartments have sold. There has been more interest, more people coming to see, more people making offers.''
 The emerging luxury market is drawing almost every category of potential buyer, agents said, including families, young professionals, single women, gay couples and empty-nesters seeking to move back into the city.
 ''There are probably 15 or 20 new condo or co-op buildings that have popped up between 110th and 125th along Frederick Douglass Boulevard in the past six or seven years.,'' said Eric McLendon, a senior sales associate at Corcoran. ''It is good for the neighborhood and it's good for buyers as well, and the spring market is poised to be a big one. Any buyer that comes up here is going to spend much less than in other parts of the city and get more, and these luxury buildings are attracting a wider audience.''
 ''Harlem Guy,'' a blogger at HarlemCondoLife.com, a Web site dedicated to ''all that's great about Harlem,'' calls southern Harlem ''truly spectacular.''
 ''You have new condos, new stores and new restaurants springing up,'' he said in a telephone interview, concealing his real name, he explained, to ensure that he and his fellow bloggers can write honestly.
 ''It takes just half an hour to get home from Midtown by cab or train, and it's a true melting pot, just what New York is meant to be. If you're a local, you may feel priced out or unhappy over all the recent real estate activity. But from what I see and hear, there is plenty of room for everyone in Harlem; it's a huge piece of New York.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW ON THE BLOCK: The amenity-filled Douglass condominium came on the market in late November. (RE1)
73 UNITS: The Livmore, on Frederick Douglass Boulevard and West 115th Street, is scheduled to open in January.
MODEL APARTMENT: Units at the Douglass, also on the boulevard, have hardwood floors and high-end appliances.
 91 UNITS: SOHA 118, at West 118th Street, came on the market in early 2008. Two-thirds of market-rate apartments have sold. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PRODUCT PRICING (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); PET CARE SERVICES (71%); YOGA (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (83%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



738 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: New Restrictions Quickly Added For Travelers

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD and LIZ ROBBINS; Sarah Maslin Nir in New York contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the wake of the terrorism attempt Friday on a Northwest Airlines flight, federal officials on Saturday imposed new restrictions on travelers that could lengthen lines at airports and limit the ability of international passengers to move about an airplane.
 The government was vague about the steps it was taking, saying that it wanted the security experience to be ''unpredictable'' and that passengers would not find the same measures at every airport -- a prospect that may upset airlines and travelers alike. 
 But several airlines released detailed information about the restrictions, saying that passengers on international flights coming to the United States will apparently have to remain in their seats for the last hour of a flight without any personal items on their laps. It was not clear how often the rule would affect domestic flights.
 Overseas passengers will be restricted to only one carry-on item, and domestic passengers will probably face longer security lines. That was already the case in some airports Saturday, in the United States and overseas.
 The restrictions will again change the routine of air travel, which has undergone an upheaval since the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington in September 2001 and three later attempts at air terrorism. 
 Soon after the attempt on Friday, travelers at airports around the world began experiencing heightened screening in security lines. On one flight, from Newark Liberty International Airport to Little Rock, Ark., flight attendants kept cabin lights on for the entire trip instead of dimming them for takeoff and landing.
 The limits, which brought to mind some of the most stringent policies after the 2001 attacks, come at a difficult time for the airline industry. 
 Travel has declined about 20 percent since 2008 because of the economy, and airlines have been dealing with numerous delays in the past week because of snowstorms on the East Coast and in the Midwest.
 Airline industry executives said the new steps would complicate travel as vacationers return home from holiday trips and could also cause travelers to cancel plans for flights in 2010. 
 But the government seemed to discount those concerns. The homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, said in a statement Saturday that new measures were ''designed to be unpredictable, so passengers should not expect to see the same thing everywhere.'' She said passengers should proceed with their holiday plans and ''as always, be observant and aware of their surroundings and report any suspicious behavior or activity to law enforcement officials.''
 The Transportation Security Administration, which governs security at airports and on airplanes in the United States, had no immediate comment on the steps. There also was no statement from the Air Transport Association, the trade group for American carriers. 
 Two foreign airlines, Air Canada and British Airways, disclosed the steps in notices on their Web sites. The airlines said the rules had been implemented by government security agencies including the T.S.A.
 ''Among other things,'' the statement on Air Canada's Web site read, ''during the final hour of flight customers must remain seated, will not be allowed to access carry-on baggage, or have personal belongings or other items on their laps.''
 The suspect in the Friday attempt, identified as Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 23, tried to ignite his incendiary device in the final hour of the flight while the plane was descending into Detroit.
 On its Web site, American Airlines said the T.S.A. had ordered new measures for flights departing from foreign locations to the United States, including mandatory screening of all passengers at airport gates during the boarding process. All carry-on items would be screened at security checkpoints and again at boarding, the airline said. It urged passengers to leave extra time for screening and boarding.
 In effect, the restrictions mean that passengers on flights of 90 minutes or less would most likely not be able to leave their seats at all, since airlines do not allow passengers to walk around the cabin while a plane is climbing to its cruising altitude.
 The new restrictions began to be instituted Saturday on flights from Canada and Europe to the United States. Air Canada said it was waiving fees for the first checked bag, and it told passengers to be prepared for delays, cancellations and missed connections because of the new limits.
 At airports Saturday, travelers recounted the immediate differences they experienced. Though passengers arriving from Frankfurt passed speedily through customs at Kennedy Airport in New York, they said that in Germany the security was intensified.
 ''I really was surprised,'' one passenger, Eva Clesle, said about the level of scrutiny in Frankfurt, adding that officials had inspected backpacks by opening ''every single zip.''
 In Rochester, N.Y., a passenger waiting in a security line said she had seen other passengers removed for additional screening.
 Many of Air Canada's flights in and out of La Guardia Airport in New York were canceled or delayed, and ticket agents blamed new security screenings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIRPORTS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%)

COMPANY: T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (60%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); AIR CANADA (53%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (50%)

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (60%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



739 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: A Way to Share In a Nation's Growth

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER. 
Robert J. Shiller is professor of economics and finance at Yale and co-founder and chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC.

 BODY:
CORPORATIONS raise money by issuing both debt and equity, the latter giving investors an implicit share in future profits. Governments should do something like this, too, and not just rely on debt.
 Borrowing a concept from corporate finance, governments could sell a new type of security that commits them to paying shares in national ''profit,'' as measured by gross domestic product.
 Historically, one impediment to such a move was the difficulty in accounting on a national scale: governments didn't even try to measure G.D.P. until well into the 20th century. 
 Although G.D.P. numbers still aren't perfect -- they are subject to periodic revisions, for example -- the basic problem has been largely solved. So why not issue shares in G.D.P. now? 
 Such securities might help assuage doubts that governments can sustain the deficit spending required to keep sagging economies stimulated and protected from the threat of a truly serious recession. In a recent pairof papers, my Canadian colleague Mark Kamstra at York University and I have proposed a solution. We'd like our countries to issue securities that we call ''trills,'' short for trillionths. 
 Let me explain: Each trill would represent one-trillionth of the country's G.D.P. And each would pay in perpetuity, and in domestic currency, a quarterly dividend equal to a trillionth of the nation's quarterly nominal G.D.P. 
 If substantial markets could be established for them, trills would be a major new source of government funding. Trills would be issued with the full faith and credit of the respective governments. That means investors could trust that governments would pay out shares of G.D.P. as promised, or buy back the trills at market prices. 
 If trills were issued by Canada, for example, they would pay about 1.50 Canadian dollars in dividends this year, one trillionth of the annual cash flow. The value of the security is derived from the dividend, and might be priced very highly in the market -- perhaps at around 150 Canadian dollars -- given that country's strong prospects for growth. Trills issued by the United States Treasury would pay about $14 in dividends this year and might fetch $1,400 a trill or more. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index now has a dividend yield of 2.3 percent. The dividend yield on trills might be much lower, reflecting the substantially higher long-term growth rate of G.D.P. relative to S.& P. dividends -- in real terms, 3.1 percent versus 1.1 percent a year, respectively, since 1957. 
 The market price of trills would fluctuate, reflecting the changing prospects for future G.D.P. growth, just as the market price of stocks reflects the changing prospects for future earnings growth. There is no complexity here. It is all plain-vanilla financing, though unconventional by today's standards.
 There are indications that officials in China are starting to worry about threats to their huge investment in United States debt from a possible outbreak of high inflation. The trills, tied to nominal G.D.P., would protect them. Right now TIPS, or Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, are offering disappointingly low yields, which may have to be raised to attract more investment. Trills, even at an ultralow dividend yield, would seem more exciting as an inflation-protected prospect, because they represent a share in future economic growth.
 The United States government is highly unlikely to default on its debt, but even this remote possibility would be virtually eliminated by trills, because the government's dividend burden would automatically decline in tough times, when G.D.P. declined.
 The final statement of the Group of 20 economic meeting in Pittsburgh in September pledged to ''establish a pattern of growth across countries that is more sustainable and balanced, and reduce development imbalances.'' These imbalances -- exemplified by the massive Chinese holdings of United States government debt -- might not be so worrisome if the investments were financed better. 
 In fact, issuing shares in G.D.P. might even be viewed as a policy that systematically rectifies a wide array of imbalances in capital flows. People who expect strong economic growth in a country would bid up the price of a claim on its G.D.P., creating a cheap source of funding for the issuing government. So a country with good investment prospects gets the resources at a low current cost. There would be no need for central bank machinations to try to correct global imbalances. 
 We already have international equity markets that allow international investments in private firms within countries. But these do not represent the entire economy. Corporate stocks represent implicit claims on after-tax corporate profits, which typically amount to no more than 10 percent of G.D.P. Moreover, after-tax corporate profits are a much more slippery concept than G.D.P., affected as they are by many domestic policies, including taxes, government involvement in labor disputes and even government bailouts -- as we now know very well. 
 Someday, China might issue shares in its G.D.P., too, and international investors who would love to participate in its economic miracle might put a very high price on them. That could help secure international financing of future growth without relying on the enormous government and enterprise saving that is now suppressing China's standard of living.
 PROPOSALS for securities like trills have been aired many times over the years. I argued for them in ''Macro Markets,'' my 1993 book. The Nobel laureate Robert Merton has had similar proposals. Other ideas for G.D.P.-linked securities have been advanced by John Williamson at the Peterson Institute, by a group at the United Nations Development Program, by Kristin Forbes of the Council of Economic Advisers under George W. Bush, and by Eduardo Borensztein of the Inter-American Development Bank and Paulo Mauro of the International Monetary Fund.
 So far, these proposals have gone unheeded. But the current environment may be more suitable for them. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RECESSION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



740 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Wrinkles. Plenty of Worries.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: generationb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BEAUTY favors the young. But Dorit Baxter, who's owned beauty businesses in Midtown Manhattan for nearly 30 years, says there are good things about reaching 60. ''You learn to survive bad times,'' she said. ''You develop confidence you'll come up with something to pull you through.''
 The recession of the late 1980s was her first. She owned a skin care salon, and in the beginning didn't know what hit her. ''My clients were what they used to call yuppies,'' Ms. Baxter said. ''They were disappearing, the money was shrinking and I didn't understand. I thought it was me. And then I saw stories about investment bankers driving cabs and I knew I was in trouble. I said, 'I need a new concept.' ''
 In 1990, she opened one of the nation's first day spas, aimed at professional people who didn't have time to travel to a resort, but were looking for some quick pampering -- a massage, a facial -- during the lunch hour or after work. ''Dorit was a day spa pioneer,'' said Hannelore Leavy, director of the Day Spa Association. 
 She could have been Davy Crockett and it wouldn't have mattered when the 1991 recession hit. ''I couldn't pay my rent,'' Ms. Baxter said. ''I'd wake at 3 a.m. thinking, 'What if I have to close this place.' '' But she survived by focusing on Japanese tourists; introducing a new line of beauty products from the Dead Sea; hiring a celebrity hairdresser; receiving good reviews in Time and New York magazines; and creating a $99 massage, body scrub and facial special that became her top seller.
 In January 1993, she reached the promised land, the beginning of the '90s boom. ''Phenomenal time,'' she said. ''We grew 25 percent a year,'' climbing by decade's end to $1 million in revenue, from $400,000. ''We went from 15 people a day to 50,'' she said. She had so much business, she converted her office into an 11th treatment room.
 And then ... 9/11. ''We kept waiting for the phone to ring again, but after 10 days you could see it was not going to happen,'' she said. ''People were feeling too guilty to indulge themselves. I wondered if they'd ever come back.'' To assuage the guilt, she held a 9/11 fund-raiser, with all the spa proceeds going to a victims' fund. Suddenly, a mud treatment at Dorit Baxter New York Day Spa was a patriotic gesture.
 By mid-2002, business was back, but in January 2003, a fire shut the spa for four months. Ms. Baxter rented a floor of the Habitat hotel two blocks away and set up her spa there within a week. ''I held on to half my customers,'' she said. ''Enough to keep going until we were back in our regular space.''
 And now, the Great Recession. Business was off by 20 percent in 2008, Ms. Baxter said, but the last few months, it's worse, down by 30 percent. Her most popular package during this decade's boom -- the $225, 4.5 hour massage, facial, body scrub and manicure -- is too expensive for many clients now. ''Every day we hear about more customers losing their jobs,'' she said. Spa visits have dropped to 30 a day, from 50.
 So just like in 1987, 1991, 2001 and 2003, she is fighting back. She created a two-hour $128 massage and facial combo that's become her best seller. She has embraced new-tech, offering weekday specials via Twitter (a $98 seaweed wrap for $69, a $79 facial for $49). She has visited a dozen Midtown hotels and given the concierges coupons for a free package, normally $128, in the hope they will try it, like it and send guests her way. She is busy inventing a (secret) new treatment. ''I'm very hopeful,'' she said. ''I believe things get very bad before they get better, and we are in the worst right now.''
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics could use a day spa index. In fall 2007, well before the government pinpointed the downturn, Ms. Leavy of the spa association began writing a recession survival guide. ''It hit us ahead of most businesses,'' she said. She has a contact list of 18,000 spas and estimates 10 percent have closed in this recession.
 During the early '90s recession, Ms. Leavy said, companies were downsizing and employees were loath to take vacations, fearing they'd have no job upon their return. ''So they cut their travel, but still had money, and the day spa was born,'' she said. ''This recession is different. People really do not have money to spend.''
 Customers come to escape, so Ms. Baxter doesn't bring up the outside world unless they do. And yet, even with the soft music, the muted lights, the cloth drapery, the sweet scents, the organic teas and biscotti, life's worries seep through. ''Talk to Emi,'' Ms. Baxter said. ''I can tell from things she's said, she's hurting. I'm seeing a lot less of her. She's almost disappeared.''
 ''Yes,'' said Emi Gittleman, 39, whose educational business's earnings are down about 30 percent. ''I used to buy a series of treatments, you pay for six and get one free,'' she said. ''I can't now.'' Another client, Alice Cohen, 60, a retired teacher, used to come with her mother, Joan, 81, ''four, five, six times a year,'' she said. ''Now it's one, two maybe three.'' Pat Farrell, a designer who's been a regular for 15 years, still gets a massage every few weeks, but watches for the Twitter specials.
 Ms. Baxter started tweeting four months ago. ''I was looking for new ways of reacting quickly and filling unoccupied rooms,'' she said. While her tweets have a breathless quality (''Catch of the Day. One-hour massage $59. Today only, 2 slots available''), they're not quite true. ''That's what we write to make it seem scarce,'' she said. ''If seven or eight come in, I take them all.'' In a recession, she said, the key is to keep people walking through the door, even if they spend less. 
 In a recession, it's not easy selling the most expensive house on the block, and in that spirit, Ms. Baxter has worked to keep her prices moderate by holding down overhead. While in a prime location, she's on the third floor, 11 smallish rooms off a single hallway. Her rent, she said, is a third of what it would be if she were on the street level, like the more high-end Green Spa, which was a few blocks away and went out of business last year. ''They had a beautiful lounge for people to eat and fancy decorations, things I've stayed away from,'' she said.
 ''I don't get the rich or bohemians,'' she added. ''My typical client is a professional working woman. They already have a life and I'm a small portion of that life. They want a good massage -- they're not looking to be part of a scene.''
 That would be Dr. Miriam Green, 55, an obstetrician who's been coming for a dozen years. ''I'm not interested in hotsy-totsy,'' Dr. Green said. ''I don't want a spa where people make you feel like they're doing you a favor. Dorit lets you know she needs and wants the business. That's how I feel about my job.''
 Not everything Ms. Baxter tries works. She thought bamboo massages might be the Dead Sea creams of this recession. If so, it hasn't happened just yet. ''We had one bamboo today,'' she said. ''The staff got so excited, you'd think the queen was arriving.''
 Being in business so long, she's saved money. ''I'm not as fragile as I was in '91,'' she said. ''You know it will be O.K.'' Asked what hopeful economic signs she's seen lately at her spa, she said, ''Nothing yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A CALM FRONT Dorit Baxter, left, tries to keep customers at her day spa insulated from the difficult economic times outside. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (90%); MASSAGE SERVICES (88%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (79%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (63%); FUNDRAISING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



741 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE YEAR IN PICTURES 2009; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: VII. Victories

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
The ballplayer is forever airborne, cleats sprung from the ground, right hand raised in triumph:Mark Teixeira of the New York Yankees, spare seconds after the team won the 2009 World Series. 
 Not everyone likes the Yankees. But this freeze-frame moment of yes reminds us that in a year defined by loss and hardship, victories were still achieved, often on stages small and unexpected.
 Harry Ryan, 59, nurtured a community garden in defiance of the enveloping abandonment in his corner of Flint, Mich. Ines De Costa, 76, made batches of kale soup to nourish her ailing city of Fall River, Mass.: $3.50 a bowl, with roll. Laura Dierbeck, 23, quit her job at a Blockbuster in Milwaukee and joined AmeriCorps to help build houses along the hurricane-weary Gulf Coast.
 And a group of high school musicians from economically challenged Newark, Ohio, cheered after tying for second in an orchestra competition at Lincoln Center in New York. Then, last month, they performed at the White House for the first black family to reside there. Triumph.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: It took nearly a decade, but the Yankees became champions again, beating the Phillies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE, THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); MUSIC (66%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (74%); OHIO, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



742 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Out of the Shadows

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER BENFEY. 
Christopher Benfey's most recent book is ''A Summer of Hummingbirds: Love, Art, and Scandal in the Intersecting Worlds of Emily Dickinson, Mark Twain, Harriet Beecher Stowe, and Martin Johnson Heade.''

 BODY:
BECOMING JANE EYRE
 By Sheila Kohler
 234 pp. Penguin Books. Paper, $15
 ''It is moorish, and wild, and knotty as a root of heath,'' Charlotte Bronte wrote of her sister Emily's novel, ''Wuthering Heights.'' The Brontes brought a new emotional weather to the English novel -- stormy, blasted and passionate. ''I never saw a Moor,'' Emily Dickinson wrote, as though speaking for the whole far-flung Bronte cult. ''Yet know I how the Heather looks.''
 ''Becoming Jane Eyre,'' Sheila Kohler's muted and gently probing 10th work of fiction, opens during the summer of 1846 amid the ''charmless, suffocating streets'' of industrial Manchester. The 69-year-old Rev. Patrick Bronte has come from his rural parsonage on the Yorkshire moors to have a cataract removed. He is attended by a hired nurse who raids the kitchen late at night and ''gnaws . . . ravenously'' at a lamb bone, ''grinding on a delicious piece of gristle with her good back teeth.'' 
 Less intrusive is his prim daughter Charlotte, who receives a rejection letter for her first novel on the very day her father submits to surgery, ''excruciatingly conscious of the knife's work in that delicate place.'' Charlotte is 30, single, with two unemployed and unmarried younger sisters with rejected novels of their own, ''a shiftless, dissipated wreck'' of a brother far gone to gin and opium, and an aging father reduced to ''a blind mouth.'' ''What is she to write about now, in the silence of this darkened room?''
 The spark for Kohler's novel was a line from Lyndall Gordon's biography, ''Charlotte Bronte: A Passionate Life'': ''What happened as she sat with Papa in that darkened room in Boundary Street remains in shadow.'' Gordon proposed that the crucial breached ''boundary'' was the adoption of an androgynous pseudonym, Currer Bell, which allowed Bronte to project herself beyond the confines of proper domestic womanhood. For Kohler, however, liberation comes with the sudden invention of Bronte's fictional alter ego, Jane Eyre, the dauntless and self-reliant heroine, both ''ire and eyer,'' of her second novel. ''Sitting by her blinded, silenced father, she dares to take up her pencil and write for the first time in her own voice.'' 
 ''Becoming Jane Eyre'' is narrated in a continual present, the tense of ''becoming.'' Short chapters take us back through remembered moments in Charlotte's life, spots of time that, disguised and transformed, make their way into ''Jane Eyre.'' From her days as a governess, she invents a bully for the opening pages of the novel. From her difficult period in Brussels, when she fell in love with a married teacher whom she addressed abjectly as ''Master,'' she draws the contours of ''the bigamous Mr. Rochester.'' A visit to a ''house with battlements'' yields a housekeeper's story of ''a madwoman . . . confined up here during the 18th century,'' the inspiration for the bestial Creole heiress whom Rochester has locked in his attic. Some parallels between novel and biography seem more of a reach: ''An orphan is not so far from a middle child.''
 ''Becoming Jane Eyre'' is divided into three parts, rather grandly called ''volumes.'' The first, centered on the operation in Manchester, is claustrophobic, with comic relief provided by that peckish nurse. The second opens more broadly into the world of Haworth Parsonage, where tough-minded Emily offers a fresh view of her sister. Why, she wonders, is Charlotte ''so preoccupied with her own small problems of love when her brother's are so much more serious?''
 The third section, which follows Charlotte to London after the triumphant publication of ''Jane Eyre,'' is full of satisfying recognitions. When Charlotte, the plain country girl, reveals herself as the writer behind the pseudonym Currer Bell, her stupefied young publisher echoes Lincoln encountering Harriet Beecher Stowe. ''Can this be, is it possible that this little woman is the author of 'Jane Eyre'?''
 ''Becoming Jane Eyre'' is driven by interesting questions. How exactly does a fictional character take shape in a writer's imagination? What impact can an invented character have on a writer's life? Kohler believes that writing ''Jane Eyre'' was therapeutic for Charlotte, a release from ''stifled rage.'' ''She writes, hardly seeing the words. Her toothache is better, and since she has been writing her bowels, so often obstructed, have moved regularly.'' 
 But the Brontes seem diminished in ''Becoming Jane Eyre.'' One wearies of their incessant questions and exclamations, meant to reproduce their thoughts but sounding a bit too much like 21st-century anxieties. ''Can she own these words,'' Charlotte wonders, ''which speak of the longings of a woman for fulfillment, for love, for the same rights as a man?''
 Kohler was wise to pitch the novel in a subdued mode, not vying with the passions unleashed in the Bronte novels or in ''Wide Sargasso Sea,'' Jean Rhys's excruciatingly gorgeous fictional evocation of the first Mrs. Rochester's life. She has written instead a small, uncluttered novel about sibling rivalry and the various meanings of ''publication'' for women writers in a straitened world where women were supposed to stay private. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY A. RICHARD ALLEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); CATARACTS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

COMPANY: PENGUIN PUBLISHING CO LTD (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (56%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

TITLE: Becoming Jane Eyre (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



743 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Aims To Prevent Land Grabs In Amazon

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Mery Galanternick contributed reporting from Rio de Janeiro.

DATELINE: VILA DOS CRENTES, Brazil 

 BODY:
Raimundo Teixeira de Souza came to this sweltering Amazon outpost 15 years ago, looking for land. He bought 20 acres, he said, but more powerful farmers, who roam this Wild West territory with rifles strapped to their backs, forced him to sell much of it for a pittance.
 Then someone shot and killed Mr. de Souza's 23-year-old stepson in the middle of a village road two years ago, residents said. No one has been arrested. In fact, the new police chief has no record that the crime was even investigated by his predecessor. It is hardly surprising, the chief said, considering that he has only four investigators to cover an area of rampant land-grabbing and deforestation the size of Austria. 
 ''We are being massacred,'' said Mr. de Souza, 44, who leads the local residents' association. ''We just want to work and raise our children.''
 It has been this way for decades, residents say. Throughout this huge stretch of the Amazon, the state has been virtually nonexistent, whether in the form of police officers or clear records of land ownership, giving way to a brazen culture of illegal land seizures, often at the tip of a gun barrel. 
 But using a new law, Brazil's government is trying to impose order on this often lawless territory, and in the process, possibly nip away at a broader global concern: deforestation and the threat of climate change that comes with it. 
 For the first time, the Brazilian government is formally establishing who owns tens of millions of acres across the Amazon, enabling it to track who is responsible for clearing forests for logging and cattle -- and who should be held accountable when it is done illegally. 
 ''The government will finally know whose land it is, and who is responsible for what goes on there,'' said Thomas E. Lovejoy, the biodiversity chair for the Heinz Center for Science, Economics and the Environment in Washington.
 This county in the state of Para is the worst place for forest destruction in Brazil, and environmentalists say they hope that the new law, approved by Brazil's Congress in June, will help the government finally enforce its official limits on clearing land. 
 But it is a huge and messy undertaking. Clear ownership records exist for less than 4 percent of the land in private hands throughout the Brazilian Amazon, government officials said. Here in Para, officials have discovered false titles for about 320 million acres, almost double the amount of land that actually exists, according to federal officials. 
 And while small farmers like Mr. de Souza are pinning their hopes on the law, many larger-scale land holders say they have sacrificed too much blood and sweat for bureaucrats in Brasilia, the capital, to force new rules upon them.
 ''Everything we have today was built from our own desire to work,'' said Jorgiano Alves de Oliveira, 68, who raises cattle and grows cocoa on about 600 acres. 
 The problem began with the military dictatorship in the 1960s and 1970s, which invited settlers to occupy the Amazon but required them to clear forests to gain access to land and credit.
 Growing criticism of Brazil's Amazon policies pushed the civilian government of the 1980s to develop laws that, on paper at least, were among the world's most protective of forests. But with scant presence of authorities to enforce them, the laws did little to stop the widespread grabbing of land.
 ''This chaos of legal insecurity was the most important basis for the perverse incentives in the Amazon to pillage rather than to preserve or to develop, and constant incitement to violence,'' said Roberto Mangabeira Unger, the former minister for strategic affairs who helped develop the new land law.
 Under the law, which applies to more than 150 million acres, the government will award plots up to 250 acres free to settlers. Bigger plots will be sold at varying prices, with or without public auctions, depending on their size. Those larger than about 6,000 acres cannot be sold without an explicit act of Congress. So far, settlers have registered about 4 percent of the land singled out under the law, according to government officials.
 Since the days of the dictatorship, this huge county in Para State, known as Sao Felix do Xingu, has drawn hardy settlers and prospectors in search of cheap land, good soil, a rich array of minerals and rare Amazon fruits. 
 But notorious criminals have also found refuge. Leonardo Dias Mendonca ran a vast criminal enterprise from Sao Felix, which included a fleet of planes used to deliver weapons to the Colombian rebels in exchange for drugs, before being convicted in 2003.
 Disputes in Sao Felix were traditionally settled with ''a lot of death,'' said Waldemir de Oliveira, the leader of the Sao Felix agricultural association. ''It was the law of the strongest,'' Mr. de Oliveira said. ''Farmers put guards on the perimeter of their land and no one went in. Those that did were told to 'Get out or die.' ''
 Mr. de Oliveira and other residents say the violence is diminishing but is still a major worry. In November, a local bar owner turned the tables on four men who came to kill him in broad daylight, killing all of them, said Joao Gross, an architect in the area.
 In Vila dos Crentes, the loud roar of a generator nearly drowned out a recent meeting of residents gathered in a church. ''We are beginning to understand that we have to get engaged in reforestation and stop deforestation,'' Mr. de Souza said. 
 But those goals are clouded by the constant threat of violence. Residents said workers on a nearby farm had been carrying out a campaign of violence and intimidation to try to force them out, and even dumped a poisonous chemical from a plane over the area, killing fish and animals.
 In May 2007, residents found Mr. de Souza's stepson dead in the road, shot multiple times.
 ''No one should make enemies here,'' said Eder Rodrigues de Oliveira, 26, who said he grew up with Mr. de Souza's stepson. ''Everyone here must be humble.''
 At the closest police station, more than 100 miles away, Chief Alvaro Ikeda said killing was common here, touching a stack of files containing information about 11 suspected homicides under investigation.
 Witnesses often are too afraid to come forward. ''I cannot guarantee the witnesses' life,'' Chief Ikeda said. ''I cannot even guarantee my own life.''
 To that end, the police chief decided to live in the police station. He keeps a 12-gauge shotgun and an assault rifle at the ready.
 ''Here we do not let go of our guns,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Brazil's effort to curb illegal land seizures in the Amazon misstated the amount of land that the leader of a local Amazon residents association said he purchased 15 years ago and was subsequently forced to sell by powerful farmers. It was at least 120 acres, not 20 acres.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sao Felix do Xingu, top, and Vila dos Crentes, Brazil, have drawn ranchers and others seeking cheap land. But lawlessness has prevailed. Raimundo Teixeira de Souza, right, held the residents' card of his stepson who was killed, probably in a land dispute. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDRE VIERIRA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); DEFORESTATION (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); SHOOTINGS (72%); ARRESTS (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); CLIMATE CHANGE (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); APPROVALS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



744 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Tiger Woods, Our Year and Ourselves

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Tiger Woods, Person of the Year'' (column, Dec. 20):
 Frank Rich justly excoriated a generation of failed superathlete ''role models.'' There's nothing wrong, however, with admiring and aspiring to great deeds and virtues, and the young, especially, need such exemplars. The blame is ours for blindly worshiping mere sweaty mortals like ourselves.
 Maybe the absurd idolization of celebrities is all we have to fill the void left by the failures of our public ''statesmen.'' So many of them have provided such lamentable examples of greed, hypocrisy and egotism that the public no longer even approves of its own anointed men and women in Congress. 
 Ronald Blum Sarasota, Fla., Dec. 20, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Frank Rich's column doesn't mention the most important fictions we have been led to believe in: there are no lasting consequences to our national and personal debt levels; we can afford our government programs, and several huge new ones to boot; our global military presence and the distant wars we engage in do not create grave risks by making us an enemy to millions; and our above-average living standards can be maintained no matter how energetically we squander our capital.
 We have only begun to pay for these delusions. The hucksters Mr. Rich mentions are amateurs compared with our reckless politicians.
 Alan Braem Kendall Park, N.J., Dec. 20, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Frank Rich points out how easily duped we are by many who lead and succeed in the eyes of the press. It is we who really dupe ourselves, out of our need for heroes and our eager willingness to idealize those in positions of seeming success.
 Our psychological equilibrium is enhanced by a sense of being in the presence of ''the great.'' We create these images and put them on pedestals that have little relationship to the reality of their normal conflicted personhood.
 Tiger Woods was idealized by us, his audience. In fact, he is a normal, flawed human being, who is additionally cut off from himself and from his ability to connect intimately because of the false idealization we have foisted on him.
 Kenneth M. Settel Brookline, Mass., Dec. 20, 2009
 The writer is a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst and a clinical instructor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. 
 To the Editor: 
 Frank Rich likens the recent facts that have emerged regarding Tiger Woods's personal life to the multiple fraud exposures of the last decade, from the subprime mortgage debacle to the Enron scandal. 
 While he is careful to refer always to Woods's public image, it is implicit that Tiger Woods himself is altogether a fraud. 
 The use of Tiger Woods in advertising is based on his incredible performance as a sportsman. This is not in question. He will continue to be a model to all for his talent, his commitment and, perhaps most of all, his incredible belief in his ability. 
 His personal life is his business. His fans will continue to be spellbound by his compelling performances while hoping that he will mature into a wiser and more caring person. 
 Julie Ivory Rushbrook Brooklyn, Dec. 20, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I never heard Tiger Woods say: ''Follow me -- I am your ideal man! Vote for me and I will never let you down.'' All I know about Woods is that he is a darn good golfer and a lot of people like to see him play golf.
 He tried to keep his private life private. He did not try to fool people, as Bernard L. Madoff did. He did not steal anybody's money. I don't know that he lied to anyone, except, I guess, his wife. 
 He, like a lot of successful athletes, went to bed with a lot of pretty women and he is probably a failure as a father and a husband. But don't put him in a class of people like the leaders of Enron, who intentionally betrayed the public trust.
 Carl Barrera Stamford, Conn., Dec. 21, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I take issue with Frank Rich's opening words: ''As we say farewell to a dreadful year and decade.'' This is almost demanding thunderbolts from the sky, and shows that Mr. Rich is probably a younger man who was not alive to remember either the '30s or the war years, particularly 1942.
 The last decade, including the last year, has been infinitely better than many before; we are today a more prosperous, a more tolerant, a physically healthier society than even 20 years ago. We continue to have much to be grateful for.
 The news media are often accused of having a tendency to seek out the negative rather than stress the positive. Mr. Rich, if I may be permitted to say so, could have made his subsequent point without falling into that groove.
 Geoffrey Kean Ridgefield, Conn., Dec. 20, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Frank Rich distills an essential narrative of the human struggle to the absence of whole truth. People cannot stand too much reality, mused Carl Jung.
 This aversion has two poles: charlatans, who leverage falsehoods for competitive advantage, and their marks, blindly accepting claims to postpone conflict or assuage fear. Exploited systemically, this function of the human condition anchors group progress to the whims of a few and the detachment of many.
 Although millions suffered through economic and military disaster, most influential 21st-century fraudsters were neither challenged nor penalized. Aside from quenching the personal thirsts of a privileged few, what national problems have truly been solved? Moreover, what national problems have citizens demanded be solved? America is adrift. 
 This last decade saw the American paradigm twisted beyond dog eat dog into God bless America and let's forget the rest. Such reversed truths and national detachment will limit American effectiveness in the 21st century.
 Stephen J. Gelineau Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 22, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIK T. JOHNSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (86%); CELEBRITIES (78%); WRITERS (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); PSYCHIATRY (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); SCANDALS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ARMED FORCES (52%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (90%); FRANK RICH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (56%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



745 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SCENE STEALER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs, Hollywood Style

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif. 

 BODY:
 AT the Buffalo Club, a show business hangout here, about a dozen alumni of the William Morris Agency raised glasses of red wine under holiday lights this month in a toast that facetiously compared Jim Wiatt to Tiger Woods.
 Mr. Wiatt, the former Morris chief executive, in April merged his company with the Endeavor agency to form William Morris Endeavor Entertainment, putting many out of work.
 Like Mr. Woods, he left a lot of people feeling let down. 
 As the year ends, Hollywood, no less than the Heartland, is coping with the shock of widespread unemployment. Studio executives, publicists, agents, assistants and even the journalists who cover them have been hurt by a downturn that has no respect for glamour.
 But none seem quite as pained as the talent representatives and their underlings who were put on the street, temporarily or otherwise, by the Morris-Endeavor merger.
 The combination cost about 150 jobs -- a drop in the vast bucket of national unemployment. But the entertainment industry, after decades of nearly linear revenue growth, has been fascinated by the spectacle of power players laid low.
 Some of the displaced found new work almost immediately.
 Ramses IsHak, a movie agent whose clients include Ice Cube and Keenen Ivory Wayans, walked a few blocks up Wilshire Boulevard to the United Talent Agency, as did Rena Ronson, an expert in independent film, and Michael Sheresky, a filmmakers agent who has worked closely with Mr. IsHak. 
 Others went entrepreneurial, quickly setting up shop as ''managers'' -- career consultants who pick up fees for advising filmmakers and stars, often in collaboration with the newly formed William Morris Endeavor, which had just cut them loose. 
 So it went with David Lonner, whose prize client is the director J. J. Abrams, and Alan Gasmer, whose long list of writers and directors includes Nicholas Meyer, a filmmaker with credits, like Mr. Abrams, on various ''Star Trek'' films.
 A very few are willing to talk publicly about what they are doing. 
 ''There is an upside I don't think I saw from the beginning,'' said Todd Maginn, who had been a William Morris film agent. After scrambling a bit, Mr. Maginn was hired by Peter Strain & Associates, and he says he finds cultivating careers at a small agency better than sitting through meetings at a big one.
 ''I'm just as happy, if not happier, now than I was,'' he said.
 Tom Strickler, an Endeavor partner who left voluntarily rather than join the new agency, said by e-mail, that he had just returned from a road trip that involved climbing in the Cordillera Huayhuash in northern Peru, coastal exploration in Chile and Brazil, cricket lessons in Sri Lanka, a trek in the Himalayas, volunteer work at an orphanage in Calcutta, and an electronic music festival in Serbia.
 ''I am now beginning the long journey to start a nonprofit organization in the field of education,'' Mr. Strickler said.
 But, more often, those who lost jobs in the merger -- most of whom had been at Morris, as Endeavor and its lead partner, Ariel Z. Emanuel, came out on top -- have been tending to their damaged or redirected careers in private.
 That is very much the way in Hollywood, where a cardinal rule says: ''Never let them see you sweat.''
 Calls to a number of Morris alumni listed on the ''agents in transition'' section of the Studio System, an entertainment industry information service owned by The New York Times Company, were mostly unreturned.
 Caught briefly on the line, Cassian Elwes, who for years headed a vigorous independent-film operation at Morris, only to find himself out, said of his current status, ''I'm on vacation.'' 
 Privately, some of the Morris veterans talk bitterly of what they see as the destruction of their century-old company in a deal that gave the smaller firm, Endeavor, access to their agency's cash and cachet, while favoring some Morris partners with big settlements or substantial jobs.
 Over the last few weeks, favorite reading on the alumni circuit has been a legal complaint filed in the Los Angeles Superior Court on Nov. 17 against William Morris, William Morris Endeavor, Mr. Emanuel and others. It was filed by John Ferriter, who had been an executive vice president in charge of nonscripted television for Morris.
 Christian Muirhead, a spokesman for Mr. Emanuel and Morris, declined to comment on the complaint.
 In it, Mr. Ferriter described being pushed out of his $2-million-a-year job after infuriating Mr. Emanuel by opposing the merger, and then said he was defamed on an entertainment industry blog (not identified) that, he alleged, was fed false claims about him by William Morris Endeavor operatives.
 Mr. Wiatt, who unexpectedly left the chairman's job shortly after negotiating the merger, is described by Mr. Ferriter's complaint has having joined other William Morris board members ''in working out sweetheart deals for themselves.''
 Mr. Wiatt declined to be interviewed about the suit or his own plans.
 Now on the board of AOL, Mr. Wiatt keeps an office at Morris but is expected to move out shortly. He is said by some who have been briefed on his recent activities -- and who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid becoming embroiled in post-merger politics -- to be chagrined at having had to dismiss so many people. But he is also said to be adamant that the merger and job cuts were in the best interest of Morris, which he believed had become too large to survive in a weakened entertainment industry.
 OVER at the Buffalo Club, someone at the big Morris table suggested, loudly enough for nearby diners to hear, ''We should do this once a year.''
 But, this being Hollywood, the show goes on. And before too many months, even those who are feeling wronged may well be caught up in the next act.
 With luck, one or two might be singing the same tune as the globe-trotting Mr. Strickler.
 ''All in all -- lots of adventure,'' he said of his unexpected departure, at age 47, from the agent's life.
 ''Lots of fun.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ariel Z. Emanuel, left, the head of the merged William Morris Endeavor, and Jim Wiatt, who led the William Morris Agency before the deal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES FOR OVERTURE
 SCOTT WINTROW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); TALENT AGENTS (90%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (87%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MERGERS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (66%); MOUNTAINS (62%); MUSIC (50%)

COMPANY: WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY INC (58%); UNITED TALENT AGENCY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (72%); J J ABRAMS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SERBIA (79%); SRI LANKA (70%); INDIA (57%); CHILE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



746 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; THE YEAR IN STYLE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
IN a year when retailing flat-lined, when a flailing economy sent creative types scurrying for aesthetic foxholes, when the most indelible fashion image was of a dead man's sequin glove, a single unlikely figure raised the flag for style and its power to confound, bewitch and amuse. 
 That person is a 23-year-old New Yorker of outsized ambition and middling talents, a onetime Catholic school girl with a Duchampian show-business handle, a self-promoter so tireless she made Paris Hilton look like a lay-about; a woman so assured of her superlatively good bad taste that she was in a fetish-wear gown to meet the Queen of England. 
That person, of course, is Lady Gaga.
 If 2009 produced little in the way of enduring style phenomena, it did give us Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta, a musician whose hooky dance tunes would barely rate a second playing on karaoke night, yet who made it all but impossible to avert one's gaze from her ongoing spectacle. 
 Whether clad in a dress of plastic spheres, a monstrous Dutch Boy wig with full S & M leathers; bodysuits and stilettos and a cage that caused her to resemble a walking armillary, Lady Gaga made better use of modern media than almost anybody except the current leader of the free world. 
 Like Barack Obama, with whom she shares no connection beyond an epic Q rating, Lady Gaga billboards her inspirations. Unlike those of the president, her idols are not Beltway policy geeks or Nobel laureates, but gloriously marginal types and representatives of the cultural dregs. For inspiration, she cites the performance artists Leigh Bowery and Klaus Nomi, and the singer Grace Jones in the intensely stylized period when her image was being masterminded by the brilliant artist-Svengali Jean Paul Goude. She names David Bowie, too, or anyway the David Bowie of Ziggy Stardust vintage, which was about the last time he gave his audiences anything worthwhile to look at. 
 Lady Gaga makes no bones about assimilating the lessons of celebrities who built careers by tapping into the talents of other and even larger talents (Madonna leaps to mind). But her singular innovation on the sincerest form of flattery has been to barge right past imitation to outright larceny. 
 Lady Gaga mashes up. She patches together what she finds in the cultural image bank. She takes her own rather nondescript (but pretty) person and subjects herself to a real-time version of Photoshop, studiously and at times laboriously conjuring up an over-the-top creation built from bits of Bowery and Nomi and Jones and Bowie, but also Liberace, Joey Arias and Kylie Minogue. 
 Although Andy Warhol died just a year after Stefani Germanotta came into the world, and decades before Lady Gaga was willed into being, he was correct as usual in forecasting a time when there would be ''new categories of people'' being ''put up there'' as stars. Those people, he wrote in ''The Philosophy of Andy Warhol (From A to B and Back Again),'' would be made up of parts. And their fans, freed from the obligation to idolize a ''whole person,'' could choose which dimension of a star they wanted to love. Lady Gaga is rigged for that stardom: her persona is an amalgam of surfaces, faceted though not truly 3-D, addictive in the way video games are. 
 Like an emissary from a parallel world familiar to Second Life types, she is a real-life avatar. 
 And it is probably for that reason that designers have been so hypnotized by her image. Weary perhaps of the drudgery involved in producing actual clothing, designers were attracted to a star who thinks little of going about in outfits that hobble the body or masks that make it impossible to see. 
 Lady Gaga ''lives for'' fashion, she has said. She imagines the clothes she will wear to perform her songs in as she is writing them. She employs a team of stylists known as the Haus of Gaga. She has transformed herself into a cartoon muse who has inspired no less than Marc Jacobs and Alexander McQueen.
 Those dandelion Afro wigs at Mr. Jacobs's spring 2010 show for Louis Vuitton seemed to owe an aesthetic debt to Lady Gaga, with a scale so absurd that a viewer forgot about race, and also forgot that the models had faces or were even human in any significant way. Likewise the beast boots and Star Trek eyes and horned coiffures at Mr. McQueen's spring 2010 show, which forced the boundaries between fashion and morphology, as Lady Gaga does routinely, suggesting experiments that even the most extreme surgery addicts have yet to undergo. 
 More than an ordinary pop star or fashion muse, Lady Gaga seems closer to a gamer's creation. Her synth-pop music, with its hiccup hooks, help explain why she is rated No. 3 in Billboard's annual recap of Top Artists of the year, and why she was also termed the top new artist on that same list, and why her name is among those most often searched on the Web. But the voice without the package would equal a novelty act in a Singapore hotel lounge.
 That she is the whole package is what made Lady Gaga so hard to ignore this year. And lest anyone fail to see that the package is the message, she makes it a point to go out now and then with her hair styled in a gigantic blond bow. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UP, UP AND AWAY: Lady Gaga in a dress made of bubbles, performing in May in Manhattan. She says she imagines the clothes she will sing in as she writes a song. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
TIED UP IN A BOW: On stage or meeting Queen Elizabeth II, the complete package. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM FAR LEFT, BRYAN BEDDER/GETTY IMAGES
MICHAEL CAULFIELD/GETTY IMAGES
LEON NEAL/WPA POOL VIA GETTY IMAGES
MICHAEL LOCCISANO/GETTY IMAGES) (ST6)
INSPIRED: Marc Jacobs for Louis Vuitton, left, and Alexander McQueen, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALERIO MEZZANOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, HAIR
FRANCOIS GUILLOT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES, SHOES)
 SELF-EFFACING: A performer who is an amalgam of images, a reallife avatar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER POLK/GETTY IMAGES) (ST7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); MUSIC (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BRITISH MONARCHS (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%)

PERSON: LADY GAGA (89%); MADONNA (79%); ELIZABETH II (68%); MARC JACOBS (58%); KYLIE MINOGUE (57%); PARIS HILTON (55%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



747 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Deco Mecca

BYLINE: By BRYAN BURROUGH. 
Bryan Burrough, a special correspondent at Vanity Fair, is the author of ''The Big Rich: The Rise and Fall of the Greatest Texas Oil Fortunes.''

 BODY:
MIAMI BABYLON
 Crime, Wealth, and Power -- A Dispatch From the Beach
 By Gerald Posner
 Illustrated. 454 pp. Simon & Schuster. $27
 One has two thoughts upon picking up Gerald Posner's new book, ''Miami Babylon.'' One: The title is redundant. There are those, after all, who might argue that with the exception of Las Vegas, there is no American city as deeply silly as Miami -- silliness as measured in tales of corruption, cocaine, bouncing bikinis, pastel pawnshops and breakneck hedonism. Washington has the cool President Obama, New York the technocratic Mayor Bloomberg and media barons like Rupert Murdoch. Who personifies Miami? Tony Montana? Crockett and Tubbs? 
 A second thought is that Posner, the respected author of ''Case Closed,'' the book that (just about) put an end to Kennedy assassination theories, is slumming a bit here, which is fine. Everyone deserves a weekend in South Beach from time to time, and as it turns out, Posner is an able chronicler of the slummier side of South Florida. What interests him most is the story -- and it's a pretty good one -- of how South Beach rose from the wreckage that was 1970s-era Miami Beach. 
 The book begins in 1980 with a concise history of the Mariel boatlift, in which Jimmy Carter opened the gates of freedom to Cuban refugees and Fidel Castro outfoxed him by disgorging pretty much the entire population of his most rancid prisons onto the streets of Miami. In the second chapter Posner reaches all the way back to Ponce de Leon, and it's there that a reader, like some clairvoyant Stephen King hero, immediately flashes forward to everything that is surely on the way: 
 Henry Flagler. Al Capone. Meyer Lansky. Frank Sinatra. The Fontainebleau. Old Jews. The Cubans. ''Scarface.'' Edna Buchanan. Cocaine cowboys. More old Jews. More Cubans. Don Aronow. The Forge. Carlos Lehder. Crooked cops. Art Deco. More old Jews. The South Beach revival. Gays. Discos. Fewer old Jews. Real estate developers. Madonna. Gianni Versace. That mobbed-up Staten Island kid with the nightclubs. And, of course, Crockett and Tubbs. There must be Crockett and Tubbs. 
 Posner does not disappoint, touching every familiar bag as he jogs around his sandy bases. He's on the lookout for machine-gun firefights between Colombian drug runners, naked women begging for cocaine, and a wide assortment of vacationing Mafiosi -- enough to populate a Martin Scorsese trilogy. Along the way, Posner reminds us of a few lesser-known South Florida figures of note, especially Carl Fisher, the virulently anti-Semitic Indiana auto baron who, after founding the Indianapolis 500, wandered down to Miami and, finding a swampy barrier island across an open channel, decided to build Miami Beach. It's startling to recall that Miami itself was a backwater of barely 5,000 souls as late as 1912 and that ''the Beach,'' as Posner calls it, sprang from vacant lots to vacation paradise in the span of a few frantic years during the real estate boom of the '20s. Fisher ended up a bloated drunkard in a tired bungalow, keeling over dead in 1939.
 Fisher is a fitting pivot for the book's first third, because while South Florida may be most notorious for drug runners and corrupt politicians, the spirals of its DNA are forged of ''For Sale'' signs. ''Miami Babylon,'' in fact, is about nothing so much as dozens, maybe hundreds, of individual real estate deals. Beginning in the '70s, when the first investors began nosing for bargains among the Beach's sultry slums, Posner chronicles the ups and downs of seemingly every developer who so much as fantasized about building, leasing, renovating, demolishing or repainting any structure in Miami Beach. The area drew more than its share of dreamers, kooks and ne'er-do-wells, and some, like Thomas Kramer, a German investor who spent much of his time dodging sexual assault charges, keep one's attention for a bit.
 Unfortunately, with the possible exception of Alex Daoud, a former Miami Beach mayor who ended up in prison after the inevitable corruption scandal, ''Miami Babylon'' has no single protagonist. Characters revolve through its pages as if in turnstiles. The wide focus makes the book comprehensive but robs it of any real drive; there are simply too many Irvings and Sidneys and Naomis darting in and out, and most are developers. Dozens of builders are given their due, and in time the travails of this building blur into that building and some other guy named Pete's building, who knew this guy named Herbie, and Herbie had this problem with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and then his stepdaughter got caught with a vial of cocaine and so this guy named Joey the Nose walks into the club and pistol-whips a guy and the F.B.I. gets involved and, well, it goes on and on. And when Posner isn't going through the rebuilding of Miami Beach block by block, he gives the same treatment to the nightclubs -- Club Nu and Liquid and Boomerang and the Cave and many, many more. Several of these tales are fun enough. But when they're massed like infantry, one's eyes begin to droop.
 That said, there's value here for anyone genuinely interested in Florida. Where Posner thrives is telling the stories of the first developers and artists who foresaw what Miami Beach would become and worked against all odds to build it. There's Barbara Capitman, the activist who rallied interest behind preserving the city's Art Deco buildings, and her son Andrew, who bought a few before losing them. Everyone tells his or her own story; at times ''Miami Babylon'' feels like oral history or a very long Vanity Fair article. Northeastern Mafiosi frequently parachute into the narrative, and these stories are among the book's finest. Posner is especially good on the ''Staten Island wannabe gangster'' Chris Paciello, who with Madonna's muse Ingrid Casares opened Liquid and other clubs and set the standard for Miami Beach night life in the '90s. Every few sentences Paciello punches out someone new, then opens a club, then brags about past crimes to an undercover cop, then silently cuts his Mafia pals into some new venture. At one point, Paciello steals a neighbor's BMW sedan, is arrested, then breaks into the police yard to steal the car a second time and set fire to it. He's a memorable character, the kind Miami Beach seems to mint like nickels.
 Sadly, Paciello too eventually disappears into prison, and by the final chapters Miami Beach's main retail strip, Lincoln Road, begins sprouting Banana Republics and Foot Lockers and the recession hits and the color begins washing out of not only the Beach but also Posner's narrative. Crime is rising, he writes, along with foreclosures. In his wrap-up, Posner doesn't offer any startling insights into what it all means. ''This schizophrenic town is a maddening combination of third world ethics and New World aesthetics and consumerism,'' he concludes. ''Miami Beach is the last frontier, both utopia and dystopia.'' It's a dry little ending. One wishes he had saved the last word for Tony Montana. Or Crockett and Tubbs. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELLIOTT ERWITT/MAGNUM PHOTOS (1962)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); COCAINE (89%); BEACHES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (85%); CORRUPTION (78%); WRITERS (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (73%); CITIES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (63%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%); AUTO RACING (50%); REAL ESTATE (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (74%); STEPHEN KING (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (54%); JIMMY CARTER (54%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (90%); COLOMBIA (79%)

TITLE: Miami Babylon: Crime, Wealth, and Power -- A Dispatch From the Beach (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



748 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Taking Work Home (Even When Home Means Hawaii)

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: KAILUA, Hawaii 

 BODY:
Barack Obama is the first president in more than 20 years to escape the confines of the White House and Camp David for Christmas. But when you are commander in chief, the White House has a way of finding you anyway.
 Mr. Obama was singing Christmas carols with his family at their secluded Hawaiian beachfront getaway on Friday when a military aide interrupted with news of an attempted terrorist attack aboard an American airliner, an aide said. Mr. Obama excused himself to get on a secure telephone line installed just for his visit in case of emergencies like this.
 The foiled attack on a jet bound for Detroit served as a reminder, in case one was needed, that a president can never completely check out of the day job, particularly in the post-Sept. 11 era. The federal government moves vast quantities of staff and equipment to make sure that a president can do the job anywhere. 
 But the optics of presidential vacations are trickier, particularly in a time of war and economic trouble. Even if the Northwest Airlines passenger had not tried to set off an incendiary device, at a time when 30,000 more troops have been ordered to Afghanistan and one in 10 Americans is out of work, Mr. Obama risked sending an incongruent message by spending 10 days in a five-bedroom, 7,000-square-foot beachfront estate that reportedly rents for $4,000 a night and is on the market for $8.9 million.
 ''The president works hard day in and day out, and the American people recognize that,'' said Bill Burton, a White House spokesman. ''And I think the American people also recognize that it makes sense for the commander in chief to recharge his batteries, even though he's never fully off duty.''
 Presidents from George W. Bush on back have had aides make similar arguments, of course, with varying success. John F. Kennedy was on vacation in Hyannis Port, Mass., when the Soviets began erecting the Berlin Wall. The elder George Bush was in Kennebunkport, Me., even as he moved troops to the Persian Gulf to counter the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.
 Bill Clinton was on Martha's Vineyard when he ordered cruise missile strikes to retaliate for attacks by Al Qaeda on American embassies in Africa; he returned briefly to the White House to address the nation from the Oval Office, even though aides conceded there was no logistical need to be in Washington. Still, in addition to the more presidential setting, the return also afforded Mr. Clinton a chance to escape sleeping on the couch as he was doing in the days after admitting his affair with Monica Lewinsky.
 Few presidents were more roundly castigated for their vacations than the second Mr. Bush, who spent a lot of his presidency at his ranch near Crawford, Tex. He was there in the summer of 2001 when intelligence agencies warned of a possible attack by Al Qaeda inside the United States, and he was there again four years later as Hurricane Katrina bore down on New Orleans.
 Critics savaged him. The Center for American Progress, a liberal research organization, posted this headline on its Web site in 2006: ''Careless in Crawford: Catastrophes Gather While Bush Vacations.'' It took aim again in his last month in office as Israel waged war in Gaza: ''Bush Refuses to Interrupt His Final Vacation as Middle East Crisis Escalates.''
 The center, which is closely aligned with the Obama White House, voiced no complaint about the current president's vacation. But the conservative Web site Free Republic did. While Americans ''are still caught in the grips of the recession,'' a posting on the site said last week, ''Obama is living like a king with no criticism from the mainstream media.''
 Still, pollsters from both parties said Mr. Obama had more leeway for an island sojourn since he was born and partly raised in Hawaii. ''People recognize the president works hard, and going home for a break is reasonable for anyone,'' said Mark Mellman, a Democratic strategist. ''He's just lucky home is Hawaii.''
 Russ Schriefer, a Republican strategist, said Hawaii ''did strike me as an odd choice, considering everything,'' but added, ''I guess he gets somewhat of a pass having spent time there as a kid, and it certainly beats Chicago this time of year.''
 Mr. Obama has no relatives remaining in Hawaii since his grandmother died last year and his sister, Maya Soetoro-Ng, moved to Washington this year. But he has brought his family here nearly every Christmas since he and his wife, Michelle, had their daughters, Malia, 11, and Sasha, 8. This year, Mr. Obama brought his sister and close friends Eric Whitaker and Marty Nesbitt and their spouses.
 Valerie Jarrett, another friend who now serves as a senior White House adviser, also joined the relatives and friends staying in two neighboring rental houses in Kailua. Ms. Jarrett said the setting had a rejuvenating effect on Mr. Obama. ''His visits allow him to reconnect with his roots and cherished childhood memories,'' she said.
 His predecessors likewise established regular retreats. Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan all referred to their getaways in Texas or California as the Western White House. Mr. Bush's staff even created a Western White House seal to hang during briefings held at Crawford Middle School. But Hawaii, too, served as a Western White House, when Franklin D. Roosevelt set up shop for a time at the Royal Hawaiian Hotel in Honolulu.
 For Mr. Obama, coming for Christmas rather than waiting until after the holiday was a break from recent tradition. The last president to leave Washington regularly for Christmas was Jimmy Carter, who went home to Plains, Ga. Both Reagan and Mr. Clinton celebrated Christmas in the White House (except for 1988, when Reagan went to California), while the two Bushes preferred Camp David. Only after the holiday would those presidents leave town for vacations, a schedule that was less disruptive to their staffs and Secret Service agents.
 Since arriving on Thursday, Mr. Obama has mostly stayed out of sight, emerging from the house only to travel to a nearby Marine base for early morning workouts, some holiday greetings and six hours of golf with some friends on Saturday. 
 But he complained before arriving that his new role might restrict favorite activities like body surfing. 
 ''The Secret Service these days does not like me doing it,'' he told American Urban Radio Networks. ''The last time I tried it, they had a bunch of people out on jet skis in the water and surrounding me with all kinds of stuff, and it was a little distracting for the other swimmers. So I don't know if I'll get out there this year, but I tell you what, I will definitely be enjoying some sun.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama greeting well-wishers at Hickam Air Force Base after arriving in Honolulu on Thursday. (POOL PHOTO BY KENT NISHIMURA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AIRLINES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); MUSIC (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%)

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (67%) UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFRICA (79%); GULF STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



749 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE YEAR IN PICTURES 2009; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: I. The Inaugural

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
He swept onto the world stage with his hand onAbraham Lincoln's Bible and his voice ringing with yes-we-can hope and promise. More than a million people thronged Washington, and many more around the world tuned in by television to watch the son of a black man inherit a White House built partly by slaves. Nothing would ever be the same again. 
 Or would it? In the end, it was just that, a moment, and how long ago it now seems.
 As the year neared its close, the ball gowns had been stuffed in storage, the photographs tucked away in albums and the brimming hopefulness faded into a sense of nervous uncertainty.
 Can the man who inspired so many unify the country, or even his own fractious party? Can he provide jobs and health care while taming the deficit? Can he win the war in Afghanistan and the war against climate change?
 A year after the moment on the Mall, the challenges feel as deep as ever and the political polarization of Washington even deeper.
 But some of Mr. Obama's efforts seemed to be bearing fruit by year's end. The economy is growing again. Banks are repaying their bailouts. And his health care plan appears closer than ever to final passage.
 Should he push that through in the coming weeks, he will have something significant to celebrate again.
 The trick will be keeping the party going longer this time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Even the very young were caught up in the excitement over the election. Ariana Hossack, a preschooler, dressed up for an Inaugural ball at Crispus Attucks Elementary School in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Barack Obama striding to be sworn in as the 44th president. In his inaugural address, he said: America's challenges ''will not be met easily or in a short span of time. But know this, America, they will be met.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER, THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The president and the first lady at the Commander in Chief Ball.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER, THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Audience members watching the first couple dance at the Biden Home States Ball.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER, THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Israeli attack on the Gaza Strip left a trail of grief. Relatives burying a family member who was killed in Gaza City.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS, THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Much of the village of El Atatra, in Gaza, was left in rubble. Niam Mirdi, 63, sitting in front of his destroyed home.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS, THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Israeli soldiers in Beersheba grieved over Staff Sgt. Alex Mashvitski, 21, who was killed in Gaza.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BAILOUTS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



750 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1894 words

HEADLINE: Back From the Brink (but Watch Your Step)

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
UNLESS you're Tiger Woods, 2009 has probably been a heck of a lot better than 2008.
 Last year, most Americans felt as if they had been hit in the head by a 4-iron. Wall Street nearly collapsed. The economy plunged into its deepest recession in decades. As housing prices sank, many homeowners realized that they owed more on their mortgages than their homes were worth. Millions lost their jobs, and even those who didn't hunkered down, burying their wallets in the backyard. 
 This year -- with more than a few bumps along the way -- the situation brightened. The stock market surged, and the housing and auto markets appeared to have bottomed out. Demand for certain tech toys like smartphones, which allow people to check e-mail, surf the Web and play games, perked up. 
 The year also ushered in a new national pastime: kick the banker. Fresh off of receiving billions of dollars in a government-backed bailout, some Wall Street banks had a boom year and promised their employees huge paydays. That incensed many American taxpayers, who are worried about their own jobs and unable to refinance their home mortgages at some of the same banks they just helped to bail out. 
 The biggest target of this ire was Goldman Sachs, which found itself called a ''great vampire squid'' in Rolling Stone magazine and lampooned on ''Saturday Night Live'' for receiving early batches of the elusive H1N1 vaccine. ''These are the least contagious people in the world. They don't even touch their own car-door handles,'' an ''SNL'' comedian riffed. Ouch. 
 O.K., so maybe Tiger Woods and Goldman Sachs will be happy to have 2009 behind them. (And, unlike most Americans, they have enough money stashed away to ride out whatever happens in 2010.) 
 With that, here's a look back at five of the biggest business stories of this year -- and what to look for in the next 12 months. 
 ROADSIDE BREAKDOWNYears of losses, management missteps and declines in market share finally took their toll on the American automotive sector. General Motors and Chrysler filed for bankruptcy protection in the spring and received, collectively, tens of billions of dollars in a federal bailout. 
 In return, the federal government, which wound up with stakes in both companies, began calling more of the shots. The White House forced Rick Wagoner, the longtime chief executive of G.M. (sometimes derisively called ''Government Motors''), to resign. It also nudged Chrysler into a marriage with the Italian automaker Fiat.
 The troubles at G.M. and Chrysler gave the Ford Motor Company, which shrugged off offers of federal money, a big boost among the Detroit pack as auto sales finally began showing signs of life in the summer. 
 Still, the outlook for consumer demand for cars is cloudy. Some analysts say the uptick in sales was attributable to the government-backed ''cash for clunkers'' program, which allowed owners of aging vehicles to receive up to $4,500 in credits on the purchase of new, more fuel-efficient models. With that money now gone and many Americans still worried about their job security, some analysts say that the demand for autos will most likely continue to be weak.
 And while G.M. and Chrysler are leaner in their operations, both continue to struggle to execute their strategic visions and contend with longstanding cultural issues. G.M.'s board, for instance, ousted Fritz Henderson, a lifer at the automaker, this month, naming its chairman, Edward E. Whitacre Jr., as interim chief executive.
 ''Chrysler is still a basket case, and General Motors seems to be doing a lot of public relations. Changing the coach doesn't change the team,'' warns Gary N. Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass.
 A GLOBAL GOLD RUSH Without a doubt, gold is hot. As its price soared 23 percent this year, Americans got together to hawk their gold bracelets and rings at gold-selling parties across the country. 
 Hedge fund titans including Paul Tudor Jones and John A. Paulson, who made billions in recent years betting against the housing market and financial stocks, turned bullish on gold. And even Glenn Beck hailed the safety and virtue of gold on his program on the Fox News Channel (although some questioned his relationship with a gold coin company).
 For the last couple of years, the price of gold struggled to crack the $1,000-an-ounce ceiling. This year, however, gold zoomed past that line, hitting a high of $1,215.70 early this month.
 Now some analysts say the $1,000 mark may become the floor for a while, given a weak dollar, central banks pumping trillions into fragile economies and expanding deficits in the United States and Europe. 
 ''It's not like a bunch of weirdo gold guys are sitting around saying the world is going to come to an end,'' John C. Hathaway, the portfolio manager of the $1.1 billion Tocqueville Gold fund, says. ''Now you have people who have a lot of credibility, a history of making sound investment decisions, saying this is the right place to be. That's very reinforcing and has legitimized where gold is today.'' 
 SMARTPHONES AND SMARTER APPS Whether at office meetings or cocktail parties, the AppleiPhone grabbed center stage this year as new converts eagerly showed off the latest gee-whiz application they had just downloaded -- to the oohs and aahs of an appreciative audience.
 Introduced just a couple of years ago, the iPhone shook up the mobile device landscape and created a whole new digital ecosystem of developers clamoring to write applications, or programs, for smartphones.
 Today, smartphones are the fastest-growing segment of the mobile device market, according to Gartner, the research firm. As manufacturers scramble to create offerings that allow users to view e-mail or streak across the Web, Gartner predicts that smartphone sales could grow 9 percent in 2010.
 The question is whether Apple, which held about 17 percent of the global smartphone market in the third quarter, behind Nokia and Research In Motion (which makes the BlackBerry), can continue to gain a bigger piece of the pie amid fierce competition next year. 
 In Apple's corner is the fact that more operators around the world will begin offering the iPhone, said Carolina Milanesi, research director for mobile devices at Gartner. While the iPhone is available in 80 countries, exclusive agreements with carriers are beginning to expire. In Britain, for instance, where the carrier O2 had an exclusive agreement with Apple, the iPhone will now be available from Orange, Vodafone and even the British supermarket chain Tesco.
 Another huge advantage for Apple is its App Store, which is stocked with more than 100,000 applications.
 But Apple will certainly face its share of threats next year. The biggest will most likely come from Google, whose Android mobile operating system can be found in Verizon Wireless's new Droid phone, made by Motorola. Several other handset makers are adopting the Android system, including the Taiwanese company HTC and the PC maker Dell, which plans to sell its first smartphone handsets in China and later, Brazil.
 And unlike Apple, which puts all potential iPhone applications through a review process before they are accepted in the App Store, Google allows any developer to publish an application instantly to the Android Market, its version of the App Store. So far, about 14,000 applications are available for Android-powered smartphones. 
 Next year, the global market could become even more of a free-for-all if Google moves forward with plans to sell its own smartphone. 
 A JOBLESS RECOVERY? While it's not yet official, many economists say the recession in the United States most likely ended sometime during the summer. But few squeals of delight greeted that observation, perhaps because many economists predict that continued weakness in the job market may well damp the recovery. 
 After shrinking for a year, the nation's gross domestic product -- a broad measure of total goods and services produced -- finally expanded, at an annual rate of 2.2 percent, in the quarter ended in September.
 Other indicators, meanwhile, including industrial production figures, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and even housing starts and building permits, are ''signaling that the worst is now over,'' said Edward E. Leamer, director of the U.C.L.A. Anderson Forecast. 
 Still, many economists contend that many of the gains in consumer spending and housing this year were driven by government programs created to encourage consumers to buy. As those programs expire, consumer demand may again dry up.
 And high unemployment will still cause many consumers to curtail spending, Mr. Leamer said. The nation's jobless rate hit 10.2 percent in October -- its highest level in 26 years -- before stabilizing a bit in November.
 And unemployment rates among younger and less-educated people are running much higher than the overall average, Mr. Leamer noted.
 ''It's not going to feel like a recovery to them,'' he added, ''until they get their jobs back.'' 
 When might that happen? Lawrence H. Summers, President Obama's top economic adviser, recently predicted that the jobs picture could improve as early as the spring. Other economists say that a recovery may not occur until 2011. 
 As policy makers weigh more proposals to stimulate the economy and to finance job creation programs, some economists say there is a light at the end of the tunnel. When consumers continue to push off purchases of cars and homes, it creates pent-up demand that eventually will be fulfilled. ''Eventually'' could mean next year, but no one knows for sure.
 WASHINGTON VS. WALL STREET Last year, when several Wall Street banks teetered on the edge of collapse, their leaders rushed to the White House to receive billions of dollars in bailout money. This year, as the performance -- and pay levels -- for some Wall Street banks soared, some of those bank chiefs were absent from a meeting at the White House to receive a dressing-down, as bad weather delayed flights. 
 ''If somebody had just saved my life and they asked me to come to a meeting and it was foggy, I would take the train. I would get in a car. I would bicycle to meet that person who had just saved my life,'' says Cornelius K. Hurley, director of the Morin Center for Banking and Financial Law at Boston University and a former counsel to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. ''It's just unacceptable behavior.''
 Some argue that the balance of power between Washington and Wall Street has again tipped in Wall Street's favor. Policy makers have tried to shed light on the shadowy world of derivatives, rein in compensation levels and give regulators the power to break up financial institutions before they become ''too big to fail.'' But Wall Street's lobbying machine is again revving up to try to cut off any serious efforts to curb its size and scope. 
 A result of their orchestrated efforts, some argue, is likely to be a set of watered-down changes that have little effect on Wall Street's ways and do little to prevent another crisis that could take down the country's entire financial system. 
 ''It was Rahm Emanuel, the president's chief of staff, who told us earlier this year that a crisis was a terrible thing to waste,'' Mr. Hurley added. ''And here we are, very likely to waste it.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY DANIEL VASCONCELLOS) (BU1)
 (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); INFLUENZA (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (64%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (63%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); FIAT SPA (82%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); FSOR (PAR) (82%); F (BIT) (82%); GS (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (78%); RICK WAGONER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



751 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Tough Times Test the Bonds Between a Town and Its Railroad

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENTON, Mont. 

 BODY:
The billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett, in buying control of the nation's second-biggest railroad last month, the Burlington Northern Santa Fe, said he believed in America's future and the role that railroads would play in building that future.
 On a much, much smaller scale, the eight employees of the Central Montana Railroad say the same thing. In their case, the belief is drilled down to the grass-roots level and to the future of Denton, population 300, from which the Central's tiny, 84-mile empire extends. 
 The question facing this part of Montana, as tough economic times have stressed farming and railroading alike, is which future -- the macro or the micro -- to believe in and fight for.
 ''If this railroad goes down, Denton will dry up and blow away,'' Dennis Ayers, 38, said as he eased engine No. 1809 -- an Eisenhower-era relic, like Central's five other engines, all refurbished from the scrap yard -- into the shop building on a recent afternoon. 
 Burlington Northern officials say they understand, too, the stress that agricultural communities are under. But farmers have to survive first if towns like Denton are to have any hope at all -- and cheaper rail shipping costs are the means to that end, they said. 
 Last month, Burlington Northern shut off payments to the Central that had been locked in for years by contract -- by coincidence, company officials say, around the time Mr. Buffett took over -- prompting a lawsuit by the State of Montana on Central's behalf. Burlington officials said the payments had inflated shipping costs for local farmers.
 The big railroad has also been offering discounts if farmers bypass the Central and truck their wheat, the big cash crop in this part of Montana, directly to the main Burlington Northern line about 40 miles from here. A text-message system was recently established to alert growers to the best prices. 
 Many people have voted with their wallets. The number of railcars and bushels of wheat loaded by the Central here in Denton this year is expected to be the second lowest in 22 years, according to preliminary figures from the railroad, beating only the brutal drought year of 2003.
 ''They're competing with the rest of the world,'' said Kevin Kaufman, Burlington Northern's group vice president for agricultural products, referring to Montana's wheat farmers, who compete with growers in Canada, Australia and elsewhere. ''It's our job as a transportation provider to provide a cost-effective, efficient system so that they can do that.''
 At the backdrop of everything is Montana's tumultuous railroad history. For decades, beginning in the late 1800s, it was one of the most fought-over states in the nation, with up to five major railroads at one time competing for business.
 Now it is one of the least competitive, with Burlington Northern controlling about 95 percent of everything that moves on rail -- a near monopoly that Montana's attorney general, Steve Bullock, said made the survival of the Central Montana more crucial than ever, to give farmers a choice of how and where to ship.
 The Central Montana itself was born in the retreat of that competitive era. Its track system was orphaned in the early 1980s by the bankruptcy of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad. The state eventually acquired the line in the bankruptcy settlement and set up the Central as a nonprofit community development corporation in 1985.
 ''This is about the Central Montana and its 80-odd miles,'' Mr. Bullock said. ''It's also about the 1,800 miles that the Burlington Northern holds -- and for us to make sure that that concentration doesn't increase and we become even more captive.''
 So is the Burlington Northern a bully or a savior? And is the Central Montana a railroad of small-town nostalgia, living on fumes and the memories of a simpler past, or a linchpin of community survival?
 Like so many other stories at the frontier of economic life -- from the local battles over Wal-Mart to the debate over how big banks did or did not bring on the housing crisis -- the answers are less black and white or David and Goliath than either side suggests.
 Farms have also consolidated here over the last 25 years, with fewer farmers making more high-volume shipping decisions -- meaning that a few pennies more per bushel is a bigger consideration. Fewer farms also mean fewer people, which stresses local communities like Denton.
 ''The railroad's trouble, depressed farming, drought -- it all hits us at once,'' said Bill Phillips, the schools superintendent in Denton, where enrollment has fallen more than 30 percent over the last decade, to 102 students this year, in kindergarten through 12th grade. Mr. Phillips said that two more students were moving out before the new year.
 Wheat farmers like Richard L. Barber and Ken Glass are caught in the middle of those blustering winds, and each has gone a different way. 
 Mr. Glass, 70, seeking the best prices he can, trucks his wheat to the Burlington elevator about 45 miles from here. 
 ''I have the trucks, so it makes sense for me,'' he said on a recent morning over breakfast the Back Roads Cafe, Denton's 7 a.m. social hub.
 Mr. Barber, 66, sitting at the counter a few feet away, said he shipped locally, taking his wheat to the grain elevator here in Denton, where it is picked up by the Central Montana and transferred down the line to Burlington Northern and its ultimate destination on the West Coast.
 ''We try to do all the business we can to support the town and the community and the businesses,'' Mr. Barber said.
 Farming and railroading are also intertwined in Denton. Carla Allen, 57, Central's general manager, grew up in Denton, the daughter of a career trackman who worked most of his career on the old Milwaukee Road. But her grandfather was a farmer, she said, who hauled his wheat by wagon before the railroad first came to this part of Montana around 1914.
 Her husband, Russ, is manager of the agricultural co-op and grain elevator in Denton. Mr. Allen, sitting with a group of farmers over breakfast at the cafe, said he understood why farmers had to steer the best economic course. And Burlington Northern's new text-messaging system, he said, is a particularly effective tool in that. But he has a way to fight back, too, he said: intimate knowledge about each farmer and his or her economic situation and crop.
 ''I know who needs the money,'' he said.
 The co-op is also setting up its own text-messaging system, he added, aiming for operation by January.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FARM TOWN: Richard L. Barber, below left, takes his wheat to the local grain elevator in Denton, Mont., where it is picked up by the Central Montana Railroad, even though he was offered a discount to ship it elsewhere. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANIE OSBORNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (78%); AGRICULTURE (74%); WHEAT FARMING (74%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (73%); TEXT MESSAGING (61%)

COMPANY: BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



752 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; THE YEAR IN CARS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2578 words

HEADLINE: The Year Was a Clunker. Time to Cash It In.

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
DESPITE the bankruptcies, bailouts and plunging sales that quaked the auto industry this year, perhaps nothing sums up the misery better than this: The United States is no longer the world's top car market.
 As 2009 draws to a merciful end, J. D. Power & Associates estimates that the Chinese will end up buying 12.7 million vehicles, compared with Americans' 10.4 million purchases. How much has the market contracted? Consider that in 2000 United States sales reached an all-time high of 17.4 million.
 The slippage came despite an unprecedented effort to assist those who make and sell cars, including the summer cash-for-clunkers program that doled out $2.9 billion in government rebates to spur sales of 690,000 new cars -- while taking that many guzzling older models off the streets. Despite that program's temporary jolt, nearly 1,500 dealerships had shut their doors through October, making this the worst year for dealers since at least the 1950s, according to Automotive News, a trade publication. 
 The recession in North America, Europe and elsewhere pushed some automakers into the grave and others into consolidation or drastic downsizing. The casual consumer, who may not realize that General Motors killed off Pontiac this year, or that Jaguar and Land Rover now belong to Tata Motors of India, may need a scorecard and a spreadsheet to keep track of the players left in the game. 
 To that end, here is a rundown on the status of some brands and companies caught up in the shuffles, shakeups and desperate dances of the last couple of years, as automakers tried to keep a lap ahead of the Grim Reaper:
 ASTON MARTIN A consortium led by a British motorsports magnate -- with the backing of Kuwaiti petrodollars -- is still running this manufacturer of luxury sports cars, acquired from Ford in late 2007. Ford had exponentially lifted Aston's worldwide sales, though the recession has taken its toll on all high-end nameplates. James Bond, at least, is back in a proper Aston, driving the stunning $270,000 DBS in his last two adventures; will Daniel Craig trade up to the even more conspicuous One-77? Aston will build just 77 examples of that $2 million, 220-m.p.h. supercar this year.
 CHRYSLER GROUP This aging band of heavy-metal purveyors continued its Flame Out world tour. Ownership has passed from Germany (with Daimler) to Wall Street (Cerberus Capital Management) and now to Italy. Fiat took control of Chrysler the way people buy a Sebring -- with no money down and a nearly pharmaceutical grade of optimism. 
 Sergio Marchionne, Fiat's sweater-loving turnaround maestro and Chrysler's new chief executive, took over from Robert L. Nardelli, the former boss at Home Depot. Mr. Marchionne announced a five-year plan: Chrysler will sell some Fiats and Alfa Romeos in the United States; Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep models will combine American styling with Italian engineering; Ram, a name currently affixed to Dodge's muy-macho pickup -- it pulls three times its weight in company sales -- will be spun off as a separate brand.
 Alfa Romeos may be rebadged as Dodges in America, and Dodges may be sold as Alfas in Europe, with Chryslers offered alongside cars from Fiat's struggling Lancia brand. 
 Well, that's the plan. 
 FIAT Starving for product, Chrysler's last, best hope is a Mediterranean salad whipped up by its new owner. Replacements for marketplace bombs like the Chrysler Sebring and Dodge Caliber will use Fiat platforms, engines and technology. The Fiat 500 minicar may arrive late next year, with perhaps the Alfa Romeo MiTo subcompact to follow. Everything has to mesh and be translated to American tastes -- quickly -- and consumers must be willing to accept Chrysler's latest cultural exchange program.
 FISKER Henrik Fisker, the onetime Aston Martin designer who is now intent on turning out hybrid luxury cars, says the nation is ready for plug-in hybrids. Certainly, Mr. Fisker seems plugged into Washington: he emerged with $529 million in government loans earmarked for green cars.
 After delays, Mr. Fisker now promises that his $80,000 Karma luxury sedan, to be built in Finland, will go on sale next fall. But the federal loans are being used to develop lower-cost plug-ins, including a $47,000 sedan called Project Nina. Fisker plans to start building that car at a former G.M. plant in Delaware in 2012.
 FORD MOTOR Although Ford's sales have fallen this year, the decline was at least countered by a rising market share and a brighter public image. As the only Detroit car company that didn't hold out an XXL Tigers cap to be stuffed with taxpayer money, Ford won applause from free-market advocates -- and the right to make and market what it wants, free of pressure from government overseers.
 Ford won more praise for its Fusion Hybrid, for its new line of powerful but fuel-efficient EcoBoost engines and for a makeover that girded its Mustang against any takeover attempt by Chevy's new Camaro. 
 Reversing a long brand-acquisition spree -- Ford has given up its controlling interest in Mazda, though the companies will continue to share technology -- the company kept hacking down to its core Ford and Lincoln nameplates. It has kept Mercury around as the madwoman in the attic: alive, yes, but mostly out of sight and inexplicable. GENERAL MOTORS At the ''new'' taxpayer-owned G.M., executives enjoy even less job security than Notre Dame football coaches. 
 Three months after President Obama showed Rick Wagoner, the chairman and chief executive, the golden door, Fritz Henderson came in as chief executive, promising big changes. These changes turned out to include his own ouster eight months later. (Mr. Henderson's sizable group of defenders included his daughter, who stuck up for her dad in an all-cap Facebook tirade against Edward E. Whitacre Jr., the new G.M. chairman who took over as interim chief.) 
 Then the Buick GMC unit went through three leaders in a month. One of them -- Michael Richards, a Ford veteran who had been lured to G.M. by the vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz -- left after barely a week on the job. 
 After months of drawn-out talks, G.M. decided not to sell its European Opel division to a consortium headed by Magna, a Canadian auto parts supplier, and Sberbank of Russia. For American consumers, G.M.'s retention means Opel will continue to supply German-engineered cars and technology that will serve as the basis for Buicks (including a new Regal in 2010) and other models.
 Other moves outlined in G.M.'s bankruptcy plan also fell apart. Deals to sell Saturn and Saab fizzled. A Chinese company's effort to claim Hummer has dragged on for months.
 Still, G.M. got some $400 million by giving Shanghai Automotive a larger stake in their Chinese venture and a 50 percent share in G.M.'s Indian operations.
 HONDA Although its sales dropped in line with the industry, Honda passed Chrysler to grab fourth place in American sales, trailing G.M., Toyota and Ford. Honda's big challenge now is to revive the Acura luxury division, which has lost ground to rivals.
 HUMMER America's three-ton Quasimodo -- a monster toasted by the masses before gas prices spiked and the mobs turned hostile -- was tentatively sold by G.M. to Sichuan Tengzhong Heavy Industrial Machinery, though the Chinese government hasn't approved the deal. Though Hummer sales have plunged, G.M. said the deal would preserve 3,000 American jobs.
 HYUNDAI-KIA South Korean's automotive juggernaut kept rolling through the global economic downturn. Hyundai's cars -- already recession-ready because they are perceived as offering good value -- got a big boost in good will from the Hyundai Assurance plan, a marketing masterstroke that let owners return their cars if they lost their jobs. (There were exceptions in the fine print.)
 Hyundai raised its American market share above 4 percent this year, from 3 percent in 2008, as sales rose more than 6 percent. The Kia division did better, with sales up nearly 8 percent. 
 Through it all, the Hyundai-Kia Automotive Group quietly became the world's fourth-largest automaker, displacing Ford. The top three are now Toyota, G.M. and Volkswagen.
 JAGUAR AND LAND ROVER Ford has finished unloading its trophy import brands that were seen as saviors in the new millennium but turned out to be money-shredders. Ford bundled up Jaguar and Land Rover and sent them packing to a new parent, Tata Motors of India, leading Tories everywhere to raise a bitter glass to their dwindling Empire.
 The new owners are primping the pedigreed brands that fell into their laps. For all the criticism of Ford's stewardship, the company handed off Land Rover and especially Jaguar in their most competitive shape in decades, with modern lineups of high-design, highly desirable cars and S.U.V.'s.
 Whether these hothouse brands can earn money on top of respect remains an issue: Jaguar Land Rover promptly hung a $504 million fiscal year loss around Tata's neck -- just the sort of burden that led Ford to cut its losses and cut the Brits loose.
 MAHINDRA This Indian manufacturer has promised to sell hard-working, high-mileage diesel compact pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s to Americans. But the promised introduction dates continue to come and go with no trucks in sight. The arrival date has been pushed forward again, to February. 
 PONTIAC Just after Pontiac popped out its best car in years -- the Australian-built G8 sport sedan -- G.M. killed the brand whose onetime ''We build excitement'' pledge was tarnished by decades of poseur sporty cars (like the two-seat Fiero) and rebadged leftovers from other divisions. The brand that spawned the legendary GTO muscle car in the 1960s -- not to mention Burt Reynolds's Trans Am of ''Smokey and the Bandit'' fame -- now rules Craigslist and haunts backwater used-car lots.
 PORSCHE See Volkswagen. Also, chutzpah.
 SAAB G.M.'s bid to dump Saab, its dying Swedish brand, devolved into farce. An obscure pair of underfinanced sports car makers -- Koenigsegg of Sweden and Spyker of the Netherlands -- failed to close deals to take over the vastly larger Saab. Koenigsegg and Spyker together produced fewer than 100 cars worldwide this year.
 China's Beijing Automotive did buy Saab's spare parts and tooling, perhaps to use aging Saab's aging model lines as a basis for home-market models. But for the rest of the world, Saab -- which began in World War II as an aircraft producer for the Royal Swedish Air Force and started exporting its offbeat cars to the United States in the mid-1950s -- appears headed to extinction.
 SATURN After its celebrated birth and a promising childhood as an import-fighter -- followed by years of benign parental neglect -- Saturn shut its doors when G.M. failed to find a buyer. 
 Roger Penske, the billionaire auto magnate and racing-team legend, pulled out of a last-ditch deal to sell G.M.-built Saturns through his vast dealership chain, having failed to seal a deal to eventually import Renaults and sell them as Saturns. Mr. Penske perhaps realized that the only thing harder to sell than American Saturns would be French Saturns. 
 The September shutdown announcement stunned the 370 Saturn dealers -- repeatedly hailed as among the industry's best.
 SMART After making a pint-size splash in 2008, its first year in America, Smart's sales plunged nearly 40 percent. Smart's failure to lure customers in a recession -- despite its novelty, low price, fuel efficiency and press exposure -- suggests that the car has more in common with a shortlived fad than with the brand-building accomplished by Mini.
 SUBARU What recession? Buoyed by good timing and well-received new models -- including the Legacy, Outback and Forester -- Subaru recorded the biggest percentage sales gains in the industry, nearly 14 percent.
 SUZUKI One of two companies that often seemed to be on life support in the United States -- Mitsubishi is the other -- Suzuki could breathe easier after Volkswagen took a 19 percent stake in December. The move is part of VW's bid to supplant Toyota as the world's largest automaker by 2018. 
 TATA The automaking arm of the vast Indian conglomerate says it will bring its celebrated Nano -- the world's cheapest car in more ways than one -- to Europe by 2011, and eventually to America as well. There are even plans to make a hybrid version. The Nano, which costs roughly $2,500 in India, surprised some critics by passing European front- and side-impact crash tests last summer. 
 TESLA Leaving a trail of fired chief executives, the company's co-founder, Elon Musk, is now guiding the Silicon Valley maker of the electric Tesla Roadster. And Tesla, like its plug-in rival from Southern California, Fisker, benefited from a government loan ($464 million) to be used for its next car, the Model S. 
 That sport sedan was designed by Franz von Holzhausen, formerly a rising star at Mazda and G.M., and is to be built in a new California factory. In theory, it will be on the road by late 2011. Tesla has pegged the Model S's price at $50,000 once a federal $7,500 rebate on electric vehicles is factored in. 
 TOYOTA If misery loves company, Detroit finally learned to love Toyota. The Japanese automaker lost nearly five billion dollars in its fiscal year as worldwide sales plunged. In addition, Toyota mounted its biggest recall ever, of 3.8 million cars for unintended acceleration possibly caused by pedal-snaring floor mats. 
 At the headquarters in Japan, Katsuaki Watanabe was replaced as president by Akio Toyoda, grandson of the company's founder, but not before being publicly run through by Shoichiro Toyoda, the company's 84-year-old honorary chairman. Before a stunned audience of 400 executives, Mr. Toyoda asked Mr. Watanabe, ''How many times have you made a mistake?'' and said that Toyota's addiction to big, pricey cars and trucks reminded him of, well, G.M. and Chrysler. 
 Volkswagen GROUP The doings this year at Volkswagen and Porsche, two companies with ties to the same founding family, may help explain why schadenfreude is a German word. Porsche's chief executive, Wendelin Wiedeking, nearly engineered a David vs. Goliath takeover of vastly larger VW; his shrewd maneuvering netted him more than $100 million in annual compensation. 
 Mr. Wiedeking met his match in the 72-year-old VW board chairman, Ferdinand Piech (who is also the grandson of Porsche's founder), who refused to surrender his company or his reputation as the auto industry's top overreacher. (Mr. Piech had added Bentley and Lamborghini to the VW empire, created the white-elephant $80,000 VW Phaeton luxury sedan and revived Bugatti.)
 As the collapsing economy showed that the Porsche takeover was spun from thin air -- including $14 billion of debt that nearly sent Porsche into bankruptcy -- Mr. Piech used his backroom skills to scuttle the deal and drive Mr. Wiedeking, his archrival, into an unplanned retirement. Now, VW is absorbing Porsche instead of the reverse.
 VOLVO Even solid, safety-conscious Volvo wasn't safe from 2009's potholes. Having put the Swedish carmaker on the block, Ford turned to China for a buyer. A deal is said to be nearly final for Geely to buy Volvo for $2 billion; Ford paid $6.5 billion in 1999.
 The Volvo sale would remove the last piece of Ford's Premier Automotive Group, an awkward umbrella for Aston Martin, Jaguar, Land Rover and Volvo (and, briefly, Lincoln Mercury), for which Ford built an elaborate headquarters in Irvine, Calif. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about changes in the auto industry in 2009 misstated, in some editions, Toyota's annual loss. It was $4.8 billion, not $8.4 billion. The article also erroneously attributed a distinction to the company's recent recall of 3.8 million cars. It was Toyota's biggest recall, not ''the biggest recall in history.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CRUSHED HOPES: The federal cash-for-clunkers program provided a lift to a struggling industry, but 2009 sales are likely to end 20 percent lower. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) (AU1)
FORGOTTEN PLANET: A failed sale dashed Saturn dealers' hopes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)
IN LIMBO: Saab's only suitors were two tiny automakers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASPER HEDBERG/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
OVERSEAS DUTY: G.M.'s Hummer unit may go to the Chinese. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS) (AU2)
CHANGE AT CHRYSLER: Robert Nardelli lost his chief's job. Sergio Marchionne of Fiat got another. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GEOFF ROBINS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
TURMOIL AT TOYOTA: Katsuaki Watanabe, left, gave way to a family scion, Akio Toyoda. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATSUMI KASAHARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
TORU HANAI/REUTERS)
OUT: G.M.'s chief, Rick Wagoner, got a White House nudge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES)
AND OUT: Fritz Henderson was gone in eight months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 IN, FOR NOW: Edward Whitacre is chairman and acting chief. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (AU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); SPORTS CARS (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (60%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (85%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (58%); TATA MOTORS LTD (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (51%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (85%); F (BIT) (85%); TTMT (LSE) (57%); TTM (NYSE) (57%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (55%); ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (60%); BOB NARDELLI (50%); RICK WAGONER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



753 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1654 words

HEADLINE: Deadly Style: Bauhaus's Nazi Connection

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS FOX WEBER

 BODY:
IN the catalog preface for ''Bauhaus 1919-1933: Workshops for Modernity,'' a comprehensive survey now up at the Museum of Modern Art, the curators write about the museum's -- and America's -- last major exhibition on the subject, in 1938. That show, they maintain, offered a scattershot presentation of the Bauhaus, complety ignoring its last five years, after Walter Gropius, the school's larger-than-life founding director, had resigned. Not coincidentally, they suggest, most Americans have a limited understanding even now of what the Bauhaus accomplished or how it fit into the history of its time. 
 We think of the word Bauhaus as shorthand for ''an international modern style unmoored from any particular moment,'' the curators write, and their show, on view through Jan. 25, does a lot to counter this impression. It connects the evolution of Bauhaus art and design -- painting, furniture, glass constructions, metalwork, photography, textiles and theater design -- with the extreme social and political changes that roiled Germany during the Weimar Republic. More than 400 works by artists and designers including Paul Klee, Wassily Kandinsky, Marcel Breuer, Marianne Brandt, Anni Albers, Josef Albers and Laszlo Moholy-Nagy testify to the wealth of visions and the shifting social contexts that shaped the school up to its tragic end in 1933, when its remaining faculty members shut it down rather than work with the Nazis.
 Of course when an institution is as influential as the Bauhaus, even the most repressive totalitarian regime cannot totally defeat it. Leah Dickerman, the curator of the MoMA show with the museum's curator of architecture and design, Barry Bergdoll, points out that the Bauhaus left a particularly important ''divided legacy'' on its own home turf after the war, from the International Style towers and high-end consumer products of West Germany's economic miracle to the endless rows of workers' housing that came to define the East. 
 Until recently, however, few who have studied the school's history, including me -- I run the Josef and Anni Albers Foundation and wrote a book called ''The Bauhaus Group'' -- have been aware of how palpably its influence lived on in the Third Reich. The story of what happened after the Gestapo padlocked the last Bauhaus facility, in Berlin, has always been about flight and persecution. Most of the school's artists and artisans left the country, many for America; the few who remained, it has been thought, were Jews who did not get out in time.
 But this summer and fall at the Neue Museum in Weimar, the city where the school got its start, another exhibition told a different story, of a Bauhaus-trained painter and architect who applied the school's aesthetic advances to concentration camp design. Franz Ehrlich, who had studied with Moholy-Nagy, Klee, Kandinsky and Josef Albers, began working for the Nazis as a prisoner at Buchenwald, then continued long after his release. 
 It is impossible to determine to what extent Ehrlich was a collaborator, a victim and resistance worker, or something in between. His story is not unlike that of many Germans of the time. But that may be what is most unsettling about him for those of us used to thinking of the Bauhaus -- that wellspring of idealistism and innovation -- as a world apart in prewar German culture, untainted by Hitler's regime. 
 And Ehrlich was not alone, as a Weimar-based Bauhaus scholar who helped organize the show pointed out as I stood with her at the wrought-iron gates of Buchenwald on the city's outskirts, shuddering to realize that the lettering on them was pure Bauhaus. Ehrlich, their designer, was not the only Bauhausler to put his progressive training to work for the Third Reich, she said, just one about whom a great deal has lately been learned -- including his connection to this particularly chilling symbol of the Nazi era. 
 Ehrlich, who was arrested as a Communist in 1935, arrived at Buchenwald two years later, when the camp was still new and had only a few temporary structures. Like all prisoners there he was immediately forced into hard labor, but after two weeks he walked into the joinery workshop, declared himself an architect -- he had worked in Gropius's Berlin office -- and began to draw at a drafting table. Rather than report him to the SS, the prisoner in charge assigned him to design and build the entrance gates. 
 From then on, the Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals and others who were brought to Buchenwald to be worked to death entered on foot under Ehrilich's elegant rendereding of the words ''Jedem das Seine'': ''To each his own.'' It was a translation of a Roman legal maxim invoking the individual's right to enjoy what is his, but -- like the recently stolen ''Work makes you free'' sign at Auschwitz -- recast with a sneer, in this case as a sort of cynical ''Everyone gets his just deserts.'' The stylish sans-serif lettering reflected Ehrlich's training under the Bauhaus typography master Joost Schmidt. 
 Soon the camp commandant was asking Ehrlich to decorate and furnish his house, and the head of the Buchenwald construction office had made him its main designer. He was released in 1939 but was asked to stay on in the office. Besides being a concentration camp Buchenwald was an SS training facility and the site of a large munitions factory, and there was a lot to build. Knowing he would be paid, Ehrlich accepted. 
 Later in life he would claim that this enabled him to help the secret resistance network in the camp, but this is impossible to corroborate beyond the testimony of a resistance member and fellow prisoner, Fritz Mannchen, who, in an interview after the war, said that in 1941 Ehrlich provided details of SS construction management in the east-- meaning Auschwitz. In any case, his new position and salary clearly made life easier, enabling him to marry the woman he had been engaged to before he went to Buchenwald. 
 Ehrlich was not allowed to work on structures where high security was required -- the bunker where inmates were tortured and killed, the crematorium, the room for medical ''experiments,'' the cellar where corpses were dumped through a chute -- but he applied his skills to many housing and recreation facilities for the SS. In 1940 he created a zoological garden for forest animals, separated from the camp by barbed wire; the SS officers who enjoyed it were under strict orders ''to refrain from anything that might not be good for the animals,'' and prisoners could stare at the well-protected creatures through the wire barrier.
 Ehrlich also made a master plan for the enlargement of Buchenwald, with structures ranging from prisoners' housing, barracks and the weapons factory to a falconry and a casino for the SS. In 1941 he was transferred to Berlin, where he designed a scheme for the concentration camp at Sachsenhausen and continued his projects for Buchenwald, including the interior of a guest house for Hermann Goering. 
 Ehrlich's drawings show that much of his work was in an old-fashioned German folk idiom -- the lavish interior he made for the director of Buchenwald, for example, was straight out of the 19th century, except for the enormous swastika over the fireplace. But elsewhere the Bauhaus influence was strong, as in the side chairs, desks, wardrobes, bathrooms and a wall clock for the SS that could all have come from the Bauhaus furniture workshop. His simple, handsome vases in the style of the Bauhaus ceramic workshop became everyday accouterments in the homes of SS officers. 
 After the war Ehrlich worked for the department of reconstruction in Dresden and spent therest of his life, until his death in 1984, practicing architecture in East Germany. To the extent that he ever talked about his privileged position working for the SS during those years, he maintained that it had enabled him, in some unspecified way, to help the victims of Nazism. ''I still had the same ties to the prisoners as before,'' he told an East German newspaper ''and I helped many of them.'' 
 ''But given the overall situation,'' he added, ''it could never have come to subversive activity.'' 
 Scholars have made little effort to find others like Ehrlich among the more than 1,300 people who passed through the Bauhaus, but a few are known to history, if not to most people familiar with the school. Fritz Ertl, for example, was a former student there who became a Waffen SS officer and designed gas chambers and crematoriums at Auschwitz; he and another architect, Walter Dejaco, were tried in Vienna in 1972 on charges of abetting mass murder. They denied having known the purpose of their buildings, were acquitted and have been largely forgotten. 
 Herbert Bayer, the brilliant graphic designer whose posters and signs helped give the Bauhaus its identity, worked for the Nazis in the mid-'30s. A brochure he designed was distributed internationally and meant to lure people from all over the world to see the Fuhrer's achievements. Later in life, when Bayer was known for ski posters generated from his office in Aspen, Colo., he would comment only on the use of duotone technique and other formal elements of his work celebrating life under the Nazis. 
 Of the Bauhaus students and teachers who did not emigrate, those who are best remembered -- like the textile artist Otti Berger, the painter and bookbinder Friedl Dicker-Brandeis, the weaver Hedwig Dulberg-Arnheim and the metalworker Lotte Mentzel -- perished at Auschwitz. But it seems inevitable that with further historical research there will be more stories about Bauhauslers on the other side of the divide. The thought that anyone connected to the Bauhaus could have helped promote Hitler's regime or design its camps is distinctly painful to people who study and care about this extraordinary school, which may have something to do with why, more than 70 years later, it comes as news to many of us. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An SS officer's living room, designed by the former Bauhaus student Franz Ehrlich.
A self-portrait by Ehrlich, who worked for the Nazis as a prisoner and afterward. (A23)
Top, the Buchenwald entrance gates with lettering reading ''Jedem das Seine'' or, ''To each his own,'' by the former Bauhaus student Franz Ehrlich
 above, chairs he designed for an SS officer's residence. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE BUCHENWALD ARCHIVE) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); WRITERS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



754 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE YEAR IN PICTURES 2009; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: II. Hitting Bottom

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
If the Great Recession were a Saturday morning cartoon, February and March are the months we staggered around with anvil-flattened heads, little birds tweeting above our X-ed out eyes. We had been hit by the worst but had no idea when the pain would end. ''Not since the 1930s'' became a cliche. There were corporate write downs (like the $5.1 billion lost by Alcatel-Lucent), layoffs (like the 7,000 employees let go by Macy's) and news that the government would pump as much as $2.5 trillion into the economy. 
 We struggled to fathom such numbers and became inured to them. Allen Stanford showed up in headlines, in early February, accused of running an $8 billion financial scam, and we thought, ''Eh.'' We had other things on our collective minds, like keeping our jobs and our homes.
 We waited for good news and what talking heads on CNBC kept calling ''the bottom,'' that magical moment when the Dow would stop falling.
 It arrived in early March, just as the New York Stock Exchange suspended a rule requiring that companies keep their share price above $1 or risk delisting. Not the most obvious buy sign, no, but whatever money you threw into the market that week is now up more than 50 percent.
 Of course, you didn't throw a nickel in that week, did you? Which is why everything about February and March seems perfectly galling now, even its silver lining.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Foreclosed homes were sold at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD, THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(Upper left) Russ Gregg, a retiring General Motors worker in Warren, Mich., said a bankruptcy at the company would wreck many lives.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Celine Oezkan's parents lost their jobs and became homeless. They were living in a motel in Costa Mesa, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA, THE NEW YORK TIMES)
In a symbol of the American withdrawal from Iraq, the United States began winding down its detention operation at Camp Bucca near Kuwait. Many prisoners were transferred to Iraqi authorities.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEHAD NGA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A US Airways jet landed safely in the frigid Hudson River off Manhattan. No one was killed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY HERSHORN REUTERS)
Bernard Madoff, the Ponzi scheme mastermind, arrived at federal court in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS, GETTY IMAGES)
 In Fargo, N.D., huge piles of sandbags were amassed to hold back the swollen Red River.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN KOECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (76%); DELISTINGS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%)

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (72%); ALU (NYSE) (72%); ALU (BIT) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (72%)

PERSON: ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (68%); BERNARD MADOFF (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); FARGO, ND, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (90%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



755 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
LORDS OF FINANCE: The Bankers Who Broke the World, by Liaquat Ahamed (Penguin, $18.) Ahamed, a veteran hedge fund manager and a terrific writer, describes the world's descent into the Great Depression. He looks over the shoulders of the four central bankers -- of the United States, Britain, France and Germany -- whose slow and orthodox response to events allowed the global economy to plunge into the abyss. Our reviewer, Joe Nocera, called this a ''magisterial work'' and a ''grand, sweeping narrative of immense scope and power.'' It was one of the Book Review's 10 Best Books of 2009. 
 LET THE GREAT WORLD SPIN, by Colum McCann (Random House, $15.) ''Everything in New York is built upon another thing,'' one of McCann's characters says. ''Nothing is entirely by itself, each thing as strange as the last, and connected.'' The same is true of this novel, which won the National Book Award last month. A widening circle of characters -- beginning with two Irish brothers who move to the Bronx in the 1970s, but including an aging black hooker, a Guatemalan nurse and a 20-something artist -- are in some sense all touched by the mysterious man, based on Philippe Petit, who walks a tightrope between the twin towers one morning. The book is ''an emotional tour de force,'' Jonathan Mahler wrote in the Book Review. 
 BLINDSPOT, by Jane Kamensky and Jill Lepore (Spiegel & Grau, $15.) Colonial America on the brink of the Revolution is the setting for this ''erudite and entertaining'' novel, as Marilyn Stasio called it in the Book Review. The authors, professors of American history, capture the times by integrating newspaper reports and political pamphlets into the plot. They also adopt the style of 18th-century fiction, with one narrator, based on the roguish Gilbert Stuart, declaiming with the manly gusto of the picaresque novel, and the other, a woman who loves him, speaking in the epistolary style of the sentimental novel. The murder of a political figure, for which two of his slaves are falsely convicted, turns the novel into a mystery and raises its political temperature. 
 VOLUNTARY MADNESS: Lost and Found in the Mental Healthcare System, by Norah Vincent (Penguin, $16.) Battling with depression herself, Vincent, an ''immersion journalist'' and the author of ''Self-Made Man,'' decided to investigate the mental health system from the inside. She checks herself into three hospitals: one a Bellevue-like urban institution, another a private hospital in the Midwest and the third a center that specializes in cognitive behavior therapy that rejects psychoactive medication. Vincent's descent into real depression pushes the book in the direction of memoir rather than investigation. 
 WE TWO. Victoria and Albert: Rulers, Partners, Rivals, by Gillian Gill. (Ballantine, $18.) Gill's vivid account of Queen Victoria's marriage shows her to be a more ordinary woman than we might have supposed. Although she loved Albert, social rules made her subservient to him, and her nine pregnancies kept her an outsider at her own court. When her oldest daughter married, Victoria wept, ''It is like taking a poor lamb to be sacrificed.'' Queen Victoria's oldest son, known as ''Bertie,'' is a central figure in THE KING AND THE COWBOY: Theodore Roosevelt and Edward the Seventh, Secret Partners, by David Fromkin. (Penguin, $16). In the early 20th century, Bertie and Teddy exchanged private letters and telegrams, attempting to draw Russia and France to their side against Germany's emerging power. Fromkin's ''writing is concise; his reading is wide; his pacing is superb,'' our reviewer, Johann Hari, said, but he doubted that the relationship between the two men had much to do with the growth of the special relationship between their countries. 
 SASHENKA, by Simon Montefiore (Simon & Schuster, $15.) Based on prodigious archival research by Montefiore, the author of the biography ''Young Stalin'' and several books about Russia, this novel is full of evocative description. Its protagonist is the daughter of a wealthy Jewish family in czarist Russia who becomes a Bolshevik, marries a Communist Party official and is eventually arrested. Although dialogue is not Montefiore's strong suit, the novel conveys the power of Russian history. 
 THE REPLACEMENTS. ALL OVER BUT THE SHOUTING: An Oral History, by Jim Walsh (Voyageur, $14.99.) The Replacements, ''the little working-class band that could -- but didn't,'' as Walsh calls them, were beloved in the 1980s, especially in their native Minneapolis. Writing about them in The Times, David Carr said the band ''achieved mythic status for their off-the-hook live shows and indelible anthems about going fast to nowhere in particular.'' Lovingly drawing on interviews with friends and fans, Walsh traces the band's arc from underground success to major-label contract to slow dissolution. 
 ROADS TO QUOZ: An American Mosey, by William Least Heat-Moon (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $16.99.) Since the publication of his classic road-trip book, ''Blue Highways,'' in 1982, Heat-Moon's M.O. has changed. ''Roads to Quoz'' is about a series of short trips, taken over several years, including a circumnavigation of Maine's North Woods by car and a boat trip along the coast from Baltimore to Florida. The moseying leads to both lovely moments and some that are less so. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); WRITERS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); DEPRESSION (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); HISTORY (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); HOSPITALS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



756 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LONG ISLAND DINING BEST OF 2009; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Some Top Restaurants Are Gone, but Others Shine

BYLINE: By JOANNE STARKEY

 BODY:
THE past year has not been kind to Long Island restaurants. Everyone can list a local favorite that closed in 2009, done in by the economy. 
 Even some highfliers bit the dust. In January, they included two of the island's best restaurants: Cafe Diane in Woodbury, a sibling of Trattoria Diane and Diane's Bakery Cafe in Roslyn, which remain open; and the Polo Restaurant at the Garden City Hotel in Garden City. (The Polo remains in use for private parties, holiday dinners and Saturday afternoon tea and for overflow seating at the hotel's Sunday brunch.) Another casualty early in the year was Louis XVI, that virtual Versailles on the Great South Bay in Patchogue. And in October, the 20-year-old Mill River Inn in Oyster Bay, which had been ranked the best restaurant on Long Island by the Zagat Survey for many years running, closed its doors. 
 There are bright spots amid the gloom, though. Four restaurants reviewed this year received my top rating, either Excellent or Don't Miss. (The rating system changed last month.) All opened within the last 14 months. 
 Limani, Roslyn
 When this luxurious Greek restaurant opened in December 2008, it had everyone wondering if the recession was a myth. In fact, Limani had been in the planning stage in Roslyn for more than two years; only its opening came after the economic downturn. It is modeled after Estiatorio Milos in Manhattan, where Limani's owner, Reno Christou, and Peter Spyropoulos, its chef, had worked.
 Limani is a sparkling palace with a white marble bar and gold mica chandeliers. But nothing dazzles as much as the display of fresh fish on ice. Those lovely fish, usually lightly grilled, filleted at tableside and served with a small bowl of lemon-juice-and-olive-oil sauce, are $24 to $35 a pound. A typical dinner with wine runs about $100 a person, including tax and tip.
 Terrific openers include meaty crab cakes, melt-in-the-mouth grilled octopus and paper-thin rounds of fried zucchini and eggplant. My favorite dessert here is called chocolatina, a pairing of a warm, oozing chocolate souffle with roasted figs and fig ice cream.
 Limani, 1043 Northern Boulevard, Roslyn, (516) 469-8989, limaniny.com. Entrees, $28 to $55. Most fish are $24 to $35 a pound. Wines, $36 to $800.
 The Brass Rail, Locust Valley
 The Brass Rail, which opened in November 2008, is much more typical of places opening in hard times. Its owner, Kent Monkan, is one of the island's best chefs. He had owned a more expensive restaurant, Heirloom, at the same location. After a fire in March 2008, he transformed it into the Brass Rail.
 The Brass Rail impresses with its antique bar and bargain prices, but its wonderful food deserves top billing. Two hits among the entrees (each priced under $20) are grilled Scottish salmon served atop ratatouille with a crunchy potato pancake and spicy mustard sauce, and grilled Berkshire pork chop in a sherry vinegar sauce.
 The bargains start with a roster of small plates for $5 that include a flavor-packed oxtail sloppy Joe, fall-away-tender barbecued ribs and pigs in the blanket gentrified by puff pastry. An $11 list features a delicious king crab salad and a plate of four dainty lamb chops. Salads and desserts are all $7, and sandwich platters loaded with haystacks of crunchy shoestring fries are $15. The menu is the same at lunch, but includes free soft drinks.
 The Brass Rail, 107 Forest Avenue, Locust Valley, (516) 723-9103, thebrassraillocustvalley.com. Small plates, $5 or $11; sandwiches, $15; entrees, $12 to $32. Wines, $24 to $120.
 Amarelle, Wading River
 Like the Brass Rail, this restaurant, which opened in July, gives diners the option of ordering smaller portions at prices to match. Every dish on Amarelle's menu (except for chicken breast and suckling pig) is listed with two prices, for small and large portions. Patrons can combine them as they wish -- a boon for diners who like to taste a variety of foods and for those who feel overwhelmed by huge portions.
 Amarelle calls its fare ''contemporary country cuisine.'' It is a just-right mix of the earthy (that succulent suckling pig) and the sophisticated (local striped bass in a Champagne beurre blanc). The decor at Amarelle, like the food, is a mix of modern and rustic. A free-standing stone fireplace is the star of the high-ceilinged wainscoted dining room.
 Showstoppers from the menu include rosy slices of stuffed saddle of lamb teamed with chanterelle mushrooms, a creamy risotto laced with cubes of pumpkin and caramelized onions and served in a baby pumpkin, and French onion soup full of beefy flavor sweetened by slow-cooked onions.
 End a delicious meal here with sour cream cherry ice cream, Grand Marnier creme brulee garnished with candied orange peel or a chocolate lovers' fantasy chocolate mousse.
 Amarelle, 2028 North Country Road, Wading River, amarelle.net, (631) 886-2242. Small plates, $7 to $22; large plates, $9 to $37. Wines, $25 to $120.
 Mirabelle, Stony Brook
 This restaurant, which closed its doors after last New Year's Eve, having been open for 25 years in St. James, moved to the Three Village Inn in Stony Brook in May. It is better than ever.
 The new dining space is larger, warmer and more elegant. Service is excellent, as it has always been. The food seems even more exciting and vibrant. 
 A new lure is a $48 three-course prix fixe meal served every night. Some of the best dishes are on that menu: a lush lobster salad highlighted with fresh figs; pan-seared rainbow trout with haricots verts and truffled potato; and a juicy pan-roasted Berkshire pork chop over a ''marmalade'' of apple, bacon and endive. Desserts are equally appealing -- especially a dense-as-fudge chocolate marquise.
 Mirabelle at Three Village Inn, 150 Main Street, Stony Brook, (631) 751-0555, threevillageinn.com. Entrees, $24 to $38. Wines, $28 to $12,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SIMPLY SNAPPER: Limani offers lovely fish, usually lightly grilled and filleted at tableside. The restaurant, in Roslyn, is a sparkling palace with a white marble bar and gold mica chandeliers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TUNA IN THE RAW: Specialties at the Brass Rail include tuna tartare. The Locust Valley restaurant impresses with its antique bar and bargain prices, as well as wonderful food.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
RENEWAL: Mirabelle, which closed a year ago, reopened at a new location in Stony Brook and is better than ever. Pork graces its winter squash soup.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 LESS IS LESS: Risotto is served in a baby pumpkin at Amarelle in Wading River, which gives diners the option of ordering smaller portions at prices to match. A stone fireplace is the star of the dining room.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); MENU PRICES (78%); RETAIL BAKERIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); RANKINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); BAKERIES (71%); ICE CREAM (68%)

COMPANY: GARDEN CITY HOTEL INC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



757 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2233 words

HEADLINE: Bail Sitters

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
IF you had been looking closely during the criminal case of Bernard L. Madoff, you might have spotted a portly man with a gourmand's jowls and a walrus mustache hovering just behind the defendant's elbow on his various trips to court. Though dressed like a lawyer, he was not one; nor a prosecutor, a personal assistant, a limousine driver or a family friend. 
 His name, in fact, is Nick Casale and he is a retired New York Police Department detective who was serving as a monitor in the latest iteration of that age-old institution known as bail. Mr. Casale, in short, was a state-sanctioned nanny, escorting Mr. Madoff back and forth from his penthouse to the courthouse to ensure that the world's most famous fraudster abided by the strict conditions that had gotten him out of jail. 
 ''It was an almost military matter,'' Mr. Casale observed proudly, sitting in his office, high over Madison Avenue, where Mr. Madoff's bulletproof vest was, months later, still fetched up against the wall. Not only did the high-profile and high-paying baby-sitting gig rely on the assistance of several former cronies from the Police Department; it required the deployment of a chase car, a digital voice recorder, a broadband wireless router, several metal door bars and a high-resolution, vandal-resistant Nuvico day/night camera -- the one with the plastic dome and manual zoom lens.
 It was, in other words, a drastic distance from the seemingly quaint alternatives of a) incarceration or b) release in advance of standing trial. 
 Bail, of course, is nominally the province of the government, but as with certain toll roads and various crucial functions of the military, it has lately seen a wave of privatization. Over the past two years, a handful of the hottest criminal cases involving the famous and the wealthy have led to the hiring of specialized Manhattan firms like Mr. Casale's. Such firms, which also do private investigations and other security work, are stocked with retired city officers and former federal agents who tend to make the shift quite naturally from, say, protecting snitches at the Motel 6 in Scranton to watching over Wall Street cheats returned to their ample apartments. 
 But the new arrangements are complicated by several questions, including: Whom are the monitors really serving -- the judge who devised the terms of the release or the defendant footing the bill?
 ''The client is the court,'' said Ed Stroz, a former F.B.I. man and a co-founder of Stroz Friedberg LLC, which took over the Madoff monitoring from Mr. Casale after several months. ''This is not a valet service. This is like jail outside.''
 Mr. Casale was not so certain. ''It's a complex issue,'' he said. Would you, as a bail guard, reprimand the man who signs your paychecks? Lock him in the bathroom? Tackle him if he ran out the door?
 And then there are the sociological implications of letting the rich drop wads of cash on the sensitive scales of justice while criminal suspects of modest means languish behind bars.
 ''There's no doubt about it: privilege has its privilege,'' said Mr. Casale, a broad, bearish man with a happy capitalist pluck. ''The thing is,'' he posited hypothetically, ''I happen to own a body shop that specializes in Mercedes. So what am I supposed to say? That you can't drive a nice Mercedes-Benz?'' 
 When Marc S. Dreier was arrested last December in a $400 million fraud case in which he sold fake debt to a number of New York hedge funds, his lawyer, Gerald L. Shargel, understood at once what he had to do. Mr. Dreier's assets had largely been seized or frozen by the government, and he lacked the cash or property to post a convincing bail. So Mr. Shargel, a creative legal thinker, reached deep into his playbook and suggested that his client be released into the custody of a team of private guards, paid for mostly by Mr. Dreier's family.
 ''What guards do is put a mechanism in place that reassures the court,'' Mr. Shargel explained. ''There are people on site'' -- people with guns, it should be said -- ''who are there to make sure that the conditions are enforced.''
 The company he hired -- for $70,000 a month -- was Pathfinder Consultants International, a security firm founded last year by Philip Scala, a retired federal agent who once ran the F.B.I.'s Gambino family squad. The company's president, Robert M. Hart, himself a onetime agent, helped devise a protocol for Mr. Dreier in accordance with the court's elaborate orders: 24-hour lockdown, no access to the balcony, no Internet service, no cellphones, a highly restricted visitors list and, perhaps most chilling, Mr. Dreier's written consent for the guards to use ''reasonable force'' if he foolishly chose to run. 
 ''Prior to the assignment we did a walk-through of the apartment,'' Mr. Hart recalled. ''Conventionally speaking, security sweeps like that are designed to stop people from getting in. This one, of course, was designed to stop people from getting out.''
 To that end, Pathfinder brought in locksmiths to disable the locks at Mr. Dreier's 3,000-square-foot East Side apartment, hired an alarm company to install metal contacts on the front and balcony doors, and advised the building's staff that all visitors would have to be announced and then escorted upstairs by an armed guard after signing into a logbook. Mr. Dreier's computers were tapped, his mail was screened, a midnight curfew put in place. Anything sharp -- steak knives, scissors, razor blades -- was removed from the apartment. The elaborate home entertainment system was dismantled. The telephones were neutered: no call forwarding, no call waiting, not even caller ID. 
 ''If anyone believes it's better to be at home than at the M.D.C. or M.C.C.,'' said Mr. Hart, referring to the city's federal jails, ''he's never been at home with armed guards in his living room 24 hours a day. You can't go out, you've got no access to computers and you're living in earshot of someone paid to watch your every move.''
 Naturally, this can come as quite a shock, especially to white-collar defendants who, before their arrest, lived in breezy freedom and with relative levels of comfort and respect, probably surrounded by aides tending to their whims, not guards restricting their movements. Mr. Scala, in a moment of candor, recalled how Mr. Dreier, fresh from the indignities of the lockup, was happy to be home but nonetheless stunned by how his apartment had been transformed into something like a large and well-appointed cell.
 ''Day 1, two investigators from the Southern District drive him to his place at Beacon Court,'' Mr. Scala said. ''He's got a full-growth beard, he's dazed, he's not even really talking. He's just so thrilled to be out of the M.D.C.
 ''So we sit him down and speak to him diplomatically: This is who we are. This is our role. And finally he says, 'Let me get this straight. There's going to be a guard in my condo 24-7?' ''
 Anthony Valenti, a former federal investigator who is now managing director at Stroz Friedberg, suggested that this ''intellectual change'' -- watching one's castle suddenly transform into a dungeon -- can be difficult to take. ''Ugly scenes at kitchen tables,'' he said, are not uncommon. 
 ''Think about a rainy day -- or even three in a row,'' Mr. Valenti said. ''You're stuck in the house, you can't go to the gym, you've got a bad case of cabin fever. Now multiply that by 67 weeks. Sometimes the subject accepts his fate and sometimes he lashes out.'' 
 Mr. Dreier, for one, was driven half-wild in his five-month stint at home by theformer federal agent in his living room who spent his eight-hour shift talking on his cellphone not only nonstop but also at an excruciating volume. 
 ''There was a time when he would have simply told the guy: 'Enough. Do you know who I am? I'm Marc Dreier,' '' one of his lawyers said. ''But at that point, the guy basically ran his life.''
 Bail, as it is known today in America, derives from the Habeas Corpus Act passed by the English Parliament in 1679, which states, in part: ''A Magistrate shall discharge prisoners from their Imprisonment taking their Recognizance, with one or more Surety or Sureties, in any Sum according to the Magistrate's discretion.'' 
 What is often misunderstood is that the practice is not meant to be punitive, and that the law actually favors granting bail. There are only two reasons to deny it: when defendants present a flight risk or a danger to the community. Of course, within that framework, there is ample wiggle room for lawyers to argue for bail by offering ever more sophisticated provisions to be certain that their clients do not abscond from Bensonhurst to Bolivia. 
 It is generally acknowledged that the first case of highly monitored bail was that of John A. Gotti, the son of John J. Gotti, the Gambino family don. He negotiated his release from jail in October 1998 with a $10 million deposit and oaths to wear an electronic bracelet, allow his phones to be monitored by the F.B.I. and permit a full-time guard to be posted outside his home in Oyster Bay, N.Y. 
 More restrictive still was the case of Mahender and Varsha Sabhnani, a wealthy couple from Muttontown, Long Island, who were charged in 2007 with enslaving and torturing two Indonesian domestic workers at their home. While awaiting trial in Brooklyn, the Sabhnanis were released on an unheard-of condition: that private guards be placed in the house. (Both Sabhnanis were convicted and sentenced to prison; their maids were awarded nearly $1 million in back wages.)
 The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, when considering the Sabhnani case, immediately recognized the implications of the groundbreaking arrangement, but more or less dismissed the problem in a footnote. ''The government has not argued and, therefore, we have no occasion to consider,'' the judges wrote, ''whether it would be 'contrary to principles of detention and release on bail' to allow wealthy defendants 'to buy their way out by constructing a private jail.' '' 
 Mr. Sabhnani's lawyer, Stephen Scaring, said that bail baby sitters for the rich were not only legal but also a simple fact of life. ''Donald Trump flies in his own plane,'' he noted. ''The rest of us fly coach.''
 The Dreier case produced a legal document that dealt even more head-on with the equity of the practice: an order composed by Jed S. Rakoff, a federal judge in Manhattan, who wrote, in a memorable opening line, ''How glorious to be an American citizen.'' While Judge Rakoff eventually condoned bail monitoring in his order, he seemed to do so with hesitation in his heart.
 ''It cannot be gainsaid that many kinds of bail conditions favor the rich,'' he wrote, ''and, conversely, that there are many defendants who are too poor to afford even the most modest of bail bonds or financial conditions of release. This is a serious flaw in our system. But it is not a reason to deny a constitutional right to someone who, for whatever reason, can provide reasonable assurances against flight.'' 
 (''What am I supposed to say? That you can't drive a nice Mercedes-Benz?'')
 So far, according to interviews with lawyers and the security firms that serve them, there have been a half-dozen cases of home confinement with bail monitoring, as the practice is formally known: those of Mr. Gotti; Mr. Madoff; Mr. Dreier; the Sabhnanis; David Brooks, a wealthy financier indicted on a fraud charge in 2006; and Cameron Douglas, the son of Michael Douglas, who was arrested this summer on a federal drug charge after being found with what the authorities said was a half-pound of methamphetamine.
 This universe is so small because the variables that go into bail-monitoring cases rarely occur together. What is required, first of all, is a defendant responsible enough to be let out of jail but still risky enough to need watching. At the same time, the defendant must have the means to afford round-the-clock surveillance at rates that can reach six figures a month.
 There is fierce competition -- ''friendly competition,'' Mr. Scala said -- for the limited number of bail-monitoring cases, which, after all, are highly lucrative and mainly involve, after the initial setup, hanging out with people at their home. Mr. Casale, for one, would not talk in detail about his action plan for guarding Mr. Madoff, calling it his ''recipe for cake,'' then quickly adding, ''and I sell cake.'' 
 ''It's intellectual property,'' he explained. ''You think you can walk into the Four Seasons and get hold of their recipe for duck? Well, you can't. Not even if you're Ruth Reichl.''
 Still, it's possible -- even likely, the monitors say -- that these plum jobs will increase as investigative agencies turn more of their attention toward Wall Street. 
 ''I think there's a feeling that, with more of these people being arrested, there's a likelihood that judges will make it available for people who can pay,'' Mr. Scala said. ''One can only guess what's going to happen as the facts come in on Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch, Lehman Brothers, Bank of America and the rest. Once that information starts flowing to investigators, agencies will all of the sudden hold people accountable for the economic crash.''
 And once that happens, you may be seeing a lot more financial types hiring the services of a nanny -- not for the kids, but for themselves. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOVERING: That man just behind Bernard L. Madoff during his trial? It was Nick Casale, a former police detective who was hired to ensure that Mr. Madoff abided by strict bail conditions.(PHOTOGRAPHS CLOCKWISE, FROM TOP LEFT: PETER FOLEY/ EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
TIMOTHY A. CLARY/ AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
HIROKO MASUIKE/GETTY IMAGES)(MB1)
ENFORCER: Nick Casale, at top with Bernard L. Madoff, and above with Steve Hyman, a lawyer, in Mr. Casale's office on Madison Avenue. ''It was an almost military matter,'' Mr. Casale said of monitoring Mr. Madoff.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHY WILLENS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
WATCHED: Varsha Sabhnani and the home where she and her husband enslaved two maids. Above, Marc Dreier, convicted of fraud.(PHOTOGRAPHS, CLOCKWISE, FROM TOP LEFT: KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICK MAIMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 HOWARD SCHNAPP/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); PRIVATIZATION (69%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (65%); BROADBAND (50%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



758 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Town Divides Over Law Aimed at Day Laborers

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

DATELINE: OYSTER BAY, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 FIRST came the anti-loitering decrees, then legislation to punish employers and landlords who hire or house immigrants. Now, this Nassau County town of 300,000 people has passed perhaps the most stringent of ordinances attempting to control immigrant day laborers: a law that makes even waving one's hand punishable by a $250 fine.
 ''The term 'solicitation of employment' includes, but is not limited to, shouting at cars, waving arms or signs, making hand signals, approaching motor vehicles or standing in public roads facing in the direction of oncoming traffic,'' reads Ordinance 205-32, which the Town Board passed unanimously Sept. 29. 
 The town's outside counsel, Jonathan Sinnreich, described the ordinance as narrow, lawful and unambiguous. But it has spurred a sorry rift between the officials who approved it -- after residents complained about congestion and worse at an unsanctioned hiring spot in Locust Valley, a hamlet in Oyster Bay -- and the immigrant advocates who deplore it as a law against ''waving while Latino.'' 
 Abel Villalobos, 48, said he escaped political strife in El Salvador for the Long Island suburbs 11 years ago. His new lifestyle was nothing fancy; he scraped by on summertime construction jobs that tapered to nearly nothing in winter, but at least he felt no persecution. Now, unshaven and perplexed, Mr. Villalobos wondered why, after all this time, he was suddenly facing punishment for standing on a certain corner. 
 ''Everybody wants to be a U.S. citizen,'' Mr. Villalobos, who is here illegally, said in a mix of Spanish and English. ''But now we are afraid to go to the corner to find work.'' Another Salvadoran, who gave his name only as Wilfredo and said he was 20, explained: ''If they make us move away, we don't find work. No work means no food.'' 
 Mr. Villalobos and Wilfredo were among more than 100 people who trooped along East Main Street here on a raw mid-December morning to protest the new rule. They carried bilingual protest signs (''Workers Are Not Criminals,'' ''I Prefer to Feed My Family Than Pay a Fine'') and chanted, ''Si, se puede,'' Spanish for ''Yes, we can!''
 Town officials have been unmoved by the protests, or by threats of a lawsuit by the New York Civil Liberties Union. 
 ''I'm not looking to put anybody in jail,'' John Venditto, the town supervisor, said in an interview. ''Maybe I'm living in a fool's paradise, but I believe the day will come when people say, 'Son of a gun, he was right about this.' ''
 The Oyster Bay ordinance was drafted after months when, according to town officials, as many as 80 laborers clogged the intersection of Forest Avenue and 12th Street in Locust Valley each morning, soliciting work. At a public hearing in May, local residents complained so vociferously about the situation -- public urination on private lawns was on the list of infractions -- that Mr. Venditto grew concerned about confrontations between irate residents and immigrant laborers, as well as about traffic problems. 
 ''I'm not anti-immigrant, but their need to be employed doesn't mean they can cause chaos on our streets,'' said Mr. Venditto, a Republican who pointed out that he is the son of an immigrant. ''My predisposition is for these people to get on the highway to citizenship; in the meantime, the ordinance is a short-term solution.''
 Oyster Bay is hardly alone. Some 1,500 local ordinances aimed at controlling an influx of illegal immigrants have been introduced in the last 10 years nationwide. Several dozen were enacted and still stand; one, in Riverside, N.J., was repealed after the town noted that the exodus of immigrants had caused a significant dip in the local economy. 
 The latest trend is the federal 287(g) program, an arrangement between the Homeland Security Department and municipalities to train the local police to function as immigration law enforcers. Such partnerships are in place in 67 jurisdictions nationwide, including Danbury, Conn., and Monmouth County, N.J. In New York, Suffolk County, on Long Island, and the villages of Brewster, in Putnam County, and Suffern, in Rockland County, have also expressed interest. 
 A 2008 study by a University of Minnesota professor noted that ''suburban immigrant populations now outnumber and are growing faster than their counterparts in major cities,'' and said many of these communities have responded with ''the implementation of ordinances and other local policies specifically designed to exclude illegal immigrants from their community.'' 
 Until recently, Oyster Bay had a track record of tolerance and even helpfulness to immigrants, including those here illegally, said Luz Torres, director of Centro Cultural Hispano de Oyster Bay. There was disappointment over the town's refusal to post bilingual signs at its parks and railroad station, she said, but Mr. Venditto helped find classroom space for the center's English classes. 
 The good will eroded with the passage of the ordinance, which Ms. Torres refused to translate into Spanish for the town (officials found a police officer to do it and have been handing out leaflets detailing the new law).
 ''I've lived here 25 years, so I don't need anyone to welcome me, but for these workers, the message is so negative and racist,'' Ms. Torres said. ''That's the thing I fear, that this is a step backward for our town.''
 Oyster Bay's ordinance penalizes both pedestrians who solicit employment and drivers who offer it. In drafting it, town officials said, they consulted job-solicitation ordinances passed in the town of Huntington in 2008 and in Glen Cove back in 1990, and purposefully focused on specific behavior that public safety officers had observed in Locust Valley.
 Glen Cove's ordinance broadly forbade large groups to gather on the street; it withstood a legal challenge from immigrant groups, and was followed in 1993 by the opening of a sanctioned hiring site for laborers, which largely ameliorated the problem. Huntington also has such a sanctioned hiring site, so its ordinance banned only soliciting on the streets; one summons has been issued so far, to a contractor. Oyster Bay has no sanctioned hiring site. 
 The new ordinance, which officials say they have not yet begun to enforce, was aimed at Locust Valley, but covers the entire town, which sprawls from the North Shore to the South and has about 17,600 Hispanics, or 6 percent of the population, according to 2008 population estimates based on the 2000 census. Oyster Bay has another popular street-side hiring spot in the village of Farmingdale, on Conklin Street.
 Despite the new risk, laborers still gather in early morning, as they have for a decade, on an unlovely corner in Locust Valley with a tiny bodega on one side of the street and a golf course on the other. But on Dec. 15, many took the morning off to march against the ordinance and rally in Townsend Park, a patch of lawn with a white gazebo and, for the holidays, a manger scene and menorah.
 One elderly protester, Stan Spiegelman, said he had lived in the hamlet of Oyster Bay since 1993. ''It's my job to fire up the menorah every night,'' he said, leaning heavily on his walker. ''But I'm here now for a different reason; in a democracy we need to protect the minority and the have-nots.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOR HIRE: Oyster Bay, N.Y., bars laborers from asking drivers for jobs. Left, waiting for work in Locust Valley. Right, marchers protested a law they said prohibits ''waving while Latino.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MB10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORDINANCES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LITIGATION (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); CITIES (73%); MULTILINGUALISM (64%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



759 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: For Homeless Families, Christmas at the Temple

BYLINE: By CAROL POGASH

 BODY:
It is Christmas time at the synagogue, and the social hall is ringed with more mattresses and sheets-that-pass-for-curtains than in other years. Newly homeless families will bunk here for two weeks before moving to another house of worship -- and then another and another. 
 In the Oneg Shabbat room at Temple Isaiah in Lafayette, children hooked angels on a tall Christmas tree. Volunteers taught excited girls how to knit while other girls squealed with delight as they shaped papier-mache balloons. A man galloped by with a laughing boy on his back. With Candy Land, PlayDoh, a miniature motor scooter -- and teenage girls bubbling with good intentions -- there is almost everything here to please a child.
For the adolescents though, the toys and attention cannot obscure what is not there. A 14-year-old boy with a nervous smile misses his TV, computer and a bed, and he does not like being confined to a few rooms. His younger brother has his own worries: ''Some of the kids who come help here I hope are not people I know.'' 
 These suburban families reflect a growing nationwide population of the homeless, who have shed jobs and housing. They couch-surf and sleep in cars until, alternatives exhausted, they come to rest at a shelter. 
 Last year the federal government estimated there were 1.6 million homeless in the United States, of which one-third were families. The number of individuals in shelters dropped by 2 percent, thanks to the Bush administration's efforts to house the chronically homeless, while the number of people in families increased by 9 percent. 
 The Obama administration is spending close to $3 billion on preventing homelessness and putting people into permanent housing. Contra Costa County will receive $3 million over three years.
 While local experts concur that they are overwhelmed with the needs of homeless families this year, local surveys do not reflect the increase. A once-every-other-year snapshot survey shows a decline in the number of homeless families from 2007 to 2009 in most Bay Area counties. 
 But Tim O'Keefe, executive director of Shelter Inc., which provides shelter for families in Contra Costa County, disagreed with the statistics. ''Those numbers are not what we've experienced,'' Mr. O'Keefe said. ''Our numbers are going through the roof.''
 Throughout the nation, cities rely on religious institutions to shelter homeless families on a rotating basis. While no one doubts that moving from congregation to congregation is better than sleeping in a car, rotating shelters are criticized as denying children a sense of place. 
 ''They are very disruptive to a child's development to move all the time,'' said Barbara Duffield, policy director for the National Association for the Education of Homeless Children and Youth. 
 With budget tightening five years ago, Contra Costa County handed over responsibility for housing families to nonprofit and interfaith groups. 
 ''We would go to county meetings and say, 'As people of faith, we ask you to increase the number of beds,' '' said Gwen Watson, who is founder and president of Winter Nights, an organization that represents over 100 congregations and provides shelter from October through April. It operates on a $127,000 budget.
 After the City of Concord refused access to the local armory, Ms. Watson learned that the old Orinda library building was available. ''We thought we had died and gone to heaven,'' she said. 
 But the issue nearly provoked a municipal civil war. Some residents said they moved to escape city life and the homeless; others worried that children might find hypodermic needles in their park sandbox. It was during those debates that Ms. Watson heard opponents shout, ''Let the churches handle it!''
 Volunteers at Temple Isaiah and at 25 other congregations cook spaghetti casseroles, tutor and take families on outings. 
 Responsibilities are shared among houses of worship that take the families for two weeks at a time. While it might be better for the families to stay in one church for months, that would not work ''because of Nimby,'' Ms. Watson said, referring to the not-in-my-backyard attitude. 
 Monday through Friday, the families must leave the church or temple after dawn and not return until after 5 p.m. Volunteers drive children to school, and for parents and young children with no place to go during the day, they offer ''the oasis,'' a St. Vincent De Paul facility in Pittsburg with a computer, a shower and a play area for preschool children. By spring, it is hoped that everyone will have a home. Failing that, they will be sent to another shelter.
 Traditional homeless shelters rarely allow minors. With children now making up one-fourth of the county's 5,000 homeless, Winter Nights is therefore crucial. 
 This Christmas, as in years past, Temple Isaiah agreed to host homeless families, Ms. Watson said, because the people at the temple ''know the Christians are so busy getting ready for Christmas.'' 
 Sandy Anderson, who runs the temple program, said: ''As Jews, we don't know how to celebrate this time of year. This is our way.'' 
 More than 300 families help provide meals, tutors, and the Christmas tree, carolers, a jovial Santa and toys. With 10 families, Winter Nights is at capacity; eight families are on the waiting list, and there are extraordinary requests.
 A woman scheduled to give birth on Christmas Eve appealed to a local church for housing this week, because the singles shelter where she resides was adults only.
 ''I can't think of anything sadder than when a baby is born into homelessness,'' Ms. Watson said. ''How can we refuse?'' 
 Every venue is the same, with blue, red, yellow and white sheets strung from irrigation pipes encircling each family's patchwork of mattresses. A family's belongings are stuffed into tall, dented cardboard boxes, which volunteers cart to each new location.
 The fastest-growing population of homelessness in the country remains invisible. ''It's not like San Francisco, where you are walking over bodies,'' said Cynthia Belon, director of Contra Costa County's homeless program. Fearful that their children will be put in foster care, homeless families tend to hide from public view.
 Shelter operators say families are staying longer because finding work is so much more difficult.
 ''The front door is open,'' said Mary Kay Sweeney, executive director of Homeward Bound, a residential service program in Marin County. ''We can't find the back door.'' 
 With the recession, the image of homelessness -- ''the man with a beard and smelling bad'' -- changed, Tim O'Keefe of Shelter Inc. said. Homeless families do not suffer as much from substance abuse and mental illness as homeless individuals; they are more likely to be victims of foreclosure and the recession. 
 All of the adults at Winter Nights who were interviewed said they did not mind moving from place to place, but critics contend that the merry-go-round model is designed from the perspective of the volunteers.
 ''People are trying to do the best they can,'' said Barbara Poppe, executive director of the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness, which coordinates the federal response to homelessness. 
 But, Ms. Poppe said, the moveable shelter ''is not a stabilizing environment'' for children.
 ''The best solution is to get them into an apartment as quickly as possible,'' she said, adding that congregations could pay the first month's rent. 
 ''If there is no housing available, Ms. Poppe said, homeless families are better served if they can ''stay in the same place and have their own room and have volunteers come to them.''
 But doing good is never simple.
 ''If the families were at one site, we would not get the active participation from volunteers,'' Ms. Anderson said.
 The volunteers want to remain where they are, she said: ''That's part of what makes it attractive.. They're comfortable in their home church.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Mario, Yessina, Alex and Liliana Jimenez in their bed at Temple Isaiah, which provides shelter to homeless families.
 Jasmine Crear with her father, Pierre, before lights out at the temple. Bedsheets on rods give families a semblance of privacy.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (92%); HOMELESSNESS (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); RELIGION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (56%); SUBURBS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



760 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW JERSEY DINING HIGHLIGHTS OF 2009; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Our Plates Were Full: Of Variety, Imagination, Value

BYLINE: By KARLA COOK and DAVID CORCORAN

 BODY:
THIS was to be another end-of-the-year serving of steamed spinach, another austere and dutiful ''best values'' edition of our annual restaurant roundup. As we noted at this time last year, nobody is in the mood for extravagance: the over-the-top meals that once seemed so pleasurable have become an acrid reminder of indulgences best forgotten.
 But something about the makeup of the 40 or so restaurants we reviewed in 2009 convinced us that this year was different. It's not just that the economy has rebounded a bit. It's that determined and inventive restaurateurs are finding ways to maintain high standards in tough times -- to deliver value without compromising values.
 A trattoria in Hoboken offers adventurous wines in two-ounce pours, along with small plates of beautifully conceived comfort food -- variety without excess. A bistro in Maplewood produces elegant meals with a minimal staff. In Montclair, an earnest young dog trainer sets up shop in a cramped and narrow diner and creates such a buzz that he soon has to move to bigger quarters. 
 In a sense, these are all ''best values.'' So rather than focus strictly on restaurants that deliver the most for the dollar, we've adopted categories that recognize a wide array of approaches to high quality. Each of us chose a winner from among the restaurants we had reviewed in each category. 
 Best Over All
 NISI ESTIATORIO Airy and comfortable, with room for 150 diners, Nisi delivers contemporary Greek food in high style: for example, an appetizer of sauteed sea scallops wrapped in the air-dried cured beef called pastourma and coated with crunchy shredded phyllo. From the fresh fish on ice, my favorite was a serving of five meaty little pan-fried barbounia, or red mullet. A buoyant but polished enthusiasm pervades the Nisi experience. -- D. C.
 90 Grand Avenue, Englewood; (201) 567-4700; nisirestaurant.com. Entrees, $22 to $48. Reviewed June 28. 
 STELLA MARINA For me, Stella Marina in Asbury Park hit the trifecta: best over all, best of Shore and most exciting. Expect the effervescence of a full house and a good time, where diners are laughing and sharing plates. The setting, at the south end of the Boardwalk, has stunning views. Best appetizers sampled include octopus in sherry vinaigrette and a fine Caesar salad. For dinner, the margherita pizza is reminiscent of Trenton's classics, and the vitello capricciosa, breaded and fried veal scaloppine topped with arugula salad, is alchemy. -- K. C.
 800 Ocean Avenue, Asbury Park; (732) 775-7776; stellamarinarestaurant.com. Entrees, $18 to $29. Reviewed July 26.
 Best Value
 TSUKASA RESTAURANT Do not be fooled by the luncheonette look, the laundromat lighting or the nearly dour service. Tsukasa is a trove of Japanese classics -- deep-fried breaded oysters, deep-fried eggplant with sweet miso paste, fried soft-shell crab, seaweed-wrapped rice ball with a salt-pickled plum in the center. Tsukasa has the requisite sushi and sashimi entrees, along with teriyaki, tempura, fried pork cutlets, donburi, noodles and salad. You will feast here. -- K. C.
 1 1/2 Crosswicks Street, Bordentown; tsukasarestaurant.blogspot.com; (609) 298-3838. Dinner entrees, $10 to $20. B.Y.O. Reviewed Dec. 20. 
 BIN 14 The veteran Hoboken chef Anthony Pino sailed boldly into the teeth of the recession last year, sinking $600,000 into a former longshoremen's bar, transforming it into a bright, cheery room with a contemporary and communal feel. Most dishes are appetizer-scale in both size and price, and wine is as central to Bin 14 as the food. Much of the long list can be sampled in two-ounce pours, at $3 to $11. In short, you get to design your own tasting menu, with wine pairings; as a server advised us, ''There are no rules.'' -- D. C.
 1314 Washington Street, Hoboken; (201) 963-9463; bin14.com. Small plates, $5 to $10; downsized entrees, $12 to $15. Reviewed Oct. 4.
 Best of the Shore
 TAKA Asbury Park goes two for two in this category, with Karla Cook's nod to Stella Marina and mine to this prodigiously enjoyable Japanese fusion restaurant half a mile from the Boardwalk. Taka, in a soaring atriumlike space, offers no end of visual interest: a vast geisha-and-samurai mural, dozens of white Japanese lanterns suspended above the dining room. The chef, Takahiro Hirai, delivers exuberant dishes like tuna butsu, in which small cubes of tangy raw fish and mellow avocado glow like gemstones. Entrees can be uneven but are seldom boring, and desserts are uniformly fine. -- D. C.
 632 Mattison Avenue, Asbury Park; (732) 775-1020. Entrees, $16 to $30. B.Y.O. Reviewed May 24. 
 Best 'Fresh and Local'
 BERNARDS INN This year, as chefs competed to see how many local place names they could squeeze onto their menus, no one kept it more local than Corey Heyer, the executive chef at the Bernards Inn. He led a team that grew nasturtiums (served with an appetizer of seared ahi tuna), arugula (with grilled Wagyu beef and cilantro pesto), salad greens, potatoes, squash blossoms, eggplants, cucumbers, peppers, thyme; they are not just decoration, but the restaurant's foundation. -- K. C.
 27 Mine Brook Road, Bernardsville; (908) 766-0002; bernardsinn.com. Entrees, $28 to $45. Reviewed March 15.
 MARKET Joshua Cederbaum, the owner of this ebullient Montclair restaurant, is a dog trainer by day, and he already has this demanding town eating out of his hand. He recently moved Market from the tiny former diner where I reviewed it to more spacious digs in the home of the old Church Street Kitchen. ''Market plates'' -- appetizer-size, largely vegetarian dishes -- are the way to go here. -- D. C.
 12 Church Street, Montclair; (973) 744-2244; marketmontclair.com. Market plates, $5 to $16. Entrees, $15 to $22. B.Y.O. Reviewed Sept. 20. 
 Most Exciting
 THE ORANGE SQUIRREL Fortunately, you don't have to eat the name. Francesco Palmieri, the chef and owner, transformed a former blue-collar pub into a whimsical but elegant 50-seat space. The menu at the Orange Squirrel is even more compelling, with exquisite and robust dishes like gnudi -- light, pillowy dumplings, in a clear and tangy Parmesan broth with wild mushrooms and white-truffle essence -- and a whole branzino, cooked and served in an iron skillet. -- D. C.
 412 Bloomfield Avenue, Bloomfield; (973) 337-6421; theorangesquirrel.com. Entrees, $19 to $37. Reviewed Nov. 8. 
 Sleepers of the Year
 SAIGON Hot and juicy grilled meats and bargain prices will warm you at Saigon, where any two appetizers make a delicious light meal. Among the favorites: fresh spring rolls, with a fat shrimp as well as pork, egg and noodles in a rice-paper wrapping; shrimp paste wrapped around sticks of sugar cane, grilled and served over rice vermicelli; charbroiled marinated pork meatballs with lettuce for wrapping. Pickled lemon with soda is a quenching mix. -- K. C.
 Saigon Restaurant, 2239 South Clinton Avenue, South Plainfield; (908) 561-9085; saigoncuisinenj.com. Entrees, $10 to $13. B.Y.O. Reviewed May 17.
 LUKE'S KITCHEN Rod Hernandez, the chef and owner of this delectable little spot in Maplewood, keeps it going with hardly any staff -- on each of our visits, just himself and one server. Service can be slow, but it is winning. And the food at Luke's Kitchen is terrific, with deft, original touches. Smoked salmon came with pale-green sweet-pea pancakes and a yogurt-and-cucumber salad. Outstanding seafood entrees include roasted sea scallops and the solelike John Dory. Our server summed up her boss's philosophy: ''Eighty percent of cooking is done at the grocery store.'' -- D. C. 
 175 Maplewood Avenue, Maplewood; (973) 763-4005; lukeskitchen.com. Prix fixe, $42 for three courses, with many supplements. B.Y.O. Reviewed Jan. 11.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FEAST FOR THE EYES: The lump crab cake with artichoke roasted pepper salad and Aleppo mayonesa, left, at Nisi Estiatorio in Englewood, and the main dining room at the Japanese fusion restaurant Taka in Asbury Park, above.
UP WITH THE SHORE: In Asbury Park, Stella Marina, above, scored points with excellent menu items, including the pizza, left, its stunning views and its fun atmosphere.
FILL 'EM UP: Clockwise from left: Corey Heyer, executive chef of the Bernardsville Inn, was the king of local
at Bin 14, grilled octopus, andouille, cannellini and cauliflower
Bin 14's dining room in Hoboken
the Orange Squirrel in Bloomfield and its pumpkin creme brulee with pumpkin ice cream.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
NADAV NEUHAUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); DOGS (67%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (66%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (65%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (65%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



761 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Family Says Wrigley Field Will Stay Wrigley Field

BYLINE: By DAN McGRATH

 BODY:
Bank of America Ballpark at Wrigley Field? U.S. Cellular Field the Elder? Oprahland?
 Speculation about the possible sale of naming rights to Wrigley Field has spread since the Ricketts family bought the Chicago Cubs from the Tribune Company in the fall, but the new owners of the Cubs have not discussed the sale of naming rights to Wrigley Field, according to Wally Hayward, the team's new chief marketing officer.
 Beyond that, Mr. Hayward said in an interview last week, the Ricketts family would not sell the name because they understand the essence of the old-time park.
 ''We are not going to take the ivy off the walls and replace it with advertising signage,'' said Mr. Hayward, who will oversee the Cubs' business development, including commercial opportunities at Wrigley. ''We intend to preserve the Friendly Confines.'' 
 The stated intentions of the Ricketts family, though, will be tested against an unrelenting need for major repairs at Wrigley that could run to $400 million or more, according to documents reviewed by the Chicago News Cooperative and interviews with people who saw cost estimates during the Cubs' two-and-a-half-year auction process. Experts in sports marketing believe the sale of naming rights will prove necessary as a means of financing Wrigley renovations.
 The 96-year-old baseball shrine is one of the most popular attractions in Chicago and helps make the Cubs a signature sports brand despite a 101-year championship drought. But the park is showing its age, and its lack of amenities limits revenue. 
 Tom Ricketts, a 44-year-old investment banker, and his three siblings completed their $842 million purchase of the Cubs in October, prevailing over others who dropped out because of the high cost and the complexity of the deal. 
 One potential buyer, who asked to remain anonymous, withdrew when the sale price rose too high. He said the Tribune Company projected the cost of a Wrigley renovation at $400 million, a claim substantiated by documents. Plans also called for the Cubs to move out of Wrigley for at least a year while the work was done, the unsuccessful bidder said. 
 James R. Thompson, the Illinois Sports Facilities Authority chairman and a former Illinois governor, put the tab even higher.
 ''I think it was closer to $600 million,'' Mr. Thompson said in an interview last week. ''That was for a top-to-bottom renovation of a very aged structure with a lot of limitations -- the place doesn't have a kitchen.''
 Tom Ricketts acknowledged that the $400 million figure was discussed as the Tribune Company briefly considered selling Wrigley to the Illinois Sports Facilities Authority. In that plan, ownership of the Chicago National League Ball Club would have been split from the sale of the famous ballpark. 
 Ultimately, though, Tom Ricketts; his sister, Laura; and his brothers Todd and Pete paid a reported $842 million for the Cubs, Wrigley Field and a quarter share of the Comcast Sportsnet Chicago regional cable network. While expectations for improvement in the team's on-field performance are typically high, Wrigley Field presents a complicated, costly challenge, too. 
 Tom Ricketts brushes off the $400 million cost estimate for repairs, but acknowledges that major improvements must be made. In an interview in late November, he said he was still studying financing options, but believed that the repairs could be done without selling Wrigley's name. 
 ''One of our top priorities is to develop a real strategy to save Wrigley Field and make it a premier baseball experience,'' Mr. Ricketts said. 
 Aside from naming rights, owners of other ballparks have turned to ticket prices and seat licenses as sources of additional revenue. But Mr. Ricketts said there had been no discussion of either of those options. The Cubs may have limited ability to raise ticket prices much beyond a previously announced 2010 increase that will most likely keep the team within baseball's top three. 
 Experts who have studied the challenges of the Ricketts family note that the sale of Comiskey Park's naming rights to U.S. Cellular in 2003 in a 20-year, $68 million deal, made it possible to renovate the upper deck of that South Side ballpark, make fans more comfortable and improve the White Sox's revenues. 
 The U.S. Cellular naming rights came in at $3.4 million a year. A leading sports consultancy estimates that naming rights to Wrigley could fetch much more. 
 Jim Andrews, senior vice president of the IEG consulting firm, said he believed a Wrigley Field rights deal could be worth $5 million a year now, and maybe twice that in a better economic climate.
 ''It's not an optimal time with the economy, but if they can wait a bit for the market to come back, I think you're easily into the $10 million-a-year range,'' said Mr. Andrews, who helped the Minnesota Twins sell naming rights to Target for their new park, which is set to open in 2010. ''That's a pretty exclusive property.'' 
 The Yankees took a different approach, selling sponsorship ''zones'' at their new facility in the Bronx while retaining the Yankee Stadium name. Certain areas of Wrigley -- the Bud Light Bleachers, the Captain Morgan Club, the Chicago Board Options Exchange box seats -- have already been sold, but consultants note that such ''incremental income'' is less lucrative than one major rights deal.
 Mr. Andrews noted that a company responsible for a name change at the ballpark could face potentially damaging public relations fallout. ''You're in for a lot of grief,'' he said. ''It will die down, but there's such a long history of people calling it Wrigley Field.'' 
 During the Cubs auction, naming rights were considered such a touchy issue that they were discussed only peripherally, in reference to a Tribune proposal to persuade Bill Wrigley, then head of the gum company, to pay to keep his company's name on the ballpark, Mr. Thompson said. 
 ''We didn't think about changing the name,'' he said. ''It's too much a part of the culture out there.''
 The Ricketts family sees the ballpark as an essential part of the Cubs' identity and a major source of the franchise's value. Members cite Fenway Park, the thriving 97-year-old home of the Boston Red Sox, as their analogy. 
 Fenway has undergone a $150-million renovation that began shortly after a group led by John Henry, an investor, bought the Red Sox in 2002. The Henry group paid for the work without selling naming rights through revenue-generating changes that include these: The addition of ''Green Monster seats'' above the fabled left-field wall; transforming the adjacent Yawkey Way into an ''on-campus'' concourse; and conversion of the ground floor of a nearby parking structure into retail outlets. New seats throughout the park and other changes have updated the park without sacrificing the Fenway feel.
 ''Anyone doing work related to the ballpark was going to have to take the Fenway Park Hippocratic Oath: First, do no harm,'' said Larry Lucchino, the Red Sox president. ''Fenway will be viable for another 40 to 50 years. We've set ourselves apart by being something special. We preserved the spirit of the place.''
 Janet Marie Smith is the architect who oversaw the Fenway renovation, which was done in phases during the off-seasons so the team's schedule was not disrupted. ''Doing it in stages ended up being a virtue,'' Ms. Smith said. ''Each phase got the attention it deserved.''
 The Ricketts family's to-do list is nearly as ambitious as the Henry group's was seven years ago. Construction of a long-planned ''triangle building'' on a triangular-shaped parcel northwest of the ballpark on Clark Street would add revenue-generating retail outlets and could house team offices now in Wrigley, Tom Ricketts said. This would create room within the park for expanded concourses with more concessions and more clubhouse space for the players. 
 The new owners have no intention of having the Cubs play elsewhere while renovations are done, Mr. Ricketts said. 
 Bud Selig, the baseball commissioner, endorses the Rickettses' approach and admires their stated respect for Wrigley's special status. 
 ''Some edifices are sports cathedrals that have to be preserved,'' Mr. Selig said. ''Wrigley Field is one of them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wrigley Field requires at least an estimated $400 million in repairs, but the Ricketts family said it would not sell naming rights.
 The Ricketts family, from left, Peter, Todd, Laura and Tom, spoke at the end of October, after they bought the Cubs.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSe MORe/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

COMPANY: TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



762 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: How Travelers Can Give

 BODY:
To the Editor: Regarding ''Frugal, But With Plenty to Give'' (Dec. 20): Thanks for reminding us to give a little back this year instead of worrying about what material goods we can afford to buy for our friends and family. In a recession, why not donate a little time and effort instead of money? 
 Melissa J. Mapes Covilha, Portugal
 To the Editor: Travelers Aid is wonderful. When I was a returning Peace Corps volunteer landing in Chicago in January in a snowstorm clad in flip-flops, a T-shirt and jeans, they lent me a blanket. I looked so stressed out that the Hare Krishnas offered me money, but the blanket was better. 
 Sherry Friend Richmond, Ky.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



763 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Automobiles; CAR CRITIC'S PICKS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: A Holiday From Wishful Thinking

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
The urge to find silver linings in the recession's clouds is understandable. But the vogueish insistence that Americans will rediscover the simple life -- forgoing new cars and Texas-size TVs, perhaps stitching designer jeans from homespun cotton -- is wishful thinking. 
 The recession has changed our essential nature as much as vegans have convinced us to stop perusing the Dollar Menu at McDonald's. When Americans get back to work, they'll spend their lunch breaks clambering over each other to buy cars, as they have always done when the financial coast was clear. More than a house, and far more than a piddling iPhone -- a token of achievement so potent that 15-year-old babysitters can acquire one -- a car remains the most visible, desirable accessory of success. For better or worse, those four wheels, wrapped in glossy paint and bursting with high-tech toys, are still the fastest route to the good life that upwardly mobile Americans have always imagined for themselves.. 
 At least that's my theory, for which I'm hoping to be vindicated in 2011. Or maybe in 2012. And for anyone with the means and inclination to buy a new car in 2010, here are 10 of the best I drove in 2009:
 1. Volkswagen Golf TDI and GTI 
 The TDI hatchback, along with its road-slashing GTI cousin, are the best and most timely cars I've driven this year, a one-two punch to the recession's leering mug. The diesel-powered TDI is more luxurious than a Toyota Prius, and far more fun. Yet in highway driving it is just as thrifty, posting an incredible 52 m.p.g. The GTI starts at barely $24,000 and tops 30 m.p.g. on the highway, yet this practical hatchback is as thrilling to drive as many sports cars. 
 2. Audi S4 and S5 Cabriolet
 For both these Audis, the ''S'' on their muscular chests is the difference between Superman and Clark Kent: If you love to fly, why settle for the mere-mortal A4 or A5 versions? For roughly $7,000 more, the S versions come with Audi's new 333-horsepower supercharged V-6, which blows away the 211-horsepower turbo 4 in the most basic models, yet gets just 1 m.p.g. less on the highway, at 26 mpg. And the S5 Cabrio is my current dream car that's not pure lottery-ticket fantasy: At roughly $70,000, the Audi convertible is fast and decadent, but still roomy enough for kids and luggage. 
 3. Volvo XC60
 A genuine looker in a field dominated by suburban snoozers, the XC60 crossover caps its eye-snaring design with several pluses: Outstanding use of space; a just-right blend of ride comfort and handling control; an eager turbocharged V-6 and a slick all-wheel-drive system. It also offers the most comprehensive safety features in its class. 
 4. Ford Fusion Hybrid
 The Fusion defies the conventional wisdom that Detroit couldn't build a great hybrid. The Ford trumps the Toyota Camry Hybrid's city mileage, at 41 m.p.g. for the Ford versus 33 for the Toyota. And I love racking up green points with the interactive, leaf-sprouting video display that encourages you to try to attain the best possible mileage.
 5. BMW 7 Series
 I must get getting old: I'm starting to feel at home in grandpa-sized luxury sedans. But that doesn't mean I'm ready for a date with the local death panel. The new 7 Series -- I'm talking the long-wheelbase version, the 750Li -- has more rear legroom than any Mercedes, Lexus, Audi or Jaguar. Yet the car's athletic handling makes this the rare luxo-barge that can relax or reinvigorate on command.
 6. Nissan 370Z Roadster
 Nissan has followed up the acclaimed Z coupe, new last year, with a droptop version. And if the only thing you love more than a sports car is a convertible sports car, the Z (starting at barely $42,000) is the most wind-aided joy you'll have without raiding the 401(k) for a Porsche Boxster, a Corvette or some other more pricey ragtop. 
 7. Audi R8 5.2 V-10
 I was skeptical before my opening laps in the new 10-cylinder Audi R8; the original V-8 model seemed enough to satisfy any sports-car fantasy. Turns out that the 525-horsepower midmounted V-10 -- a detuned version of the explosive engine in the Lamborghini Gallardo, the R8's sister car -- gives the Audi the spine-jangling sound, power and 200-m.p.h. bragging rights this exotic needed all along. Now I think the V-8 version is the one that's irrelevant: If you have the means to spend $130,000 on a two-seat Audi, you might as well go all-in for the $160,000 V-10 model.
 8. Mazda 3/Mazdaspeed 3
 Japan's sharpest riposte to the VW Golf and GTI, the Mazdas are for buyers who demand more from a small car: Not just price and practicality, but fun and refinement. The Mazdaspeed version, with its 263-horsepower turbo 4, is more high-strung and adolescent than the GTI; but a grown-up can still drive one without looking as if he's watched too many Eminem videos. 
 9. Mercedes-Benz E-Class coupe
 The coupe version of the latest E-Class sedan has more hubba-hubba than any four-seat Benz in memory. After you park this arched-roof coupe, you may find yourself walking backward trying to catch one last glimpse. The Benz is also fast, plush, and satisfying, especially the splurge-worthy E550, with a terrific 382-horsepower V-8.
 10. Land Rover LR4
 This reworking of the LR3 is as old-school as a nearly three-ton, steel-boned, rock-crawling S.U.V. can be. And the 14 m.p.g. I recorded on my test drive is old-school as well. But for the LR4, the new includes a terrific Jaguar-based V-8, a markedly improved cabin and better ride and handling. The capable LR3 was bursting with industrial character, but the LR4 is a genuine luxury alternative to the range-topping Range Rover. Add handy three-row seating unavailable in the Range Rover, and the $60,000 LR4 feels like a three-ton bargain. 
 Beyond the Top 10
 Here are some of my biggest letdowns this year:
 1. Ford Taurus
 Looks are deceiving for the Taurus, whose modestly handsome styling disguises the most disappointing car I tested this year. The Taurus could get the award for World's Biggest Small Car: it seems enormous on the outside, claustrophobic on the inside, with poor exterior sightlines and an paucity of rear legroom for taller adults. The final backhand came from my wife, taken aback by the Taurus' old-fashioned, floaty road manners. ''I thought America stopped making cars like this,'' she said.
 2. Chevrolet Camaro
 I wanted to love the Camaro. And while the car's looks score a technical knockout, the Camaro is too deeply flawed: It weighs too much, has a so-so interior, indifferent steering and the outward visibility of a barrel at Niagara Falls. Let's hope the ''Transformers'' star can transform itself into a more complete car in the years to come. 
 3. Audi A4
 The A4 is the rare recent Audi that misses the mark in overall design and performance, not to mention its dismayingly lofty price. 
 4. BMW X6 ActiveHybrid
 The X6 and the 555-horsepower X6M are up front, at least, about their profligate, power-mad intentions. But the bogus X6 ActiveHybrid crossover, rated at just 19 m.p.g. on the highway, reminds me of the Lexus LS 600h L hybrid sedan: It is overwrought and pointless, a piece of green window dressing. 
 5. Cadillac SRX
 All show and no go sums up the Cadillac SRX, a great-looking crossover that drives like a tarted-up Chevy. 
 6. Chrysler Group 
 Give Chrysler an ''incomplete'' final score for the year. Perhaps tired of seeing its cars relentlessly panned, Chrysler simply didn't put out any new cars at all this year. The Dodge Ram Heavy Duty pickup, itself merely a work-centric offshoot of the company's lone sales star, was the sole new addition to the Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep lineups. Chrysler's cupboard is scarily bare for 2010 as well; the redesigned Jeep Grand Cherokee looks terrific on paper, but it will arrive into a dwindling class of conventional S.U.V.'s. Aside from that, there is next to nothing until products arrive from Fiat -- and it is hardly certain that the Italians can pull off the Chrysler rescue that eluded Daimler and Cerberus, Chrysler's two previous owners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); MEAT FREE DIETS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



764 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 BRAZIL TRIES TO PREVENT LAND GRABS IN THE AMAZON
 For the first time Brazil is keeping track of who owns land in the Amazon, and who should be held accountable when forest is cleared illegally. In the process, Brazil hopes to curb deforestation. PAGE 6
 ATTACKS ON IRAQI SHIITES 
 A roadside bomb exploded in the eastern part of Baghdad, adding to a rise in sectarian violence during the 10-day observance of Ashura, a Shiite religious holiday. PAGE 8
 ISRAELI STRIKES KILL 6
 The Israeli military killed six Palestinians, three in the West Bank whom it accused of killing a Jewish settler and three in Gaza who it said were crawling along the border wall planning an attack.. PAGE 8
 CZECH COMMUNISTS FACE BAN
 Two decades after the Velvet Revolution overthrew Communist rule, a group of senators in the Czech Republic is pushing to ban the Communist Party, which some see as a national embarrassment. PAGE 10
 HURDLES IN INDONESIA
 In the five years since a tsunami hit Indonesia, reconstruction has been plagued by problems, such as poor coordination and the remains of a 30-year separatist conflict. PAGE 11
 National
 WHEN LEGISLATION PASSES, BUT THE DEBATE DOESN'T END
 Democrats worked feverishly to successfully pass sweeping health care overhauls in the Senate and House. But it is worth remembering that sometimes even after legislation is signed into law, the effort to defeat it doesn't stop. Prescriptions by Reed Abelson. PAGE 4
 MONTANA TOWN FACES CHOICE
 The people of Denton, Mont., population 300, are feeling the lure of financial incentives offered by a giant freight line which is competing with Denton's own nonprofit railroad, Central Montana Railroad. PAGE 12
 A HARD NUMBER ON GRANTS
 The Department of Education is awarding hundreds of millions of dollars to states in a $4 billion grant competition. The department estimates that it will take each state about 681 hours to prepare its proposal, but state officials say that estimate is far too low. PAGE 12
 New York
 TWO WAYS TO ICE SKATE: 
 Plain or Glamorous
 With the world warming, this might be a good time to go ice skating. But where? New Yorkers can skate in grand style, or with few frills. City Critic by Ariel Kaminer. PAGE 28
 Sports
 THE YEAR IN SPORTS: ON THE FIELD, AND OFF
 Perhaps the most shocking story of 2009 was Tiger Woods's scandal, which left those who have followed his career looking for clues. PAGE 4
 People -- and horses -- made their mark on the athletic field too, including Kim Clijsters, Caster Semenya, Zenyatta and Rachel Alexandra. PAGE 5
 The championship scorecard was filled in with familiar names (Yankees, Steelers and Lakers), but athletes' private lives garnered much of the attention. PAGE 6
 OFF THE BENCH, INTO STARDOM
 Mark Titus rarely plays for Ohio State's basketball team. Yet he is one of the game's most popular players, thanks to his blog, which details his life as a benchwarmer. PAGE 9 
 BEIJING HELPED GYMNAST
 Bridget Sloan -- who helped the United States women win an Olympic silver medal in the team event in Beijing -- has risen to the top of her sport. PAGE 9 
 Obituaries
 TIM COSTELLO, 64
 A truck driver who became a labor advocate and theorist, he was the founder of an organization that fought globalization. PAGE 31
 Sunday Business
 BACK FROM THE BRINK (BUT WATCH YOUR STEP)
 Most Americans felt as if they had been hit in the head by a 4-iron in 2008. In 2009 -- with more than a few bumps along the way -- the situation brightened. But a look back at 2009 reveals that the year's five biggest business stories won't have an ending until 2010. PAGE 1 
 ON TO THE NEXT BOARDROOM
 One might think that board members managing companies that cratered would be effectively barred from serving as directors at other companies. But many just slither on to the next boardroom. Fair Game by Gretchen Morgenson. PAGE 1 
 Arts & Leisure
 JUST LIKE DANCING, WITH SOUSAPHONES
 Football season is also marching-band season, a particular form of American folk art. The viewing window is a short one, culminating in college football's postseason bowl games and a marching-band showcase in the coming weeks. PAGE 1 
 MANY HANDS, ONE VISION
 Novartis' chief executive, Daniel L. Vasella, is halfway through transforming a decrepit complex into one of the most ambitious undertakings in a decade. And he has an army of renowned architects to help. PAGE 1 
 Magazine
 THE LIVES THEY LIVED
 The New York Times Magazine presents its annual look at some of the noteworthy lives that ended in the last year, including famous figures, like Irving Penn and Ted Kennedy, as well as lesser-known names. PAGE 17
 Book Review
 MAN OF DARKNESS
 In ''Koestler: The Literary and Political Odyssey of a Twentieth-Century Skeptic,'' Michael Scammell seeks to show that something more than frivolity or opportunism lay behind Koestler's ever-shifting preoccupations and allegiances, Christopher Caldwell writes. PAGE 1
 Sunday Styles
 THE YEAR IN STYLE
 In a year when a flailing economy sent creative types scurrying for aesthetic foxholes, a single unlikely figure raised the flag for style and its power to confound, bewitch and amuse: Lady Gaga. PAGE 1 
 Blogs Crashed Fashion's 1st Row 1 
 Automobiles
 THE YEAR IN CARS
 With bankruptcies, bailouts and plunging sales, the auto industry had a terrible year. As automakers tried to keep a lap ahead of the Grim Reaper, shedding lines and selling brands, it became difficult to keep track of the players left on the road. SPORTSSUNDAY, PAGE 10
 Travel
 THE PARMA OF STENDHAL
 There's the Parma that sprang from Stendhal's ''The Charterhouse of Parma,'' and then there's the real Italian city. Both are worth exploring. PAGE 1 
 Editorial
 NEXT STEP ON HEALTH REFORM
 The Senate bill is a big improvement, but if lawmakers truly want to serve their constituents, they would include provisions from the House bill. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11 
 OUT OF THE GATE
 The New York Racing Association's ban on breeders or trainers who sell horses for slaughter is welcome but late. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11 
 Op-Ed
 MAUREEN DOWD
 Kevin's back! The columnist's conservative brother takes over her column and turns it a blazing shade of red. Week in Review, Page 14 
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 Pati Castillo, a 30-year-old Honduran who lost her waitressing job in Houston, hasn't been in contact with her family for two months. Her story is an example of the devastating toll the American recession has on neighborhoods around the world. Week in Review, Page 14 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); MUHARRAM (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); RELIGION (76%); DEFORESTATION (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); HOMICIDE (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); WINTER SPORTS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); TSUNAMIS (67%); ICE SKATING (66%); CELEBRITIES (64%); BASKETBALL (64%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (51%); TIGER WOODS SCANDAL (50%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) MONTANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) BRAZIL (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); INDONESIA (91%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009



765 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: 2008: Titles of the Times

BYLINE: By COLUM McCANN. 
Colum McCann is the author of ''Let the Great World Spin.''

 BODY:
We are built on the wounds and mercies of the past: everywhere we are is everywhere we have been. I traveled to America long before I came to America. I grew up in Ireland in the '70s, a teenager reading Kerouac, Ginsberg, Brautigan, Ferlinghetti. I would walk the length of Dun Laoghaire pier -- a moving corduroy of sea waves in front of me -- with a paperback copy of ''Trout Fishing in America'' tucked in the waistband of my jeans. Leaving was already written in me. 
 When I became an American citizen more than two decades later, I took James Joyce along with me. He sat on the metal chair at the swearing-in ceremony, and it was our secret that I'd now become a man of two countries: the only other people I told were my wife and children. 
 I still, these days, mark time by books. It is my chance at history. So I enter the 1920s not through Wilson, or Harding, or Coolidge, but in Gatsby's gorgeous pink rag of a suit. I find Herbert Hoover hanging out on the running board of the Joad jalopy. Kennedy and Johnson traipse along feeling the weight of the things they have carried, and Bill Clinton sounds out the saxophone alongside the white noise. 
 Literature can stop my heart and execute me for a moment, allow me to become someone else. It is another chance at history. It is also my opportunity to align myself with the sort of American that I would like to be. 
 But for all my pursuit of what it meant to belong, I still hadn't, by 2008, three years after I took the oath, told anyone but my family about my blue passport. Throughout the Bush years, I carried an awkward brick of language around with me -- ''Blackwater'' and ''levee'' and ''jumpsuit'' and ''Enron'' -- and that was not a language I wanted to build a house upon. I stayed silent and I tucked my dual citizenship away. 
 Then on the evening of Nov. 4, 2008, Barack Obama stepped onto the stage of a country maimed by war, cleaved by greed, riven by a collapsing economy, and I walked outside my New York apartment with my 5-year-old son in my arms, and I felt those old bricks falling away from me, the guilt, the doubt, the American stammer. Up and down the street, people shouted out the windows of their cars. Strangers were hugging one another. It was the briefest of parties -- Bernie Madoff was on the way, after all, and Afghanistan loomed -- but my boy had fallen asleep on my shoulder, and I felt I was, then, like the old phrase, the son of my son. 
 Fiction deals elegantly with issues that politics eventually wrestles with, corrupts, destroys, but nothing specific had been written to prepare me for President Obama. I wasn't able to align him with any fiction, and yet it seemed that so much of literature has worked toward the moment. From Vladimir Nabokov to Aleksandar Hemon to Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, American literature has always been prepared to take in the ''other.'' It has also allowed writers to hold onto their own country, so that they can have their hands in the warmth -- or bitter cold -- of both places.
 The night confirmed for me so much of what I had wanted from the American experience, and so much of what I'd already received from her literature. Two halves of me were welded. It was as if politics had woken me from books, and I felt rooted and at home.
 When 2008 is crushed and lying in the smithereens of memory, far from now, when it has taken on new shape, or when it has been undone by other years, when it has been dissected and torn, when it has been transformed into novels, shot through with language, reinventing the president, and indeed us, I will still return to that November evening, a moment that -- like good fiction -- was the marker of a beginning and an end.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); CITIZENSHIP (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); BERNARD MADOFF (53%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRELAND (73%); AFGHANISTAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



766 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Nickelodeon) KIDS TO THE RESCUE! HELPING HOMELESS ANIMALS ''Nick News With Linda Ellerbee'' looks at children from across the country, including a few close to home in Brooklyn and New Rochelle, N.Y., who have come to the aid of some of the hundreds of thousands of cats and dogs that have been abandoned during the recession. It also tells the stories of celebrities who have welcomed rescued animals into their homes, including Lance Bass, Sophia Bush, Kellan Lutz, Tony Hawk, Tiffani Thiessen and Bonnie Hunt.
 10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOSRobert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, discusses where the Obama administration stands on the issues that divide the House and Senate health care reform bills and what the president's priorities are for 2010. Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, weighs in on his party's strategy heading into the new year. Mr. Gibbs moves to ''Meet the Press,'' at 10:30 on NBC, alongside Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York; Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker; and Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts. 
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY WITH CHRIS WALLACE Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland; Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey; Senator Arlen Specter, Democrat of Pennsylvania; Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama; and Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, discuss ''sweetheart deals'' in the Senate and the potential impact on health care legislation.
 10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, and Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, discuss the health care reform bills and the first year of the Obama administration.
 7 P.M. (CBS) 60 MINUTES Henry Crumpton, a former C.I.A. operative who ran the covert war on terror in Afghanistan after Sept. 11, describes using local forces to oust al Qaeda and its Taliban hosts -- a strategy he says is needed now in Pakistan, where terrorist leaders are hiding. Also, a look at an extreme sport in which enthusiasts don wing-suits, jump off mountains and glide down at speeds approaching 140 miles an hour.
 7 P.M. (ABC) THE SOUND OF MUSIC (1965) Don't be shy: singing along with Julie Andrews, above, is practically required. 
 8 P.M. (CBS) JESSE STONE: THIN ICE (2009) In the fifth installment of the film series, originally shown in March, Jesse Stone (Tom Selleck), the police chief of Paradise, Mass., is investigated by the Boston Police Department's internal-affairs division after he unwittingly becomes involved in a shootout on a Boston street that leaves his friend Captain Healy (Stephen McHattie) seriously wounded.
 8 P.M. (TNT) THE WIZARD OF OZ (1939) Dorothy and Toto on the Yellow Brick Road. They're not in Kansas anymore.
 8 P.M. (Discovery) EVEREST: BEYOND THE LIMIT Three consecutive episodes follow climbers, including John Golden, a onetime football player, and the former astronaut Scott Parazynski, as they make the first summit of the season -- and lose one of their own in the process.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) CRANFORD In Part 2 of this three-episode ''Masterpiece Classic'' presentation, based on the Victorian-era writings of Elizabeth Gaskell, a crime wave hits the drowsy 1840s British village, and a local vagrant (Dean Lennox Kelly) is blamed. Meanwhile, Matty (Judi Dench) reunites with Mr. Holbrook (Michael Gambon), whose advances she spurned years before.
 10 P.M. (Food Network) CUPCAKE WARS There's nothing sweet about this latest Food Network competition, in which participants get brutal with butter, cream and frosting bags. In this premiere episode, four bakers vie to have their treats presented at the Alma Awards, which celebrate the artistic achievements of Latinos in the United States.
 10 P.M. (13) BETWEEN THE FOLDS In this ''Independent Lens'' entry, artists and theoretical scientists abandon their careers to forge new lives as origami folders.
 10 P.M. (Sundance) ADAPTATION (2002) The director Spike Jonze and the writer Charlie Kaufman (along with his fictional twin, Donald, who is also credited with writing the screenplay) journey into metafiction in this movie about the two Kaufmans (Nicolas Cage, in both roles) and Susan Orlean (Meryl Streep), a writer for The New Yorker whose book ''The Orchid Thief'' inspired the film. Chris Cooper won an Oscar for best supporting actor for his role as an orchid obsessive; Ms. Streep earned a nomination. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (88%); TERRORISM (85%); ANIMAL WELFARE (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); DOGS (73%); CATS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TALIBAN (67%); AL-QAEDA (62%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (70%); PETER T KING (55%); RICHARD SHELBY (55%); ARLEN SPECTER (55%); JAMES CLYBURN (55%); MITCH MCCONNELL (55%); BOB MENENDEZ (55%); JIM DEMINT (55%); NEWT GINGRICH (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); DEVAL PATRICK (52%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



767 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: 2003: AFTER THE FLOOD

BYLINE: By LEON WIESELTIER. 
Leon Wieseltier is the literary editor of The New Republic.

 BODY:
Public life in America has never been gracious or rational, but sometime around 2003 we entered a new era of volatility and virulence. The causes were many. Foremost among them, of course, was the war in Iraq, an adventure that was justified mendaciously and executed incompetently, but may finally introduce an open and self-governing society into the Arab world and confer the blessing of political liberty upon the Shiites, the Sunnis and -- who cannot rejoice over this? -- the Kurds. 
 After ''shock and awe,'' I will never again be shocked and awed; but one's feelings about the origins of the war have no bearing upon one's analysis of its outcome. And after the extreme action came the extreme reaction. George W. Bush espoused the spread of freedom as an objective of American foreign policy, so many of his critics hardened their hearts toward the tyrannized peoples of the world and decided that democratization was another form of imperialism and that the fault for our mistakes lay in our moral vocabulary. ''Realism'' became the slogan of otherwise sensitive souls. Back and forth the debate went, more and more reflexively, more and more soaked in contempt, in a process of Manicheanization (forgive the ugly word, but it describes an ugly thing) that is not yet done. 
 A few months after the invasion President Bush signed into law a vast tax cut, thereby codifying a conception of political democracy that made room for economic (and for its influence, political) oligarchy. The implications of the tax cut (along with its predecessor two years earlier) were not merely economic. They were also moral and philosophical. It taught contempt for government -- the very government that was busy with the hallowed (and very expensive) task of protecting America and in less than a decade would come to the rescue of some of its wealthy despisers. How can you love the Constitution and hate the order that it created? 
 The tax cut sundered the American community with a sharp new sense of the classes, and of the gap between them, which was experienced less as a challenge and more as a fate. And if you insisted on the remediation of these injustices, you were guilty of ''populism,'' and later of ''socialism.'' As we became more cruel, we became more stupid. 
 It was also circa 2003 that the promised land of the Internet began to look increasingly like a wasteland. Finally we had a ''national conversation,'' and look at it! In our worship of the machine, we chose to exempt it from rudimentary standards of facticity and decency. Instead it became an engine of outrages and sensations. 
 The electronic mobs began to form: this was the perfect technology of polarization. We came to inhabit a culture of angels and devils, in which a person's first thoughts are his best thoughts, and the wildest statement of a belief is its best statement. Attention deficit disorder is no longer a disorder in America. It is a norm. Attention is now the disorder.
 Not long after the war began, I visited the extraordinary show of Leonardo's drawings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. I recall a feeling of sanctuary, particularly as I examined his sketches of infants, which was a theme that especially delighted me in those days. Then I came upon his designs for warfare, and then his representations of the deluge, his great diluvio. There was a gorgeous and terrifying sheet called ''Cataclysmic Deluge Striking a Town.'' My escape was over. Was not my own time also somewhat diluvian? It still is. The waters are still rising. There is too much history. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TAX LAW (86%); LEGISLATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



768 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: 2000: What Came First

BYLINE: By RICHARD FORD. 
Richard Ford is the author of ''The Lay of the Land.''

 BODY:
Do you even remember the year 2000? Do you really? The Millennium -- that great historical Edsel -- and all your Y2K gear the hardware store wouldn't take back? Little Elian Gonzalez being ''rescued'' by the feds and sent home to the Fidelistas? A bad year for coaches: Tom Landry died; Bobby Knight got fired. ''Cats'' closed after 18 tuneful years. Bill and Hillary Clinton were exonerated in the Whitewater brouhaha. Stamps cost 34 cents. The Yankees beat the Mets 4-1 in the World Series.
 There were some important things, too. The destroyer Cole was attacked in Yemen and 17 sailors died. The Concorde crashed. Two-thirds of the human genome was deciphered. Half our population growth was by then made up of immigrants. The Russians smashed Grozny in Chechnya. Consumers with ''luxury fever'' led our economy, and unemployment fell below 4 percent in March -- though neither of these lasted very long. A recession was cranking up. The Nasdaq fell 45 percent from January to March. Eight trillion dollars was quickly down the drain. 
 Of course, it's hard to make any 12-month period compose a clear picture. Composition is the arrangement of unequal things, John Ruskin wrote. Looked at that way, a year becomes a term of art.
 There was an election. Looking back at it today may not make us feel very good, though we've been living with its vivid consequences ever since: two wars we're still fighting, plus the black hole of off-the-books spending to finance them; the whole financial collapse that either is or isn't over yet; an even deeper cynicism about governance than normally typifies Americans. A general degrading of both our constitutional underpinnings and our public-spiritedness about ourselves. 
 Ten years on, I don't blame it all on George W. Bush. Bill Clinton's fingerprints were on a lot of it. Our own fingerprints were on all of it. Folly has long been a chronic and pervasive problem in governments, the historian Barbara Tuchman wrote in 1984. And you could argue Republicans might've done better to have ol' Al Gore to kick around for a term instead of eight dismal, worsening years with President Bush. They probably wouldn't have Barack Obama to fester over now (or Sarah Palin). They might also have a party that means something, and maybe even a majority in the House. 
 But if we're gauging a year's importance here, as seen from a decade's distance, it's impossible in terms of moral consequence to think of 2000 as anything but the critical year before 2001, when all that savagery rained down on us. We unhistorical Americans, spiritually encased in the present, are always disbelieving when the seeds of our woes are said to be long sewn in our own little patch. 
 But 2000, if it looks like anything now, looks like a year in which we proved ourselves not to be a completely thriving democracy but rather a dangerously ambivalent and inattentive one -- willing to let its presidential election be decided not by the voters but by a politicized court, willing to be apathetic about the outcome of our constitutional acts, willing to feel insulated from violence by our own putative rectitude in the world, willing to define life, liberty and pursuit of happiness as our right to bury our noses hubristically in our personal lives and public irrelevancies and do whatever we please. 
 Oh, I wouldn't argue that the year 2000 caused the year 2001 and all it wrought. That's just not true. But I would argue the milder point that the year 2000 left our country perilously adrift and vulnerable. For countries, just as for citizens, it plainly matters what we do.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HISTORY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); SARAH PALIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); YEMEN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



769 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITICS' CHOICE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: New CDs

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
MIKADO LAB
 ''Coracao Pneumatico''
 (Tone of a Pitch)
 Mikado Lab, a sort-of jazz group based in Lisbon and led by the drummer Marco Franco, collapses the kitschy and the sublime, never losing grip on a complex, fragile, low-key sensibility. ''Coracao Pneumatico'' (''Pneumatic Heart'') is the young band's second album; it came out in the fall on the Portuguese label Tone of a Pitch, but has so far been just about invisible, unreviewed, unloved. I can't imagine why. 
 This record tunes into the kind of subtle rhythmic physics lesson that's become widespread in recent jazz: the long, patient melodic line, poised somewhere between even, baroque phrases and spilling, cathartic overflow as it moves through chord changes over steady backbeats. The keyboardist Ana Araujo plays her lines on acoustic and electric piano in bone-dry straight eighth notes. (A guest pianist, Bernardo Sassetto, makes an appearance with deliciously exaggerated affect -- somewhere between Erroll Garner and semiclassical mood music -- in ''O Passado Foi Agora.'') The guitarist Andre Matos, on the other hand, who now lives in New York and sounds like it -- one suspects he's spent long nights studying Ben Monder and Kurt Rosenwinkel --plays the role of the straight man, the reliably modern jazz improviser, making his lines flow up and down the whole of his instrument. On one track, ''Separador,'' there's a skillful improvising jazz singer. It's Mr. Franco, as far as I can tell from the album credits, but his voice has been digitally altered into chipmunk range.
 Mr. Franco, who's responsible for writing all of this music, plays drums quietly and economically, with the bassist Pedro Goncalves planting abrupt, trebly notes in the maw of the groove like a reggae musician; Ms. Araujo's organ chords indicate the movement of the gorgeous harmony. (I don't know whose harmonies inspire Mr. Franco, but I hear echoes of Bach, the Beach Boys' ''Pet Sounds,'' some '70s progressive rock and Henry Threadgill.) The record closes with ''A Case for Hope'' -- a short recording of a speech made in Lisbon by the philosopher Terence McKenna, about the ''modern inflation of the ego'' and the difficulties of predicting the future; under it flows more of this strange, nonegotistical, futuristic music. (The album is available on download from mikadolab.bandcamp.com.) BEN RATLIFF

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (91%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); POP & ROCK (77%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (54%) PORTUGAL (58%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



770 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITICS' CHOICE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: New CDs

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
RAKIM
 ''The Seventh Seal''
 (Ra/SMC)
 For most rappers it would be presumptuous to instruct ''How to Emcee,'' as Rakim does in the opening track of ''The Seventh Seal,'' his first album since 1999. But far more than most hip-hop boasters, Rakim is entitled. In the mid-1980s, teamed with the disc jockey Eric B., Rakim revolutionized hip-hop by raising every technical parameter: replacing simple chants with shifty syncopated rhythms, adding internal rhymes within couplets, using far more polysyllables than profanities and introducing a verbal density that led hip-hop to its intellectual peak. In ''How to Emcee,'' he demonstrates by way of advice: ''Slam thoughts on the canvas/Flip 'em and pin 'em/metaphors and similes and synonyms in 'em.'' 
 Then again, Rakim was already bragging about his significance throughout ''The 18th Letter'' in 1997 and its thinner, perhaps rushed follow-up, ''The Master,'' in 1999. Now, after a decade-long gap between albums -- which included an abortive collaboration with Dr. Dre, changes of label and various guest appearances -- Rakim resumes his old high seriousness and determined virtuosity on ''The Seventh Seal.'' 
 But there are snags. Like every successful innovator, he faces rivals who have studied and absorbed his methods; he no longer stands so alone. And by choice or (more likely) with the budget constraints of an independent label, ''The Seventh Seal'' is produced largely by unknowns who aren't exactly trailblazing.
 Most tracks supply the minor chords and foreboding strings and piano of typical gangsta rap, with insistent hook singers adding clutter; ''How to Emcee,'' with its swinging beat, is an exception. And much of the subject matter is equally routine. Rakim boasts about his influence, compares hip-hop to drug dealing, claims street credibility, savors sex and proclaims his hip-hop loyalty. 
 Rakim, at 41, is a grown-up now. ''Message in the Song'' recognizes that poverty breeds crime but warns dealers and thugs that ''drug money and blood money got a price.'' ''Man Above'' is a statement of faith (though ''Holy Are U'' is Rakim praising himself). In ''You and I'' Rakim takes a typically hard-headed approach to a marriage he wants to last ''till we sprawled out in coffins,'' and ''Dedicated'' is his eulogy to his mother, using a sample from No Doubt's ''Don't Speak.'' In ''Won't Be Long,'' Rakim starts with his latest career summation and moves to the state of the nation: 
 With these days of recession we ain't safe yet
 Pray a paycheck away from the Great Depression
 Major stressin' but we wait for blessings
 As long as the Federal Reserve's still paper pressin'.
 He still commands the discipline, skills and microphone presence he brought to hip-hop in the 1980s. But if he's only going to get around to releasing one album per decade, it should be more than a holding action. JON PARELES

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rakim appearing at the Highline Ballroom in New York in August. A hip-hop veteran, he has released his first album since 1999.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE CONZO/RETNA)
 PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAP MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); BUDGETS (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



771 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Grosses Shatter Record

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Hollywood's last weekend of the year was its best ever, as James Cameron's 3-D ''Avatar'' surged past ''Sherlock Holmes,'' an action romp with Robert Downey Jr. in the lead role, for top position in a film lineup that took in a record $278 million at the domestic box office.
 The film industry had previously seen its highest dollar figure for a three-day weekend in July 2008, when ''The Dark Knight'' led an array of summer movies that had $260.8 million in ticket sales. 
 Fox scored an exceptionally strong second weekend with ''Avatar,'' which had $75 million in ticket sales, down just 2.5 percent from its $77 million opening the previous weekend, for a total of $212.3 million in domestic ticket sales. It added another hit with ''Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel,'' an animated comedy that had an estimated $50.2 million in domestic ticket sales in its first weekend, and $77 million since opening on Wednesday.
 Bert Livingston, Fox's senior vice president for distribution, said ''Avatar'' was being driven by what he called ''exceptional'' word-of-mouth recommendations. 
 ''Do I have a number? No,'' Mr. Livingston said of the ultimate box-office prospects for the movie, which represents 15 years of work by Mr. Cameron and hundreds of millions of dollars in investment by Fox. But Mr. Livingston said he expects the film to pass the $300 million mark at the domestic box office quickly, and perhaps to challenge the $533 million in ticket sales for ''The Dark Knight,'' though probably not the $600 million taken in by Mr. Cameron's ''Titanic'' a decade earlier.
 ''Sherlock Holmes,'' which was directed by Guy Ritchie, took in $65.4 million on its opening weekend for Warner Brothers, to place second after having briefly edged slightly ahead of ''Avatar'' on Christmas Day.
 That performance cemented Warner's lead in the domestic box office rankings among studios. Boosted by hits like ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince'' and ''The Hangover,'' Warner captured roughly 20 percent of domestic ticket sales for the year, comfortably outpacing all of its rivals, according to a count from the Web site Boxofficemojo.com.
 ''It's Complicated,'' a comedy directed by Nancy Meyers with Meryl Streep, Alec Baldwin and Steve Martin in lead roles, placed fourth, with $22.1 million in ticket sales in its opening weekend for Universal Pictures and Relativity Media. Paramount Pictures' ''Up in the Air,'' directed by Jason Reitman, with George Clooney in a starring role, was the weekend's fifth-ranked film, with $11.8 million in sales, for a total of $24.5 million since its opening; it made its debut in a handful of theaters on Dec. 4 and went into wide release on Dec. 23. 
 Aided by a steady rise in ticket prices, Hollywood has taken in $10.4 billion at the box office this year, moving well past a previous full-year record of $9.68 billion set in 2007, according to Hollywood.com's box office reporting service. But a few years earlier in the decade it actually made more money when the totals are adjusted for inflation.
 Total sales are expected to be about 1.4 billion tickets for the full year, up about 5 percent from 1.3 billion last year, though still well short of the 1.6 billion mark set in 2002, Hollywood.com said.
 For a second year, the robust performance by a wide field of films pointed toward a strong first quarter at the box office. Christmas hits tend to play for weeks, as the audience catches up with competing pictures through the holidays and early January.
 In 2009 double-digit increases in box office results through the first quarter helped offset declines from DVD revenue, while feeding the film industry's shift away from dramas that play well on home video toward event films like the science-fiction thriller ''Avatar,'' whose state-of-the-art effects demand to be seen in a theater.
 ''Avatar'' has been helped by a steady increase in the number of screens using 3-D technology from companies like RealD and Imax. Over the weekend, for instance, 179 Imax theaters contributed $8.8 million to the film's domestic ticket sales, for a total of $28 million in domestic Imax sales since the film opened.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jake (Sam Worthington) and Neytiri (Zoe Saldana), in James Cameron's film ''Avatar.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY 20TH CENTURY FOX)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (92%); FILM (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); COMEDY FILMS (79%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ANIMATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (65%); CHRISTMAS (50%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL PICTURES (50%)

PERSON: JAMES CAMERON (89%); GEORGE CLOONEY (59%); ALEC BALDWIN (59%); MERYL STREEP (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



772 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Amid Budget Woes, California Coaches Are Paying a Price

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

DATELINE: FULLERTON, Calif. 

 BODY:
The best work done this year by Jill Hicks, the Cal State Fullerton gymnastics coach, did not involve a balance beam, a pommel horse or uneven parallel bars. It entailed shoe shopping and a manicure. Hicks was out recruiting the Olympic all-around gold medalist Nastia Liukin to ask for her help in saving Fullerton's program, which the university was threatening to eliminate to make its budget.
 The two women, introduced by another college coach, hit it off well enough that Liukin donated her time and a leotard -- the one she wore during the 2007 world championships -- to a fund-raiser that helped generate close to $30,000 for Hicks's program.
 The $400-a-plate luncheon with Liukin followed by an exhibition with the Fullerton and U.C.L.A. gymnastics teams drew about 1,000 supporters, most of them little girls in pigtails and their parents. 
 ''Programs like this really remind you how important sports -- gymnastics, for example, in Southern California -- are to a community,'' Dr. Robert L. Palmer, the university's athletic director, said at the end of the show. ''It re-energizes you to be creative.''
 The powers of creativity in the state education system are being tested like never before as California copes with a crippling budget crisis. Education has been particularly hard hit with $8.1 billion in funding cut this year. The next fiscal year, which begins in July, is expected to be worse. 
 Athletic departments in the University of California and the California State University systems have not been immune. Most coaches and administrators have taken furloughs and pay cuts, just as professors and staff have been. Budgets have been slashed, sports have been dropped and sharp tuition hikes -- 32 percent at U.C. schools next year -- have resulted in skyrocketing scholarship costs.
 The Cal football team, instead of flying to Los Angeles for a game against U.C.L.A. earlier this season, took buses, saving close to $30,000. San Jose State did the same when it played at U.S.C. 
 Rick Neuheisel, the U.C.L.A. football coach, uses a helicopter provided by a booster to zip around the Los Angeles area and watch recruits play on Friday nights. But he is among those who have taken a voluntary 10 percent reduction in salary -- about $25,000 -- even though they are exempt because they are under multiyear contracts.
 ''I feel like it's everybody's responsibility to do what they can,'' said Cal's football coach, Jeff Tedford, who volunteered to take a similar cut. ''I'm no different. I want to do what I can do to help along with everybody else.''
 The Cal State Fullerton track and cross-country coach, John Elders, could not be so magnanimous. Subject to a mandatory 10 percent pay cut through furloughs, he no longer has a gardener come to his house. Instead, he uses his two furlough days each month to mow the lawn and trim the shrubs.
 ''I joke that I'm doing my own lawn now, but I'm still paying somebody,'' Elders said.
 The furloughs, more than anything else, have created consternation among coaches. They are mandatory at the Cal State schools, and while there is some flexibility, all coaches are expected not to report to work -- or take any home with them. In theory, that means no coaching, recruiting or any other business two days per month. In reality, it amounts to don't ask, don't tell.
 ''What are they going to do, take away our keys?'' said Keith West, the women's soccer coach at Cal State Northridge. ''As a coach, it's no different than what I tell my players: when you want to be great, you have to put in the extra work.''
 Randy Langejans, an associate athletic director at Long Beach State, keeps a calendar of the furlough dates for all 70 full-time coaches and staff in his department. The campus may be shut down, but if a basketball coach, for example, has a game that day, he or she must reschedule the furlough day. Each week Langejans sends out an e-mail message reminding people of their scheduled days off.
 ''It's complicated,'' Langejans said. ''In athletics, we're unique. We're not a normal 8-to-5 operation.''
 How the universities and the athletic departments deal with these matters differs from campus to campus, and sport to sport. Universities with revenue-generating sports like football and men's basketball receive only a small portion of their budget from state funds, usually 10 to 20 percent. But the economy also has affected ticket sales, sponsorship and private donations. 
 The Fresno State football team recently played before its smallest home crowd in 23 years. And at U.C.L.A., there were more than 2,000 empty seats at Pauley Pavilion when the Bruins hosted No. 1-ranked Kansas in men's basketball.
 Cal, which is planning to renovate its football stadium and build a new sports complex, is expecting a $6.4 million shortfall. That this comes despite a projected $6 million subsidy has earned the wrath of students and the academic senate, who have questioned the university's priorities.
 At the colleges that do not play football, the enthusiasm for funding athletics is also weak. Last spring, referendums to increase funding for sports were voted down by students at Long Beach State, Cal State Northridge and Cal State Fullerton, all predominantly commuter schools.
 ''You've got the 32 percent fee increase for students, I'm giving 7 percent of my salary back to the state,'' said Vince O'Boyle, the track and cross-country coach at U.C. Irvine, which dropped five sports over the summer. ''All of a sudden, you ask, where is it going to stop?''
 The budget crisis resonates with the Hicks family -- Jill, the gymnastics coach, and her husband, Dan, the wrestling coach at Fullerton.
 Athletic Director Brian Quinn told them last May that the university would probably drop both sports.
 Within days, the Hickses had a plan. Eliminating the sports would save $60,000 on wrestling and $90,000 on gymnastics because scholarships already allocated would be honored and because they were guaranteed their salaries through the academic year. They proposed a stay of their programs if they could raise the operating budgets by the start of school. They were told that was O.K., but that wrestling would have to raise an additional $200,000 and gymnastics $280,000 by May 1, 2010, to continue.
 The gymnastics program got to its mark by the end of summer, thanks to $75,000 in contributions from USA Gymnastics, which put word out to its members that the program was in jeopardy. The wrestling program needed longer, but made the mark -- in part thanks to an invitational last month that packed the university's 4,000-seat gym and elicited a $14,000 check from a local doctor.
 ''Nobody wants to take away opportunities,'' said Quinn, the athletic director. ''We want them to make it.''
 The Hickses, whose salaries have each been reduced by 10 percent through furloughs, say the prospect of losing their jobs does not weigh heavily on them. Their two eldest children are in college, and their youngest is a high school senior. 
 ''We have our moments,'' Jill said. ''But we have a real peace that we're doing the best we can.''
 Dan, a sports psychologist and former two-time N.C.A.A. wrestling champion at Oregon State, said: ''We just try to stay focused on the goal. We don't want our sports to die. Somebody's got to fight back.''
 When Dan took over in 2004, the wrestling team had not won a dual meet in the Pac-10 (in which it competes in wrestling) in five years. Two years ago, the Titans won the conference dual meet championship. Jill, in her third season, was the 2007 coach of the year in the Western Athletic Conference (in which Fullerton competes in gymnastics) and her team carried a 3.6 grade-point average last year.
 More and more, however, they are being pulled away from the gym and toward fund-raising. Soon it may be a requirement.
 Peter Vidmar, the chairman of USA Gymnastics, is working on creating a seminar on fund-raising for college coaches. ''They want to teach the balance beam -- that's why you get into coaching -- but they need to know how to find donors,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Olympic champion Nastia Liukin at a fundraiser for the Cal State Fullerton gymnastics program. The team's coach had sought her help.(D1)
 Gymnasts from Cal State Fullerton and U.C.L.A. teamed for a fund-raiser for Fullerton. Some coaches have to deal with furloughs or pay cuts as universities and colleges try to save money.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON REDMOND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GYMNASTICS (91%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); OLYMPICS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); TUITION FEES (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); HELICOPTERS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



773 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 483 words

BYLINE: By TRYMAINE LEE

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 Seeking Jackpot
 In Down Economy
 ''Everybody wants to hit it big; that's why they gamble,'' said Brian Wagner, hunched over a meal in a restaurant at the Empire City Casino at Yonkers Raceway. ''But that's why they call it gambling, because it's a sucker's bet.'' 
 Mr. Wagner, a big, barrel-chested man of 56, said he had curtailed his gambling habit since the economy took a downward spiral.
 He is betting less and taking fewer trips down to Atlantic City, opting for the more convenient Empire City.
 He is also spending more time on the sidelines.
 ''I'm watching my girlfriend gamble more than ever,'' he said with a mischievous grin.
 Still, others are upping their ante in the hope of a windfall, from Empire City to the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens to the local bodega.
 At Laxmi Grocery on Eighth Avenue near 53rd Street in Manhattan, Nick Choudhury was among the lottery crowd.
 ''I spend almost $5 a day at least, seven days a week,'' Mr. Choudhury, 27, said. ''The economy is bad, and you have bills to pay, like your rent, cellphone bills and other stuff.''
 William Betts, who said his lottery habit had remained steady since long before the recession, said that despite the seemingly skewed rationale of struggling people gambling with their hard-earned cash, it all came down to hopes and dreams.
 ''People are looking for something,'' Mr. Betts said. ''And they figure that playing the lottery, their dream will come true.''
 The afternoon at the Aqueduct racetrack played out like a scene from an old black-and-white movie. Men sat in the bleachers overlooking the track with stubby cigars in their mouths, their eyes scanning the day's racing form. Tattered betting slips littered the ground and swirled in the wind, whipping about the feet of hard-luck bettors.
 A man who gave his name only as Flex -- Flex K., to be precise -- said tough times had forced his hand.
 ''See, I gamble more to make up for my lost wages, money that's not coming in,'' Flex, 30, said. ''I figure, I come here, and if I come up big one time I'll be good,'' he added. ''I'll start my own business and go on.''
 Minutes later, as the horses crossed the finish line, the air was peppered with cheers and curses. Flex threw his arms open with a half-hearted smile that declared his fate.
 ''You see that?'' he said. ''The ball bounces and I don't win.'' TRYMAINE LEE 
 NEW YORK
 DAYBOOK
 Parking Rules
 Because of New Year's Day, alternate-side and parking meter rules are suspended on Friday.
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Jack McFadden, who is known as Skippy and who is the head talent buyer at Union Hall and the Bell House in Park Slope, Brooklyn, will be responding to readers' questions about New York City clubs, the music scene in the last 15 years, and his career promoting and booking. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Trying their luck at the Empire City Casino in Yonkers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKO GEORGIEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); LOTTERIES (89%); GAMING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); HORSE RACING (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



774 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SAN DIEGO JOURNAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Residents Rally to Keep Beach Fires Burning

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO 

 BODY:
Families, students, newlyweds, mourners -- beachgoers of all sorts -- toast themselves and marshmallows around blazing fires in pits that dot beaches and shoreline parks here.
 ''In a city this big,'' said Steve West, stoking the flames of his fire one recent evening, ''this is what makes a place like this special.''
 Now, throw another log on the bonfire of budget casualties. San Diego officials have decided to remove the fire pits -- and, their partisans lament, a slice of the city's soul as well -- to help close a $179 million budget deficit. 
 When it comes to beach culture, San Diego has long prided itself on being just a little different from other towns, especially the big ones up north that hog all the attention.
 You can no longer drink alcohol on the beach here (it was banned last year) or smoke (snuffed three years ago). But the fire pits, though gradually diminished from 450 in the early 1990s to 186 now, remain embedded in the sand and the local culture.
 ''Bonfire, surfing, I grew up doing that,'' said John Johnston, 48, as he stewed over the city's plans by a fire with a few fishing buddies.
 The city, which says it spends about $121,000 a year cleaning and maintaining the pits, has also trimmed library hours, scheduled 200 layoffs and made other cuts. But the prospect of extinguishing a beloved tradition has ignited some of the loudest passion.
 A Facebook cause with more than 4,000 members has emerged. A Web site, Save the Fire Pits of San Diego, is also seeking to rally the faithful. The OB Rag, a blog devoted to the city's Ocean Beach neighborhood, is trying to galvanize residents to ''adopt'' the eight or so pits there, the way groups sponsor highway cleanups. And a community group in La Jolla, another section of the city, hopes to raise money to keep all the pits in place.
 ''What's it going to be next?'' asked Hans Baumgartner, a founder of the fire pits Web site. ''They keep saying other cities have done it. We're not other cities. We're San Diego.''
 Last year's budget was bad, too, but an anonymous donor came through with money to keep the fire pits in place until next June. The city has received about $1,600 this time around, far short of the amount it says it needs to maintain the pits.
 ''There is no more low-hanging fruit here,'' Stacey LoMedico, the city parks director, said of the decision to remove the pits in July.
 The state parks department, suffering its own fiscal woes, also plans to remove fire rings at several beaches, though an informal tally by beachcalifornia.com shows that 29 of 108 state parks with beaches still allow them. Newport Beach, north of here in Orange County, backed off a plan last year after a public outcry similar to the one here.
 But so far, the City of San Diego is not budging. Ms. LoMedico called removing the fire pits a ''very tough decision'' but noted that people could still bring their own grills to the beaches, something veteran roasters say is just not the same as a blaze in the 5-foot-by-5-foot, 15-inch-deep pits.
 Cleaning the pits, she said, is a meticulous and labor-intensive job, in part because the sand sullied by the fires is deemed hazardous waste. Every week, a front-loader lifts the 2,000-pound pit casings, workers scrape and scrub off the sand and carry off the after-party detritus -- charred wood, broken glass, partly cooked meat, trash. One longtime beach observer said he once saw a couch aflame in a pit.
 The pits, Ms. LoMedico said, are simply a low priority in a city stuck in economic doldrums.
 Aside from the recession, which has dampened the housing market and tourism and the tax dollars they spawn, the city is still coping with the aftershock of a mismanaged municipal pension fund in the early years of the decade that left its finances in disarray.
 As the pits have dwindled, the romanticizing of them seems to grow, but even supporters admit they are not always the source of wholesome fun.
 Other cities that have scaled back or gotten rid of their pits have said they present safety problems to passers-by who might trip over them or get burned by leftover embers.
 Bonfire parties here can get loud and rowdy, and a few pit supporters said they suspected that the city was using the budget problems as cover for getting rid of an occasional nuisance. The matter may end up before the California Coastal Commission, a state panel with extensive powers over beach use and access that is not always friendly to municipal governments.
 The commission sent a letter to San Diego officials advising that the commission might need to issue a permit for the pits to be removed; city officials plan to take up the matter with the commission's staff members early next month.
 The commission, known for lengthy study before rendering decisions, could demand hearings. Some supporters of the fire pits suggest such a public airing of the plan might expose what they consider the city's inflated cost estimates and failure to consider alternatives to removal, like only cleaning the pits during peak use in the summer.
 Regardless of the outcome, some find the whole debate disheartening.
 ''San Diego,'' Mr. Johnston said, ''is just much less fun.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CONTROVERSY: San Diego plans to remove fire pits like this one on Ski Beach, to save money. Opponents of the plan say part of the city's soul will be extinguished as well. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); BEACHES (90%); STATE PARKS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (53%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



775 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Cellphone Companies Rush to Sue One Another

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
When Nokia, the world's largest maker of mobile phones, sued Apple, Samsung, LG and eight other competitors within six weeks beginning in October, it said it was conducting a routine defense of its intellectual property.
 But for cellphone makers and suppliers accustomed to swapping valuable technologies, the suits filed by Nokia were far from standard. 
 Like many cellphone makers, Nokia is fighting the economic downturn. The company, which is based in Finland, has laid off thousands of employees this year to counter falling sales and profit and its slipping share of the global market, which fell to 35 percent in the third quarter, from 41 percent in the second. 
 Bill Tai, a partner at Charles River Ventures, a technology investment firm, said the new legal aggressiveness was ''a natural evolution'' similar to what took place in the semiconductor and desktop computer businesses during difficult or competitive times. 
 ''As competition has intensified and margins have deteriorated, companies are trying to put up barriers to protect their positions,'' said Mr. Tai, whose firm has invested about $2 billion in technology start-ups since 1970. 
 The mobile industry, since its inception, has been a legal battleground. In 2008, Nokia settled a suit with Qualcomm, a United States maker of mobile phone chips, and agreed to pay an estimated $400 million a year for Qualcomm patents over 15 years. According to recent financial reports, nearly all cellphone makers are suing or being sued.
 Research In Motion, the maker of the BlackBerry, is suing Motorola, accusing it of using 20 of its patents; Motorola has countersued. Palm is being sued by Saxon Innovations, a patent licensing company in Tyler, Tex., over a third-party application processor. In March, Apple won a ruling in Japan against Shigeru Saito Architecture Institute, which had sued over touch-screen patents.
 ''Nokia has been very active of late, and in general, there has been an increase in litigation in the industry,'' said Clive D. Thorne, an intellectual property lawyer at Arnold & Porter in London. ''There is an attempt to gain technical advantage. Mobile technology is fast-moving. The commercial life of products is limited. There is urgency in ensuring that I.P. rights are protected.''
 In October, Nokia filed suit against Apple in United States District Court in Delaware, accusing the company of violating 10 of Nokia's third-generation wireless patents with the iPhone. Then, in the United States and Britain, Nokia accused Samsung, LG, Philips, Sharp and others of operating a cartel to keep LCD screen prices high.
 Louise Pentland, Nokia's chief legal officer, said the company's legal strategy had not changed. What has, she said, is the dynamics of the mobile phone business: increasing boundary testing by industry newcomers and suppliers, in addition to convergence of mobile Internet, information technology and other industries.
 ''The litigation is not the driver,'' Ms. Pentland said in an interview. ''It is the business environment that has changed.''
 Another reason for the rise in litigiousness is the increase in the number of patents sought by makers of mobile phones and equipment in their relentless quest for the cutting edge, said Ian Drew, an executive vice president at ARM, a company in Britain that has licensed its Cortex cellphone chip designs to most of the world's cellphone makers and parts suppliers.
 ARM's clients, in turn, use its designs for their own products, which they inevitably seek to protect through patents. This so-called patent differentiation, Mr. Drew said, of everything from chips to touch-screen input methods, has created a legal landscape prone to conflict.
 ''In the mobile phone industry, there are lots of semiconductor and handset players jockeying for position at the moment,'' Mr. Drew said. ''Because there are so many smaller players, it is a more dynamic business and you are going to get the odd skirmish.''
 As cellphones become more like tiny computers, intellectual property will take on increasing importance to equipment makers in their quest for market advantage. 
 For example, the Rosum Corporation, a technology company that developed a method for pinpointing the physical location of mobile devices in dense urban areas with the aid of television broadcast signals, is vigorously protecting its investment. 
 Rosum, which is privately owned and based in Sunnyvale, Calif., has only 24 employees but has already obtained or applied for 71 patents.
 ''We have taken a great deal of care to protect our technology,'' said Todd Young, a vice president for business development at Rosum. ''We think it is critical to our business.''
 Such investments can be risky. When a company makes a patent infringement claim, it is often countersued by its opponent. And often, the costs can be so high as to make the legal victories almost worthless. 
 Nokia filed its suit against Apple more than two years after the iPhone went on sale, which suggested that the suit was a symbolic line in the sand, said Jan Ihrfelt, an analyst at Swedbank, one of the largest Swedish banks.
 ''There is no expectation that Nokia will gain a financial windfall from these lawsuits,'' he said. ''I think it was more Nokia trying to send a message.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 28 about legal battles among mobile phone companies implied incorrectly that lawsuits filed by Nokia last October and November against Apple, Samsung, LG and eight other competitors involved patent disputes. While Nokia is involved in numerous patent cases, the lawsuit filed against Apple was the only one of that group involving intellectual property issues. The others involved allegations of price-fixing for LCD screens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (92%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); PATENTS (89%); SMARTPHONES (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); 3G WIRELESS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); CARTELS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (73%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); SEMICONDUCTORS (68%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (62%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (94%); APPLE INC (92%); ARNOLD & PORTER LLP (56%); QUALCOMM INC (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (54%); LG DISPLAY CO LTD (51%)

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (94%); NOK1V (BIT) (94%); NOK (NYSE) (94%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); RIM (TSX) (54%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (54%); LPL (NYSE) (51%); 034220 (KSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



776 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: As Aisle Gets Wider, Arms Get Shorter

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It was a startling admission. A top congressman revealed that he had voted against an administration priority as a way to score political points as his party battled to regain power.
 The penitent was not a Republican confessing to a political stance against the health care overhaul or the economic stimulus measure this year. It was Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the House majority leader, conceding that he had irresponsibly opposed increases in federal borrowing authority during the Bush years in order to impugn Republicans while Democrats were fighting to regain the majority.
 Mr. Hoyer's frank acknowledgement that he had ''demagogued'' Bush-era debt-limit hikes, like the intense partisanship that has surrounded virtually every major Congressional matter this year from the stimulus plan to the health care overhaul, was illustrative of how the running battle for control of Congress is impeding cross-party cooperation. 
 Keenly aware from recent history that political missteps can cause big swings in the make-up of the House and Senate, members of the party out of power increasingly see little advantage in working with those controlling Congress to help them achieve victories that could come at the minority's expense. 
 Republicans have dug in almost unanimously this year against legislation that at least some should have been able to vote for, whether it was the economic stimulus, health care changes or a crackdown on Wall Street. Democrats did the same thing in the run-up to the 2004 and 2006 elections, with a new Medicare drug benefit providing an example of a policy many backed but did not support with their votes.
 ''Once you get in these battles where you break into camps, every vote is about the next election,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who occasionally works with Democrats on difficult issues. ''As soon as the last election is over, those who lost are thinking, 'What can I do to get back in power?' and those who won are thinking, 'What can I do to stay in power?' 
 ''When you try to solve problems from the perpetual campaign mind-set, it is very difficult,'' he said.
 Only solid majorities in the House and the Senate have allowed Democrats to advance their chief initiatives this year. But it has been a mighty struggle, and the size of the majorities, if not the majorities themselves, is in jeopardy in next year's elections.
 Mr. Graham, other lawmakers and Congressional analysts say serious philosophical differences are at play in the present fights, differences that become more pronounced as more ideologically driven factions gain party influence. But there is little doubt that the struggle for Congressional control is playing a major role in the current party stalemate.
 ''There is no question that partisan parity tends to raise the stakes of any particular election because of the potential for change in majority party control,'' said Thomas E. Mann, a Congressional expert at the Brookings Institution.
 While partisanship is a constant in Congress, the unwillingness of the parties to work together seems to be reaching new levels. Some trace the beginning of the current trend back to the early 1990s, when House Republicans were trying to break out of their virtually permanent minority status.
 Much to the distress of more rebellious Republicans, House Republicans who had never tasted life in power tended to try to cooperate with Democrats as their best chance of getting things done. It was not uncommon for top Democrats and Republicans to have close and cordial relationships.
 But former Speaker Newt Gingrich and his allies showed that drawing the sharpest possible contrasts with the opposition could pay political dividends as they gained control of the House, and the see-saw fight for the Congressional upper hand began.
 At the same time, a political toll was being taken on the centrist Democrats and Republicans who were most prone to compromise. Many left Congress or were defeated.
 Sherwood Boehlert, a centrist Republican from New York, left the House in 2006. He said the partisanship had become too pervasive and made it all but impossible to reach across party lines, as he tried to do on issues like automotive mileage standards.
 ''Now if a Republican is seen working on something with a Democrat, you are seen as a heretic,'' said Mr. Boehlert, who tries to create consensus approaches at the Bipartisan Policy Center.
 Democrats drew their own stark lines in 2003 when Republicans and the Bush administration coalesced around adding prescription drug coverage to Medicare, an expansion Democrats had sought for years. The plan, which Democrats criticized for its generous subsidies to health insurers, was endorsed by AARP, but House Democrats sought to keep their members from voting for it, though 16 did in the end. 
 Many leading Democrats are convinced that Republicans have made a strategic decision to oppose important Democratic initiatives as a way to set up the 2010 midterm elections. They say nothing can be done on a policy level to attract significant Republican support -- even though some Republicans favor the underlying concepts.
 As the Senate prepared to vote on Thursday for the Democratic health care proposal, Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, chastised Republicans as viewing ''our health care crisis through a political lens, because affording to live a healthy life isn't about politics or partisanship or polling.''
 Republicans say their opposition is based on substantive differences. But Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said Sunday that he expected the midterm elections to be driven in large part by the health care votes.
 ''It will be a huge political issue next year,'' Mr. McConnell said on the ABC program ''This Week,'' predicting the issue would spill over into 2012 as well.
 Even with partisan clashes likely to worsen in 2010, Mr. Graham said Congress needed to find a way to get past the mind-set that ''if the other guy wins, I lose'' and find a way to deliver legislation more equivalent to a win-win.
 Mr. Hoyer, as he owned up this month to his own political sins on the House floor, expressed a similar view, saying lawmakers needed to quit reflexively voting no against their rivals.
 ''Very frankly, my friends, we have to stop that,'' he said. ''We have to stop it for whoever is in charge, because Americans expect better of us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Mitch McConnell and James E. Risch are part of a Republican caucus that has been unbending in its opposition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); DEBT CEILING (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); MEDICARE (71%)

PERSON: STENY HOYER (73%); JIM RISCH (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



777 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: The Recession Begins Flooding Into the Courts

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

 BODY:
New York State's courts are closing the year with 4.7 million cases -- the highest tally ever -- and new statistics suggest that courtrooms are now seeing the delayed result of the country's economic collapse. The Great Recession may be showing signs of easing, but the legal fallout from the financial troubles, the numbers suggest, may have only just begun. 
 And the increase in New York offers a preview of the recession-related cases showing up in courts across the nation.
 New York's judges are wading into these types of cases by the tens of thousands, according to the new statistics, cases involving not only bad debts and soured deals, but also filings that are indirect but still jarring measures of economic stresses, like charges of violence in families torn apart by lost jobs and homes in jeopardy. 
 Contract disputes statewide in 2009 are projected to be up 9 percent from the year before. Statewide home foreclosure filings increased 17 percent, to 48,127 filings. Cases involving charges like assault by family members were up 18 percent statewide. While serious crime remains low, misdemeanor charges in New York City were up 7 percent and lesser violations were up 18 percent in 2009.
 Judges and lawyers say the tales behind any number of cases, including low-level offenses like turnstile jumping and petty theft, are often a barometer of bad times. And they said that the data showed that courts nationally would be working through the recession's consequences for years, much as they did with the flood of cases stemming from the crack cocaine epidemic of the 1980s, even after the epidemic had slowed.
 ''Society's problems come to us,'' New York's chief judge, Jonathan Lippman, said. ''We are the emergency room for society.''
 For most court systems nationally, official tallies of cases filed since the 2008 economic collapse are not yet complete. But the New York data, compiled by state court officials after a request from The New York Times, provide an early measure of the wave of recession cases nationally. 
 Florida officials say there were some 400,000 foreclosure filings there this year, an increase of 446 percent since 2006. In Arizona, officials say eviction cases have tripled in the last year, contract disputes are up 77 percent over the last two years, and there is a notable increase in cases seeking to commit people for mental health treatment because of stress-related conditions.
 ''The New York experience is representative. That's what we are seeing here,'' said John T. Broderick Jr., the chief justice of New Hampshire's Supreme Court, adding that many divorce, petty crime and domestic violence cases seem to have their roots in financial troubles.
 Steve C. Hollon, an Ohio court official who is president of the Conference of State Court Administrators, said court officials nationally had noticed a growing number of people saying their circumstances were so desperate that they could not afford lawyers, turning virtually every kind of case into a journey through the economy's rough edges.
 The new statistics in New York show the breadth of the recession-related cases -- in family, criminal and commercial courts and on across the judicial system. The cases turn the courts into theaters of the economic crisis.
 Court administrators said it is likely they have seen only the first wave of recession cases because courtroom battles take time to brew. They said they were bracing for more suits over business disputes, foreclosures, evictions and family disputes as the costs of the downturn continued to be revealed. 
 New York's projected caseload this year has risen by some 63,000 cases from last year, which would appear to be a modest increase. But court administrators say the broad impact of the recession is clear in hundreds of thousands of new cases across the judicial system, including people challenging their real estate taxes, home foreclosures, contract disputes and family offenses. The 17 percent increase in statewide home foreclosure filings, for example, is part of an 84 percent climb over the last four years, to nearly 50,000.
 The city's Civil Courts, where suits seeking less than $25,000 are heard, have seen caseloads balloon to more than 577,000 this year, from about 200,000 10 years ago. Court administrators say much of the increase is because of suits over unpaid credit card bills. 
 ''Until you're standing amidst 40 people who are worried about losing their homes, you can't really appreciate how significant the whole downturn was,'' said Hilary J. Bauer, a lawyer for the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged who represents homeowners facing foreclosure. 
 Court cases need not be about money to offer a measure of the recession's impact, said a Family Court judge, Pam Jackman-Brown. From her bench in Queens, she said, every day she sees formerly middle-class families wrenched by anger and fear. A judge, she said, does not always have the answer when family anxiety turns into tussles and shoves, and then into charges of assault or menacing. 
 ''I am seeing the ripple effects that destroy the family structure,'' Judge Jackman-Brown said. 
 In her courtroom, she said, people who were once climbing corporate ladders describe cascading disappointments: phones shut off, child care no longer affordable, couples separated. ''You're trying to wrap your head around all of this,'' Judge Jackman-Brown said, ''trying to find something that works.'' 
 The ripple effects sometimes seem nearly infinite in the courts. New York judges are working through multimillion-dollar business deals that fell apart. They are processing what some judges call business divorces, the cases that can become as ugly as real divorces when partners turn on each other in bad times.
 A hotel development company struck by the downturn argued unsuccessfully in State Supreme Court a few months ago that the ''ongoing economic crisis'' was akin to an act of God that ought to entitle it to a break in its obligation to pay the owner of the Lower Manhattan plot where the hotel was to rise. 
 State Supreme Court in Manhattan is at the center of the financial collapse. The view from the bench there lately, judges said, is of one industry after another pushing through the debris left from the last year or so.
 Plaintiffs and defendants are the former high-flying hedge funds and investment banks, as well as the city's less glamorous businesses like restaurants and clothing manufacturers.
 ''Suppliers are ordering goods, and they end up not being able to pay,'' said a State Supreme Court justice, Bernard J. Fried.
 The Civil Courts hum with stories of people who got credit too easily, people who are no longer earning what they were and people who are no longer earning anything at all. Sometimes, the debtor is a lawyer or a banker. 
 A Manhattan Civil Court judge, Anil C. Singh, said he often sees people who cannot afford lawyers but who qualified for one credit card after another in the years when people seemed to think the economy could only go up. 
 The credit card cases, some judges say, are like the one-act plays of the recession, not as complex as the dramas of foreclosure, but concise and gripping. ''You see a lot of people,'' said another Civil Court judge, Peter H. Moulton, ''who have lost their jobs and were just a paycheck away from being destitute.''
 Nationally, court administrators say budget pressures are forcing them to do more with less. That is certain to be the challenge for New York's 1,253 state judges, said the state's chief administrative judge, Ann Pfau. 
 With legal emergencies everywhere, Judge Pfau said, ''we're going to have to be making choices.'' 
 Judge Singh of the Civil Court said that, from his bench, it was hard to see signs of a recovery. 
 ''I would describe it as a train wreck,'' he said, ''and I think it's going to get worse for the next couple of years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hilary J. Bauer, center, a lawyer for the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged, waited with clients who had a home foreclosure case at State Supreme Court in Jamaica, Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHARTS: Busy Courts: New York State courts are ending the year with the biggest caseload in their history, in part because of an increase in cases related to the recession. N.Y. STATE COURTS: TOTAL CASELOAD
 CASES THAT MAY BE RELATED TO THE RECESSION (Source: New York State Office of Court Administration) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MISDEMEANORS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); JUDGES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (78%); EVICTION (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); FORECLOSURE (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); LARCENY & THEFT (66%); MENTAL HEALTH (63%); COCAINE (50%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JEWISH ASSOCIATION FOR SERVICES FOR THE AGED (59%)

PERSON: JONATHAN J JUDGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



778 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: A Tentative Sparkle Enlivens Holiday Shopping

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM; Christopher Maag and Karen Ann Cullotta contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The nation's stores appear to have fared better this holiday shopping season than last year, according to early figures reported on Sunday. Major retailing categories had modest sales increases, while others fell slightly but still showed improvement. 
 Despite that promising news, some consumers interviewed in stores over the weekend said they were exchanging their Christmas presents for everyday necessities and were continuing to curb their spending -- suggesting that America's retailers were still recovering from the deep economic recession. 
 Over all, retail sales from November through Dec. 24 rose 3.6 percent from last year, according to SpendingPulse, an information service of MasterCard Advisors that estimates sales for all forms of payment, including cash, checks and credit cards. 
 That number -- which does not include sales of automobiles and gasoline -- was helped this year by an extra shopping day between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Adjusting the results for that extra day cuts the retailing industry's sales increase to about 1 percent, in line with what many retailing professionals expected. 
 While the numbers do not suggest a turnaround for the industry, they signal an improvement over last year's 2.3 percent sales decline.
 ''When you think of last year, the country really was in a free-fall mode,'' said Michael McNamara, vice president for research and analysis at SpendingPulse. ''This year a lot of these numbers are generally stable to mildly positive, which is a step in the right direction.''
 A clearer picture of consumer spending over the holiday season will emerge in January, when major chain stores report their December sales figures. 
 Matthew F. Katz, a managing director in the retailing practice of AlixPartners, a reorganization firm, said he expected December sales to be about the same as last year, or down slightly, after the final results are tallied. 
 ''We're going to be pleased that we're not seeing double-digit negatives,'' he said, but with the exception of major chains including Wal-Mart, Costco and Nordstrom, ''I don't think we'll see many on the positive side.''
 Whatever the outcome for the stores, consumers remain cautious, with some citing job losses and cuts to their work hours as reasons for buying fewer and more practical Christmas and Hanukkah gifts. On the typically big shopping days after Christmas, some consumers were in stores exchanging presents for everyday essentials. 
 ''I'll probably return most of the Christmas gifts I got,'' said Keith Browning, 50, who was shopping for jumper cables on Sunday at a Wal-Mart in Columbus, Ohio. 
 After working at a Honda plant for 13 years, his hours were cut back to such a degree, he said, that in June he took a buyout to leave his job. Now he is starting a painting and drywall company. 
 ''I'll return them for stuff I really need,'' he said of the gifts he received. ''This is not the year for silly stuff. My brother gave me a Wii video game. I'm definitely returning that. We need some new pots and pans for the house. And I need tools to get my company going.'' 
 Other shoppers in the Wal-Mart store were also mindful of their budgets. 
 ''Last year I did a lot of shopping after Christmas,'' said Margaret Kwartemaah, 32, who works at a different Wal-Mart store and popped in only to buy groceries. ''But this year, I'm not even looking. All the prices have gone up, and my pay has gone down.''
 The Saturday after Christmas is typically among the year's top 50 shopping days, Mr. McNamara said. It is particularly alluring for bargain-hunters looking to treat themselves. 
 ''I'm being practical today,'' said Robin Beck, 43, of Lake Villa, Ill., who on Saturday spent $30 on a half-price Wusthof knife set at a Crate & Barrel store in Deer Park. ''These are all new purchases, just for me,'' she added, holding up a pair of shopping bags.
 Retailers hope to lure consumers like Ms. Beck with after-Christmas discounts, though many shoppers said the deals were not as enticing as they were last year. That was to be expected, of course, as the stores have generally set their inventories in line with demand. 
 ''Last year was just a storm and retail was all about dropping prices to get rid of inventory,'' said Mr. Katz of AlixPartners. ''This year it was much more of a planned strategy: low inventories and tight expenses. And controlled promotions.''
 That means most stores did not erode their profit margins the way they did in 2008, though in the days before Christmas, Mr. Katz said, some chains discounted more deeply than they should have. 
 Perhaps the best news is that the double-digit declines that plagued nearly every retailing category last year are gone. Sales of luxury goods (not including jewelry) rose 0.8 percent this Christmas season, according to the preliminary figures, up from a more than 20 percent decline for the same period last year. Sales of jewelry rose 5.6 percent for the season, driven by both inexpensive and high-end baubles. Last year, jewelry sales plummeted by nearly 30 percent. 
 Shoes sales also improved, posting a 5 percent sales increase for the season. Sales of electronics increased almost 6 percent. And online sales continued to thrive, up 15.5 percent. 
 Sales of clothing declined 0.4 percent. Sales at department stores fell 2.3 percent. 
 Analysts said stores that lost business because of the recent snowstorms were able to make up some of those sales before Christmas. ''Because Christmas was late in the week, there was time for these sectors to recover,'' Mr. McNamara said. 
 Still, with consumers being much more thoughtful about their spending these days, industry professionals said the retailing shakeout is not over. 
 As Mr. Katz put it: ''There are going to be some liquidations in January.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers in Denver on Wednesday. Retailers did better than last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 Shoppers in Omaha had harsh weather on Christmas Eve. Sales rose in early estimates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); CREDIT CARDS (74%); THANKSGIVING (73%); HANUKKAH (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (77%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



779 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (TCM) TCM SPOTLIGHT: FRANK CAPRA Turner Classic Movies wraps up its monthlong salute to Capra, Hollywood's champion of the common man. The lineup begins with ''Broadway Bill'' (1934), in which an heiress (Myrna Loy) defies her father (Walter Connolly) by going into horse racing with her brother-in-law (Warner Baxter) -- a story Capra retells in ''Riding High'' (1950), with Coleen Gray and Bing Crosby, at 10. In ''Lady for a Day'' (1933), at midnight, a gangster (Warren William, above center, with Ned Sparks and May Robson) helps a Times Square apple vendor (Robson) pose as a society woman to fool her visiting daughter (Jean Parker). He remakes that story as well in ''Pocketful of Miracles'' (1961), starring Glenn Ford, Bette Davis and Ann-Margret, at 1:45 a.m. The tribute winds down at 4:15 with ''The Matinee Idol'' (1928), featuring Johnnie Walker as a Broadway star who auditions incognito for a local theater while marooned in the country, and ''Rain or Shine'' (1930), at 5:15, in which a young woman (Joan Peers) inherits her father's financially troubled circus. 
 8 P.M. (National Geographic) DOG WHISPERER ''Cesar Down Under'' follows Cesar Millan to Australia, where the fitness coach Paul Watson trains some of the country's finest athletes but can't stop his Great Dane, Willow, from biting him. Andrea and Adrian Lewis have the same problem with their bearded collie, Bonnie, but her victims are the other dogs in the park where they walk her.
 8 P.M. (ABC) PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: AT WORLD'S END (2007) Elizabeth (Keira Knightley), Will (Orlando Bloom) and the crew of the Pearl sail off the edge of the map to rescue Capt. Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp, above right, with Geoffrey Rush) and retrieve the heart of Davy Jones (Bill Nighy) from Lord Cutler Beckett (Tom Hollander) -- who is using it to control the sea.
 8:30 P.M. (ESPN) MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL The 40th season comes to a close as the Minnesota Vikings face off against the Chicago Bears at their home, Soldier Field. ''Monday Night Countdown'' begins at 7.
 8:30 P.M. (TV5Monde) PEKIN EXPRESS It's like ''The Amazing Race,'' only French, as 10 two-member teams travel to South America, where they will cross the continent from Rio de Janeiro to Lima, Peru, with a stop at the ancient Inca city of Machu Picchu. Their budget: 1 euro (roughly $1.44) a day. The payback is a prize of about $144,000.
 9 P.M. (13) LOUISA MAY ALCOTT: THE WOMAN BEHIND LITTLE WOMEN Alcott's reputation was that of a morally upstanding New England spinster. But as an intellectual protege of Emerson, Hawthorne and Thoreau, she was a free thinker with democratic ideals and progressive values where women were concerned. She also led a literary double life -- undiscovered until the 1940s -- writing scandalous, sensationalist works under the pseudonym A. M. Barnard. This ''American Masters'' presentation, directed by Nancy Porter, looks at Alcott as a woman ahead of her time. Elizabeth Marvel plays Alcott; Jane Alexander is Ednah Dow Cheney, her first biographer. 
 10 P.M. (Discovery) MOTOR CITY MOTORS This new series stops at the bike shop of the Detroit Brothers, a k a Dave and James Kaye, where each week they will assemble a new crew from unemployed auto workers to push the boundaries of automotive engineering as they try to complete a challenge in five days for $5,000. The first job: to transform a slow-rolling 1928 Ford Model T into a hot rod.
 10 P.M. (TNT) MEN OF A CERTAIN AGE The Thoreaus (Andre Braugher and Lisa Gay Hamilton) join Joe's former wife (Penelope Ann Miller) and her new boyfriend for a school charity function, where Terry (Scott Bakula) just happens to be the auctioneer and where one of his former female friends is lurking. Meanwhile Joe (Ray Romano) dines with his bookie.
 10:20 P.M. (Sundance) SLINGSHOT HIP HOP (2008) Jackie Salloum charts the growth of Palestinian hip-hop. Groups like DAM (from left above, Mahmoud Jreri, Tamer Nafar and Suhell Nafar) use music as a catalyst for self-esteem and to oppose Israeli occupation. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); FILM (90%); DOGS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (84%); SPORTS (84%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); HORSE RACING (73%); WOMEN (73%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: TV5 MONDE SA (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: KEIRA KNIGHTLEY (58%); JOHNNY DEPP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (51%) AUSTRALIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (67%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



780 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: The Big Zero

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Maybe we knew, at some unconscious, instinctive level, that it would be an era best forgotten. Whatever the reason, we got through the first decade of the new millennium without ever agreeing on what to call it. The aughts? The naughties? Whatever. (Yes, I know that strictly speaking the millennium didn't begin until 2001. Do we really care?)
 But from an economic point of view, I'd suggest that we call the decade past the Big Zero. It was a decade in which nothing good happened, and none of the optimistic things we were supposed to believe turned out to be true. 
 It was a decade with basically zero job creation. O.K., the headline employment number for December 2009 will be slightly higher than that for December 1999, but only slightly. And private-sector employment has actually declined -- the first decade on record in which that happened.
 It was a decade with zero economic gains for the typical family. Actually, even at the height of the alleged ''Bush boom,'' in 2007, median household income adjusted for inflation was lower than it had been in 1999. And you know what happened next.
 It was a decade of zero gains for homeowners, even if they bought early: right now housing prices, adjusted for inflation, are roughly back to where they were at the beginning of the decade. And for those who bought in the decade's middle years -- when all the serious people ridiculed warnings that housing prices made no sense, that we were in the middle of a gigantic bubble -- well, I feel your pain. Almost a quarter of all mortgages in America, and 45 percent of mortgages in Florida, are underwater, with owners owing more than their houses are worth. 
 Last and least for most Americans -- but a big deal for retirement accounts, not to mention the talking heads on financial TV -- it was a decade of zero gains for stocks, even without taking inflation into account. Remember the excitement when the Dow first topped 10,000, and best-selling books like ''Dow 36,000'' predicted that the good times would just keep rolling? Well, that was back in 1999. Last week the market closed at 10,520.
 So there was a whole lot of nothing going on in measures of economic progress or success. Funny how that happened.
 For as the decade began, there was an overwhelming sense of economic triumphalism in America's business and political establishments, a belief that we -- more than anyone else in the world -- knew what we were doing.
 Let me quote from a speech that Lawrence Summers, then deputy Treasury secretary (and now the Obama administration's top economist), gave in 1999. ''If you ask why the American financial system succeeds,'' he said, ''at least my reading of the history would be that there is no innovation more important than that of generally accepted accounting principles: it means that every investor gets to see information presented on a comparable basis; that there is discipline on company managements in the way they report and monitor their activities.'' And he went on to declare that there is ''an ongoing process that really is what makes our capital market work and work as stably as it does.''
 So here's what Mr. Summers -- and, to be fair, just about everyone in a policy-making position at the time -- believed in 1999: America has honest corporate accounting; this lets investors make good decisions, and also forces management to behave responsibly; and the result is a stable, well-functioning financial system. 
 What percentage of all this turned out to be true? Zero.
 What was truly impressive about the decade past, however, was our unwillingness, as a nation, to learn from our mistakes. 
 Even as the dot-com bubble deflated, credulous bankers and investors began inflating a new bubble in housing. Even after famous, admired companies like Enron and WorldCom were revealed to have been Potemkin corporations with facades built out of creative accounting, analysts and investors believed banks' claims about their own financial strength and bought into the hype about investments they didn't understand. Even after triggering a global economic collapse, and having to be rescued at taxpayers' expense, bankers wasted no time going right back to the culture of giant bonuses and excessive leverage.
 Then there are the politicians. Even now, it's hard to get Democrats, President Obama included, to deliver a full-throated critique of the practices that got us into the mess we're in. And as for the Republicans: now that their policies of tax cuts and deregulation have led us into an economic quagmire, their prescription for recovery is -- tax cuts and deregulation.
 So let's bid a not at all fond farewell to the Big Zero -- the decade in which we achieved nothing and learned nothing. Will the next decade be better? Stay tuned. Oh, and happy New Year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MILLENNIUM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); HOUSING MARKET (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); BESTSELLERS (50%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



781 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Branches of U.S. Universities Struggle in Dubai

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
The collapse of Dubai's overheated economy has left the outposts of Michigan State University and the Rochester Institute of Technology in the United Arab Emirates struggling to attract enough qualified students to survive.
 In the last five years, many American universities have rushed to open branches in the Persian Gulf, attracted by the combination of oil wealth and the area's strong desire for help in creating a higher-education infrastructure. Education City in Qatar has brought in Carnegie Mellon, Cornell, Georgetown, Northwestern, Texas A&M and Virginia Commonwealth. 
 Abu Dhabi, one of the seven emirates that make up the U.A.E. and the one that controls most of its oil, is still flourishing. And it is still generous in its support for the most ambitious American educational effort in the area, New York University's liberal-arts college, which is scheduled to open there next fall with a highly selective class of 100 young students from around the world. 
 In Dubai, however, the timing for Michigan State and the Rochester Institute of Technology could hardly have been worse. Both started classes in August 2008, just before Dubai's economy began to crumble. By this month, Dubai's debt problems were so serious that Dubai World, a government-owned investment company, avoided a bond default only with a $10 billion bailout from Abu Dhabi. 
 Because most Dubai residents are expatriates, thousands of them left when their jobs disappeared, and the prospective college-student pool in the area has shrunk substantially. ''Nobody could have anticipated the global meltdown, which has certainly had a negative effect on our student marketing,'' said Brendan Mullan, executive director of Michigan State Dubai. 
 Michigan State, with only 85 undergraduates, is seeking to raise that figure with a scholarship offering half-price tuition to the first 100 qualified transfer applicants for the semester that starts next month. 
 ''We've had close to 200 transfer applications, some from other universities in the U.A.E., but others from India, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Oman,'' Dr. Mullan said. ''We are not compromising on quality, even if that means it takes us longer to gain traction here. We actually turned down 30 percent of our applicants last fall.''
 Dr. Mullan said that while the break-even point for the campus was now expected to be five years, up from the original goal of three years, Michigan State was determined to remain in the Gulf. 
 ''We still believe this is viable and valuable,'' he said. ''We're not just going to be a teaching storefront here; we're going to have significant research capacity, and our commitment to Dubai is unyielding.''
 Rochester, which began only with graduate programs, accepted almost 100 students for this academic year. But Mustafa Abushagur, president of the Dubai campus, said it ended up with only about 50, spread among electrical engineering, computer networking, finance, and service and leadership studies. Rochester plans to start an undergraduate program next year, Dr. Abushagur said. 
 ''Our plan for next year is 100 to 120 students,'' he said, ''which we think we can get, because we've studied the market very closely and we believe that as an institution, we can distinguish ourselves in certain programs that are in demand here.'' 
 George Mason, one of the first American universities to open a branch in the United Arab Emirates, closed its Ras al Khaymah temporary campus in May, having never graduated a single student. 
 While the higher-education projects in Dubai face serious challenges, New York University's plans in Abu Dhabi are moving ahead smoothly, with Abu Dhabi even going so far as to fly in top high school seniors from around the world for two days of meetings with those at the university. 
 ''We've had a worldwide recruiting effort, identifying top candidates at high schools around the world,'' said Linda Mills, the N.Y.U. senior vice provost overseeing the Abu Dhabi admissions process. 
 The cost of attending for a year, with tuition and travel and living expenses, is about $63,000, but Ms. Mills said students would get enough financial aid that no student would have to graduate with debt. 
 ''We looked at the leading universities around the world,'' Ms. Mills said, ''and what we're offering is on a par with Swarthmore, which I think offers the most generous financial aid.''
 In fact, the head of the new Abu Dhabi campus is Alfred H. Bloom, the former president of Swarthmore, which has need-blind admissions, meets full financial need and, as of last year, replaced the loans in financial-aid packages with larger scholarships. 
 The admissions timetable has been somewhat different for the Abu Dhabi campus than the Greenwich Village one, with early-decision candidates having until Jan. 15 to accept a spot in the Gulf, and not expected to commit to Abu Dhabi without a visit. 
 Already, N.Y.U. has had more than 500 early-decision applicants for next year's inaugural class, and has admitted students from Australia, Brazil, Britain, China, Ethiopia, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Morocco, Russia and Taiwan. About 100 have already been flown to Abu Dhabi for a visit. 
 ''Everyone introduced themselves, in English and whatever language they wanted,'' Ms. Mills said. ''From French to Russian to Arabic to Hungarian, they'd say things like 'I traveled 30 hours to get here,' or 'I've never been on a plane before.' It was kind of a goose-bump moment.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Michigan State University outpost, in a building with other branches, is planning a scholarship offering half-price tuition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN CARTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (73%); BONDS (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); QATAR (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



782 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: When It's Cold Inside

 BODY:
In yet another measure of the economy's troubles, a record number of households -- 8.3 million -- received federal aid to help pay their energy bills in 2009, up from a record 6.1 million in 2008. Based on early applications for 2010, more than 10 million families are likely to need help to keep the heat on this winter. Many of them have never needed help before. 
 The surge has caught policy makers unprepared. In the past, rising energy prices usually drove the need for heating assistance. Of late, there have been no sudden price increases. Indeed, average costs are expected to decline modestly this winter. This relatively benign outlook for energy prices led Congress to hold the 2010 appropriation for heating assistance at $5.1 billion -- the same level as in 2009. 
 So what happened? What happened was the recession, which cost jobs, which squeezed incomes. Nearly one in five American workers is currently unemployed or underemployed in a job that offers less pay or fewer hours. And as savings dwindle, many families are simply running out of money, forcing tradeoffs: the rent, the mortgage payment or the utility bill? Food, medicine or heat? 
 Federal heating assistance is supposed to ensure that no one faces such brutal choices. It is aimed at low-income families and pays about one-half of a recipient's bill, on average. It is also supposed to ensure that no one is exposed to the illnesses that inadequate heating can bring, and that no one is tempted to use dangerous heat sources like kerosene lamps, which pose fire hazards. 
 Of the $5.1 billion set aside for heating assistance, nearly $600 million is in a contingency fund that requires presidential approval to spend. President Obama should quickly release those funds. 
 In addition, Congress needs to approve a supplemental appropriation for more heating aid when it returns early next year. Based on current projections, meeting the need this winter would require an additional $2.5 billion. The alternative -- no heat for struggling families -- is unacceptable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY ASSISTANCE (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



783 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Search, but You May Not Find

BYLINE: By ADAM RAFF. 
Adam Raff is a co-founder of Foundem, an Internet technology firm.

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
 AS we become increasingly dependent on the Internet, we need to be increasingly concerned about how it is regulated. The Federal Communications Commission has proposed ''network neutrality'' rules, which would prohibit Internet service providers from discriminating against or charging premiums for certain services or applications on the Web. The commission is correct that ensuring equal access to the infrastructure of the Internet is vital, but it errs in directing its regulations only at service providers like AT&T and Comcast. 
 Today, search engines like Google, Yahoo and Microsoft's new Bing have become the Internet's gatekeepers, and the crucial role they play in directing users to Web sites means they are now as essential a component of its infrastructure as the physical network itself. The F.C.C. needs to look beyond network neutrality and include ''search neutrality'': the principle that search engines should have no editorial policies other than that their results be comprehensive, impartial and based solely on relevance. 
 The need for search neutrality is particularly pressing because so much market power lies in the hands of one company: Google. With 71 percent of the United States search market (and 90 percent in Britain), Google's dominance of both search and search advertising gives it overwhelming control. Google's revenues exceeded $21 billion last year, but this pales next to the hundreds of billions of dollars of other companies' revenues that Google controls indirectly through its search results and sponsored links.
 One way that Google exploits this control is by imposing covert ''penalties'' that can strike legitimate and useful Web sites, removing them entirely from its search results or placing them so far down the rankings that they will in all likelihood never be found. For three years, my company's vertical search and price-comparison site, Foundem, was effectively ''disappeared'' from the Internet in this way. 
 Another way that Google exploits its control is through preferential placement. With the introduction in 2007 of what it calls ''universal search,'' Google began promoting its own services at or near the top of its search results, bypassing the algorithms it uses to rank the services of others. Google now favors its own price-comparison results for product queries, its own map results for geographic queries, its own news results for topical queries, and its own YouTube results for video queries. And Google's stated plans for universal search make it clear that this is only the beginning.
 Because of its domination of the global search market and ability to penalize competitors while placing its own services at the top of its search results, Google has a virtually unassailable competitive advantage. And Google can deploy this advantage well beyond the confines of search to any service it chooses. Wherever it does so, incumbents are toppled, new entrants are suppressed and innovation is imperiled.
 Google's treatment of Foundem stifled our growth and constrained the development of our innovative search technology. The preferential placement of Google Maps helped it unseat MapQuest from its position as America's leading online mapping service virtually overnight. The share price of TomTom, a maker of navigation systems, has fallen by some 40 percent in the weeks since the announcement of Google's free turn-by-turn satellite navigation service. And RightMove, Britain's leading real-estate portal, lost 10 percent of its market value this month on the mere rumor that Google planned a real-estate search service here. 
 Without search neutrality rules to constrain Google's competitive advantage, we may be heading toward a bleakly uniform world of Google Everything -- Google Travel, Google Finance, Google Insurance, Google Real Estate, Google Telecoms and, of course, Google Books. 
 Some will argue that Google is itself so innovative that we needn't worry. But the company isn't as innovative as it is regularly given credit for. Google Maps, Google Earth, Google Groups, Google Docs, Google Analytics, Android and many other Google products are all based on technology that Google has acquired rather than invented. 
 Even AdWords and AdSense, the phenomenally efficient economic engines behind Google's meteoric success, are essentially borrowed inventions: Google acquired AdSense by purchasing Applied Semantics in 2003; and AdWords, though developed by Google, is used under license from its inventors, Overture.
 Google was quick to recognize the threat to openness and innovation posed by the market power of Internet service providers, and has long been a leading proponent of net neutrality. But it now faces a difficult choice. Will it embrace search neutrality as the logical extension to net neutrality that truly protects equal access to the Internet? Or will it try to argue that discriminatory market power is somehow dangerous in the hands of a cable or telecommunications company but harmless in the hands of an overwhelmingly dominant search engine?
 The F.C.C. is now inviting public comment on its proposed network neutrality rules, so there is still time to persuade the commission to expand the scope of the regulations. In particular, it should ensure that the principles of transparency and nondiscrimination apply to search engines as well as to service providers. The alternative is an Internet in which innovation can be squashed at will by an all-powerful search engine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (77%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (65%); SPONSORSHIP (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009



784 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BY DEGREES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Coming Clean About Carbon

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
Cupping their hands near holes drilled for cable routing, workers at the Boeing Company's four-acre data processing site near Seattle noticed this year that air used to keep the computers cool was seeping through floor openings.
 Mindful of the company's drive to slash electricity consumption by 25 percent, they tucked insulation into holes there and at five similar sites. The resulting savings are projected at $55,000, or some 685,000 kilowatt hours of electricity a year.
 Yet Boeing's goal is not just to save money. The hope is to keep pace with other companies that have joined in a vast global experiment in tracking the carbon dioxide emissions generated by industry. 
 Boeing and other enterprises are voluntarily doing what some might fiercely resist being forced to do: submitting detailed reports on how much they emit, largely through fossil fuel consumption, to a central clearinghouse. 
 The information flows to the Carbon Disclosure Project, a small nonprofit organization based in London that sifts through the numbers and generates snapshots by industry sectors in different nations. 
 By giving enterprises a road map for measuring their emissions and pointing out how they compare with their peers, experts say, the voluntary project is persuading companies to change their energy practices well before many governments step in to regulate emissions. 
 Scientists estimate that industry and energy providers produce nearly 45 percent of the heat-trapping emissions that contribute to global warming. While some governments are convinced that reining in such pollution is crucial to protecting the atmosphere, a binding global pact is not on the immediate horizon, as negotiations in Copenhagen showed this month.
 Until broad regulation is at hand, many investors and company executives say, voluntary reporting programs like the Carbon Disclosure Project may be the best way to leverage market forces for change.
 They say the project sends a message that a company that moves to curb emissions now is girded for the future and therefore worthy of investment.
 ''With the regulatory framework changing, how companies handle carbon is a core risk factor,'' said Jack Ehnes, chief executive of Calstrs, the California teachers' pension fund. ''Smart companies will take C.D.P. information and realign their strategies.''
 Mary Armstrong, Boeing's vice president for environment, health and safety, traces her company's energy focus back to 2007, when she first saw the forms that companies fill out for the disclosure project.
 ''The questions take you through and say, 'Do you have environmental performance targets?' We didn't, but now we do,'' she said. The companies' individual responses are posted at the project's Web site.
 In contrast to the United States, European Union countries already regulate carbon dioxide emissions from their most energy-intensive industries through a cap and trade program, and Japan polices energy consumption itself. 
 Paul Dickinson, the founder and chief executive of the Carbon Disclosure Project, is quick to acknowledge that his group is no substitute for muscular government regulation. But he argues that the voluntary project offers a frictionless path toward reining in emissions, even in relatively unregulated markets like China's and India's. Emissions are expected to soar in those fast-growing economies in coming years as new coal-fired plants go online. 
 Yet even as the Carbon Disclosure Project has established itself as the standard for emissions measurement methods, it has stirred some skepticism. Critics say that the emissions figures do not have to be verified through external audits, as financial figures from publicly traded companies must be. 
 And some argue that the project rewards companies that would have cut their carbon dioxide output anyway, and has no influence over polluting companies that refuse to take part.
 Nonetheless, 2,500 of the world's largest companies completed at least part of the project's questionnaire last year, from the energy conglomerate Gazprom in Russia to Huaxin Cement in China. 
 In the United States, where almost only the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index were solicited by the disclosure project, some 330 filled out forms this year. Some companies do not answer all of the questions. But the most detailed reports specify not only how much energy a company consumes, and how, but also ticks off ways in which it might be vulnerable to climate change -- flooded stores, for example. 
 Industry is a broad and varied category, of course, covering everything from cement and chemical makers, which emit an enormous amount of carbon dioxide, to data-driven businesses like financial services, which emit little by comparison. 
 The disclosure project has response rates of at least 60 percent for most industry sectors in the United States. But it has even higher rates for utilities, which are highly regulated, and materials companies, which include cement and chemical makers. It has received responses from energy titans like Chevron and chemical companies like DuPont. 
 To drum up more and better reporting, the project has enlisted major investors like Calstrs, the nation's second-largest pension program, and Bank of America Merrill Lynch to co-sign letters from the project encouraging companies to take part. 
 Mr. Dickinson said the project writes letters on behalf of 475 investor groups representing $55 trillion in funds worldwide.
 Some American companies have argued that reporting is cumbersome and could allow competitors to learn too much about their manufacturing processes. But proponents counter that the monitoring could give some of them a competitive advantage as early adopters. 
 In September, the Environmental Protection Agencyannounced it could require the nation's biggest power plants and industrial operations to report greenhouse gas emissions as early as 2011. The United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers have firmly opposed such regulation, saying that it would be legally and technically burdensome, drive up fuel costs by promoting renewable sources and send job overseas. 
 But nations that have already pressed ahead with regulations are prodding the United States to match their efforts. The European Union has been monitoring and limiting carbon dioxide emissions from its most energy-intensive sectors since 2005 through a cap and trade program.
 Since 2003 Japan has required companies of any size to report energy consumption to the government and what they are doing to reduce use. Mr. Dickinson argues that disclosure could prove a means of currying investor favor in international markets as the global awareness of industry's role in climate change deepens.
 ''I have real confidence that the corporations of the world are going to outperform government in terms of dealing with climate change,'' he said. ''In fact, they are already.'' 
 His vision for carbon transparency dates back to 1997, when he entered a master's program on responsible business practices at the University of Bath School of Management taught by Anita Roddick, the founder of The Body Shop. 
 After graduating, he solicited philanthropists, including Ted Turner, and went about developing reliable ways to measure output. Then he reached out to large investors to co-sign letters demanding that companies fill out the project's forms. Until 2002, the forms spoke only of ''the perception'' of climate change because global warming was still ''too controversial,'' he said.
 Some analysts now laud the program as an innovative way of encouraging investors to factor industry emissions into assessments of corporate performance. 
 Abyd Karmali, global head of carbon markets for Bank of America, likens the disclosure project to the advent of general accounting principles, which enable investors to compare financial performance and move dollars accordingly.
 ''It is very difficult to translate carbon-related risk into standardized disclosure, so it is a fantastic contribution,'' he said. 
 But others have their doubts. ''There is disclosure, and then so what?'' said Hewson Baltzell, the co-founder of Innovest, a financial research firm that gathered figures for the disclosure project the first several years. ''They've dipped their toe in the water on asking companies about performance, but not very far.'' 
 Mr. Dickinson counters that the project has added evaluations that rate companies by concrete steps taken to cut their emissions. It now also asks companies to calculate emissions of their suppliers, in the hope of leveraging the power that a giant like Wal-Mart might have over those that are otherwise unwilling to report. 
 Rob Bernard, chief environmental strategist for Microsoft, which is helping the project make its data more accessible to the public, says the impact of the reports is growing. 
 ''With each year we are able to compare performance on greenhouse gas information with new levels of granularity,'' he said. ''Now we just have to hope that more people read it and care.'' 
 BY DEGREES: This is the 10th in a series of articles about stopgap measures that could limit global warming. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Dickinson, the chief executive of the Carbon Disclosure Project, during a teleconference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B8) DRAWING (pg.B1)
 GRAPHIC: COUNTING CARBON: Relying partly on investor pressure, the Carbon Disclosure Project has persuaded a growing number of companies to report their carbon dioxide emissions. (Source: Carbon Disclosure Project) (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (73%); CLIMATOLOGY (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (94%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



785 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: New and Creative Leniency For Overdue Library Books

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY and EMMA GRAVES FITZSIMMONS

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
In the Illinois towns of Joliet and Palos Park, the economic downturn has pushed the public libraries into the grocery business, of sorts. Patrons with overdue books and hefty outstanding fines were recently given a way to clear their records: Donate canned goods or other groceries through the library to local shelters and food pantries. 
 Dozens of library patrons in both towns jumped at the opportunity. 
 In Colorado, despite a multimillion-dollar deficit, the Denver Public Library has practically done away with fixed-rate fines. Now librarians there are free to negotiate a fee structure that feels fair to them based on individual cases, or to charge nothing at all.
 Since the beginning of the economic downturn, librarians across the country have speculated that fines for overdue items are keeping people from using the library -- particularly large families whose children take out (and forget to return) many books at a time. Some libraries learned that the fines, which are often as low as 25 cents an item per day, quickly multiplied for many people and were becoming an added hardship.
 ''We can't push the cost to consumers because they're also struggling,'' said Richard Sosa, the finance director of the Denver system, which has $9 million worth of books in circulation through 23 libraries and two bookmobiles. ''The library philosophy is: We do not want to restrict access to information. The use of fines or harsh collection tactics -- and we could potentially do that -- could essentially restrict people's access to the library.''
 And another thing: They need their books back.
 As a result, libraries have been instituting amnesty days and weeks with increasing frequency this year, and offering programs such as ''food for fines.'' In Joliet, about 60 miles southwest of here, the program went well beyond groceries, and benefited a local social service agency that serves the needy.
 ''Toiletries, clothing -- people could bring in just about anything,'' said John Spears, the director of the Joliet library. ''It went very well. I think these kinds of things are a win-win for everyone.''
 The Conneaut Public Library in Conneaut, Ohio, has a list of more than 1,000 people who cannot use the system because of fines, and the staff has been contacting the long lost patrons to ask them to come back. 
 The food for fines program there, which started around Thanksgiving and runs through New Year's Day, offers this deal: Take the amount owed, divide it in half, and give that number of items to the Conneaut Food Pantry. For instance, if a family owes $50, it can donate 25 canned goods to the pantry, and the fines will disappear.
 ''Behind my circulation desk, I have boxes and boxes of food that people are stumbling over,'' said Kathy Pape, the library's executive director. ''The response has been overwhelming.''
 Other libraries are accepting any amount of food in exchange for returned materials. And the ones that are offering amnesty require nothing at all.
 ''We service an area that's extremely depressed, in the foothills of East Tennessee in the Smoky Mountains,'' said Aliceann McCabe, the director of the Audrey Pack Memorial Library in Spring City, Tenn., where an amnesty week ended Dec. 18. ''Our computer use has tripled thanks to unemployment claims and things. This is our Christmas present to the people who use our library. We don't want to ding them with fines.''
 Ms. McCabe recounted the story of one woman who had $196 in outstanding fines forgiven. The library, for its part, got her 10 books back in circulation. For a country library that only has 27,000 books in its collection, ''that's a lot,'' Ms. McCabe said.
 The Monterey County Free Library system in Monterey, Calif., has reclaimed more than 1,000 books since offering end-of-the-year amnesty to patrons in November and December. 
 ''We thought, People are suffering, having a hard time, so let's give them a break and get our books back,'' said Jayanti Addleman, the county librarian. 
 But Ms. Addleman and others said they often faced a common-sense question from users and management: Why not raise fines to make money and serve more people?
 The librarians say the new leniency makes sense. ''What's going to keep my library doors open is the bigger picture,'' Ms. Pape said. ''It isn't going to be a hundred-odd dollars here and there.''
 Mr. Sosa, in Denver, added: ''A certain level of fines and fee structure is important to have people realize that these are important public materials, and that's how libraries work in a democracy. But at the same time, we're trying to figure out, when does a fee prohibit someone who's on the brink economically from using our service? We're cognizant of what we're doing.''
 In Pelham, N.H., the public library director, Robert Rice, offered a food-for-fines program during November. 
 ''We will probably continue that policy once the new year starts,'' Mr. Rice said. ''The loss in terms of money was maybe $20 a day. We well made up for it with the amount of food that came in.''
 He continued: ''We got our materials back and did something positive for the community. Use is up greatly, and budgets are being cut. But we're not going anywhere. We're keeping the doors open.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Boxes of food items used to pay fines for overdue books were moved from the library in Conneaut, Ohio, to a food pantry van. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 At the Denver Public Library, librarians can negotiate a fee structure that feels fair to them based on individual cases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANA ROMANOFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (91%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LIBRARIANS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMILY (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



786 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Getting Off Welfare, and Getting Her Son to College

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Last July, Antonio Reyes, 17, came home to the Washington Houses in East Harlem to find a letter waiting from Mountain State University in West Virginia. Inside was news to make any parent proud: He had been accepted at college; the first member of his family to make it that far.
 His mother, Kisha C. Reyes, 38, was indeed proud. But she was also dismayed. After losing her $60,000-a-year job at Lehman Brothers in July 2008, she had been unable find suitable work. Instead, she was on public assistance. 
 And the $160 she received every other week was not going to pay for the laptop computer that Antonio would need at college. Nor would it pay for his bus ticket to West Virginia.
 Her financial straits seemed to foreclose her son's college career before it could begin. And it brought gloom into her home, gloom that enveloped her son and her 10-year-old daughter, Amber.
 Suddenly, a mother who had held well-paying jobs almost all of Antonio's life was going nowhere. ''My son lost some of his hope when I wasn't working,'' she said.
 One small sign of hope arrived in September with a grant of $381 for her son's computer from the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 Later that month, Ms. Reyes found a job with Citigroup in Purchase, N.Y.
 A tough spell seemed finally to be lifting; a spell that began -- in retrospect -- when Ms. Reyes left Deutsche Bank in Manhattan, where she had been employed 11 years, most recently as an executive assistant. ''I organized the calendar for six people,'' she recalled, ''answered phones, handled domestic and international travel, expenses, invoices, baby showers, organizational charts.''
 ''I thought it was a great company, but we had both changed,'' Ms. Reyes said, explaining why she started looking for work elsewhere. In 2007, Lehman Brothers said it would pay her $5,000 a year more than she was getting at Deutsche Bank.
 Ms. Reyes was hired that July. A month later, Lehman -- hit by the collapsing market in subprime mortgage-backed securities -- announced it would lay off 1,200 employees. Ms. Reyes was spared at first. But the layoffs kept coming. By July 2008, her yearlong stint at Lehman was over. She, too, was laid off.
 Two months later, Lehman itself collapsed. And the rest of the financial industry was hemorrhaging jobs.
 Through a friend, Ms. Reyes found a prospect at Time Warner Cable in Queens, where she would have made $12 an hour, a considerable drop from Lehman, where she had been making almost $30 an hour.
 During the training period, Ms. Reyes calculated that one-third of her income was going to be eaten up by the cost of getting to the job by car, something she had to do in order to drop Amber off at school on the Upper West Side and make it to work by 9 a.m. That was the end of Time Warner.
 When she tried to get back on the unemployment benefit rolls, she was told that she was no longer eligible, since she had quit the Time Warner job voluntarily. 
 Ms. Reyes finally saw no choice but to go on public assistance.
 ''I'd vowed I'd never go on it,'' she said. ''I was ashamed. I worked for 12 years. I'm not one who stayed home and collected off the system. I took care of my kids.''
 She received cash benefits for four months before finding the job at Citigroup.
 Ms. Reyes says that although Antonio missed the fall semester, he will be able to attend college next month. And that will profoundly influence Amber, who looks up to her older brother.
 ''If he makes it,'' Ms. Reyes said, ''he can make it easier for her.''
 At Last, a Citizen
 A year ago, Steriana Balan, a 77-year-old political refugee from Romania, was fighting to gain United States citizenship. But her efforts had long been mired in a bureaucratic limbo that Catholic Charities was trying to help her untangle.
 This reporter interviewed her husband, Moise G. Balan, for the article ''Banished by Communists, and Seeking a Fuller Life.'' (Mrs. Balan speaks little English. This reporter speaks no Romanian.) 
 He had been naturalized in 1986, five years after the couple were exiled by the despotic government of Nicolae Ceausescu. They live in a Housing Authority development for the elderly on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
 Mr. Balan now reports that his wife was granted citizenship on March 4. A month later, she had her United States passport. ''After 16 years, she got what she deserved,'' Mr. Balan said, ''from starting like the American Constitution said.''
 HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steriana Balan, a refugee from Romania, and her husband, Moise G. Balan, in their East Side apartment. After years in bureaucratic limbo, and aid from the Neediest Cases Fund through Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, she obtained American citizenship. Details below. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded$3,345,046 Recorded Thursday172,104 Total$3,517,150 Last year to date$3,842,460 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (69%); TRAVEL TICKETS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%); CHARITIES (65%); RELIGION (65%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (73%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); TWC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



787 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Cash For Kidneys?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''A 'Gift of Life' With Money Attached'' (Essay, Dec. 22) is right on point. But how about the ideas for getting more people on the donor list with lifetime incentives like a free driver's license or vouchers for the cost of cremation upon one's death? 
 B. F. Skinner taught pigeons to play Ping-Pong with pellets; surely we can modify human behavior to save lives as donors. If it were my child waiting for an organ, I would be happy to pay into the ''fund for free driver's licenses.''
 Tom Byrne Coral Gables, Fla.
 To the Editor:
 The legalized selling of kidneys and other organs and body parts would take advantage of the poor, the unemployed, the less educated and/or those in economic distress. 
 Instead of remunerating donors, why not have a safety net consisting of full employment with a living wage and universal health care? Then we would know the giving of a kidney or any body part was done without coercion or desperation but truly for altruism. 
 Jerry Frankel, M.D. Houston

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOSEPH FIELDER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGAN TRAFFICKING (90%); LIVING WAGE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (72%); CREMATION (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



788 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Getting the Details Right on Health

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Next Step on Health Reform'' (editorial, Dec. 27):
 The difficult debate over health care reform is about to reach a climax. The fragile alliance that is required to move the process forward cannot afford to lose a single member. Cost is the limiting factor for almost every element in the reform package. The final bill could be strengthened if the issue of cost is dealt with first.
 No one doubts that we waste huge sums of money through health care fraud. Conservative estimates of Medicare losses are $60 billion a year. Thomson Reuters reported recently that ''health care fraud costs $125 billion to $175 billion each year'' when all payers are included. The entire cost of health care reform could be covered by plugging these holes. 
 Lip service to this problem will not ease the passage of meaningful health care reform. Tackling the problem of fraud should be on Page 1 of the conference committee's health care bill.
 Kenneth Croen White Plains, Dec. 27, 2009
 The writer is a doctor.
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial hits much the right note, particularly with regard to when the exchanges should start. The House got it right -- 2013 is better timing. We are in a deep recession. Millions have lost jobs, and that loss is compounded by loss of health coverage.
 To help workers now, the bill should copy something else in the House bill -- the extension of the health care portion of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, or Cobra. Without the extension, workers lose Cobra after 18 months.
 The House bill (Section 113) permits anyone on Cobra to continue his or her group-rate insurance plan until the exchanges start. The individual would pay the premiums. There is no additional cost or government subsidy in the bill.
 This is a sound addition to reform. The extension allows the unemployed, who include many over 50 who cannot get new insurance because they are older or have modest pre-existing conditions like high cholesterol, to continue their group coverage.
 Peter M. Warren San Pedro, Calif., Dec. 27, 2009
 To the Editor:
 What I don't find anticipated or predicted is what will happen to any health care legislation actually passed if and when the balance of power shifts toward the right, which may occur as soon as the next election.
 When the majority party changes, its first actions seem to involve undoing the most radical changes enacted by the opposition. What happens if the newly elected Congress in November pushes through a vote to nullify the whole health reform bill, if it is passed?
 Is there a precedent? Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid quickly come to mind as having stood the test of time.
 Marta Steele Washington, Dec. 27, 2009
 To the Editor:
 In your editorial you seem not to understand the American public's concerns about government-sponsored abortions. You classified the two Congressional health care plans as being ''evil'' because of their abortion financing plans.
 Americans would be outraged if Congress passed legislation that required the public to pay for abortions. The public is deeply divided over abortions, but the federal government has not asked people to use their tax dollars to pay for abortions since the passage of the Hyde Amendment. 
 You display an arrogant attitude toward those who oppose killing babies, who lack any voice in this debate.
 Brent Muirhead Alpharetta, Ga., Dec. 27, 2009
 To the Editor:
 We need to correct the serious structural and systemic deficiencies in the way health care is now delivered in the United States.
 Cutting Medicare payments, except for fraud, will only encourage doctors to stop accepting Medicare and private insurance from patients. It will lead to a two-tier health care system and further accelerate the drop in new doctors, especially primary-care physicians. These trends have already started.
 Too many people choose to engage in unhealthy lifestyles. We can no longer afford to subsidize the obese, smokers, drug users and motorists who text and use their cellphones while driving.
 If these two problems are addressed, we can begin to resolve many of the current disputes over health care.
 Charles G. Loeb Jr. Yonkers, Dec. 28, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''The Next Step on Health Reform'' presents an excellent summary of the legislation passed by both houses of Congress. Unfortunately, the issue of medical liability was not mentioned.
 High insurance premiums and the necessity to practice defensive medicine with supernumerary tests add a financial burden on physicians and other health care providers.
 The issue of tort reform should be addressed.
 Gilbert J. Wise New York, Dec. 27, 2009
 The writer is a urologist.
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial was very good for the most part. But I cannot understand your enthusiasm for raising Medicaid's low payments to that of Medicare. That does not go far enough.
 All available evidence clearly shows that doctors are increasingly refusing to accept Medicare patients because of its low reimbursements for services rendered. The entire schedule of Medicare and Medicaid payments to doctors must be reviewed.
 David Dreiblatt New York, Dec. 27, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID SUTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (93%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE FRAUD (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MEDICARE (89%); INSURANCE FRAUD (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); WRITERS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); MEDICAID (58%); CHOLESTEROL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



789 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Carpe Diem? Maybe Tomorrow

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
For once, social scientists have discovered a flaw in the human psyche that will not be tedious to correct. You may not even need a support group. You could try on your own by starting with this simple New Year's resolution: Have fun ... now!
 Then you just need the strength to cash in your gift certificates, drink that special bottle of wine, redeem your frequent flier miles and take that vacation you always promised yourself. If your resolve weakens, do not succumb to guilt or shame. Acknowledge what you are: a recovering procrastinator of pleasure. 
 It sounds odd, but this is actually a widespread form of procrastination -- just ask the airlines and other marketers who save billions of dollars annually from gift certificates that expire unredeemed. Or the poets who have kept turning out exhortations to seize the day and gather rosebuds. 
 But it has taken awhile for psychologists and behavioral economists to analyze this condition. Now they have begun to explore the strange impulse to put off until tomorrow what could be enjoyed today.
 Why, for instance, is it so hard to find time to visit landmarks in your own backyard? People who have moved to Chicago, Dallas and London get to fewer local landmarks during their entire first year than the typical tourist visits during a two-week stay, according to a study conducted by Suzanne B. Shu and Ayelet Gneezy, who are professors of marketing at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the University of California, San Diego, respectively. The Chicagoans in the study had visited more landmarks in other cities than in their own, and even their relatively small amount of local sightseeing was done mainly in the course of entertaining out-of-towners. Otherwise, the only time Chicagoans rushed to see the local landmarks was just before they were about to move to another city, when that deadline inspired sudden passions for taking architectural tours and going to the zoo. 
 When there is no immediate deadline, we're liable to put off going to the zoo this weekend because we assume that we will be less busy next weekend -- or the weekend after that, or next summer. This is the same sort of thinking that causes us to put the gift certificate in the drawer because we expect to have more time for shopping in the future. 
 We're trying to do a cost-benefit analysis of the time lost versus the pleasure or money to be gained, but we're not accurate in our estimates of ''resource slack,'' as it is termed by Gal Zauberman and John G. Lynch. These behavioral economists found that when people were asked to anticipate how much extra money and time they would have in the future, they realistically assumed that money would be tight, but they expected free time to magically materialize.
 Hence you're more likely to agree to a commitment next year, like giving a speech, that you would turn down if asked to find time for it in the next month. This produces what researchers call the ''Yes ... Damn!'' effect: when the speech comes due next year, you bitterly discover you're still as busy as ever.
 Dr. Shu and Dr. Gneezy demonstrated another effect of this fallacy by giving people gift certificates good for movie tickets and French pastries. Some got certificates that expired within two to three weeks; others got certificates good for six to eight weeks. 
 The people who received the long-term certificates were more confident than the others that they would redeem the gifts -- a logical enough assumption, given all the extra time they had. But they just kept putting it off, and ultimately they were more likely to let the gift go unredeemed than the people who had received the short-term certificates. 
 Once you start procrastinating pleasure, it can become a self-perpetuating process if you fixate on some imagined nirvana. The longer you wait to open that prize bottle of wine, the more special the occasion has to be. 
 If you're determined to get the absolute maximum out of those frequent flier miles, you can end up wasting them, as Dr. Shu found in an experiment offering people a chance to use discount coupons in the course of buying a series of plane tickets. Once the subjects were told that they might have a chance at a free flight worth $1,000, they scorned lesser awards and hung on to their coupons so long that in the end they had to use them for much cheaper flights. 
 ''People can become overly focused on an ideal,'' Dr. Shu said. ''Even if they know it's unlikely, they get so focused on the perfect scenario that they block everything else. Or they anticipate that they'll kick themselves later if they take second-best option and then see the best one is still available. But they don't realize that regret can go the other way. They'll end up with something worse and regret not taking the second-best one.''
 But even if you know about all this research, how can you apply these lessons? How can you avoid the temptation to postpone pleasure? (You can offer suggestions at nytimes.com/tierneylab.) One immediate strategy, Dr. Shu said, is to cash in quickly any gift certificate you received this holiday season. ''The biggest danger is that it will be forgotten and expire,'' she said. ''One of the best presents you can give back to the giver is to use it quickly and then tell them how much you enjoyed it. The regret from not using it will be bigger than the regret from using it on a nonperfect occasion, for you and especially for the person who gave it.''
 Another tactic is to give yourself deadlines. Cash in the miles by summer, even if you can't get a round-the-world trip out of them. Instead of waiting for a special occasion to indulge yourself, create one. Dr. Shu approvingly cites the pioneering therapeutic work of Dorothy J. Gaiter and John Brecher, who for the past decade used their Wall Street Journal column on wine to proclaim the last Saturday of February to be ''Open That Bottle Night.''
 But you don't even have to wait until Feb. 27. Remember the advice offered in the movie ''Sideways'' to Miles, who has been holding on to a '61 Cheval Blanc so long that it is in danger of going bad. When Miles says he is waiting for a special occasion, his friend Maya puts matters in perspective:
 ''The day you open a '61 Cheval Blanc, that's the special occasion.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIKTOR KOEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



790 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; LEAVING THE TRAILER; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: In Hurricane Katrina's Aftermath, Still a Struggle to Help the Helpless

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
When Renaissance Village, the vast trailer park that housed Hurricane Katrina evacuees outside Baton Rouge, was closing down in May 2008, Theresa August was one of the last to leave. Babbling, singing and wearing a baby's onesie on her head, she had to be coaxed into packing up the clothes and trash that crammed the trailer she called home.
 Now, Ms. August, 40, lives in a small apartment in New Orleans that she decorated with flowers and Christmas lights. A team of social workers ensures that she takes her anti-psychosis medication and gets treatment for H.I.V. infection. Still shy and fettered by a speech impediment, she can carry on conversations far more coherently than at any other time since the storm.
 ''I didn't think I was going to make it nowhere,'' she said. ''But I have.'' 
 If any group of people could be said to have been the most shattered by Hurricane Katrina, it was those who were left in Renaissance Village and other temporary housing when the Federal Emergency Management Agency began to phase out housing aid almost three years after the storm. 
 They were among the region's poorest people before the storm hit in August 2005, their lives once supported in New Orleans by a dense web of family ties and familiarity. Many were elderly, sick, addicted, mentally ill or otherwise disabled, unskilled or uneducated, and traumatized. Their children were behind in school or acting out. The storm was initially hailed as an opportunity to give them a better life, but as time progressed, thousands of families disappeared into the yawning gaps in government aid. 
 Now, more than four years after the flood, their lives have achieved only a fragile equilibrium, with many of them still turning to private agencies for help as their government aid expires. Some have transferred to permanent government programs that pay for housing, but continue to face obstacles to self-sufficiency like clinical depression or declining health. 
 Those who have succeeded have provided a valuable lesson to social workers in the region, one that they say the federal government has been slow to learn: it is not enough simply to give money, or rent vouchers, to people unable to strategize for themselves. Those who have achieved the most stability, like Ms. August, have had the most sustained kind of attention: caseworkers who make house calls, counseling, transportation, gentle encouragement and tough love. That kind of care has been the exception, not the rule. 
 Federal agencies spent more than $200 million on case management for victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, but often did little follow-up work. 
 ''It's easier just to throw money at people and then after a year cut them off,'' said Toni Bankston, a psychologist at Neighbor's Keeper, a nonprofit group in Baton Rouge that works with the Capital Area Alliance for the Homeless to provide comprehensive assistance to victims of Hurricane Katrina.
 Neighbor's Keeper itself was making little progress with many of its clients, said Sister Judith Brun, a nun who runs the organization, until it added mental health care to its services. 
 ''If nothing else,'' Sister Judith said, ''we have a very sharp insight into what has to happen to help the helpless who've been uprooted. You've got to be a mentor and almost a parent at times.''
 Her agency creates a highly personal system of accountability for each client: one unemployable woman gets an allowance, but must volunteer at a soup kitchen; a client who is giving up drugs or alcohol might, despite Sister Judith's reluctance, be provided with cigarettes. In cases where the smallest obstacle could spell failure, Neighbor's Keeper has been on hand with bus passes, phone cards or school uniforms. In contrast, FEMA paid for families to stay in hotels for months with little contact.
 Because it has not encouraged deeper involvement by caseworkers, Sister Judith said, ''the federal government has gotten a very poor return on their investment.''
 In many cases, the hurricane simply piled new difficulties on top of problems that existed before, making recovery more challenging to assess. Laura Hilton, a barely literate mother of three, is now securely housed in a New Orleans duplex, under the same supportive housing program as Ms. August. But Ms. Hilton's 12-year-old son, Roy, remains far below his grade level in reading. 
 School officials take Roy to the doctor, fill his prescription to combat attention deficit disorder, and give him his medication, but they say their efforts are less effective because he does not take the drugs on weekends or holidays. Still, Roy attends school regularly and has built relationships there. He sometimes asks Charlita Hayes, the special-education coordinator, to let him see a photocopy of the driver's license of his father, who was murdered after the storm, which she keeps safe for him in her desk. 
 Alton Love, a single father in Baton Rouge, was hospitalized in 2008 with advanced diabetes that he did not know he had. When he found a new job driving a van this summer and went for a physical, he said, the doctor revoked his commercial driver's license because his disease was so severe. 
 Doris Fountain, 68, is finally back in her repaired home in New Orleans and regularly visits a local center for older Americans. But when asked about the storm and the cancer that killed her husband less than two years later, she bursts into tears. 
 Jermaine Howard, 16, missed three years of school. But after intervention from Neighbor's Keeper, he is living with an older cousin in Baton Rouge, performing with his church's dance troupe and has caught up to grade level. Now it is his younger brother who is truant. Neighbor's Keeper is working to place him in an alternative school. 
 What is clear, from these stories and others, is that the storm is still raging. Of the 30,000 families receiving temporary rental assistance in February, 12,500 qualified for permanent federal housing vouchers, while the rest were cut off because they did not need further help or did not qualify.
 Dozens of those families have called Neighbor's Keeper in Baton Rouge or UNITY of Greater New Orleans, a homeless-services provider, in desperation. For those clients, the months spent on the rent program, Sister Judith said, had been a wasted opportunity for federal caseworkers to help them move toward greater self-sufficiency.
 Matthew Bailey, 44, fell behind on his $420 monthly rent shortly after his disaster-housing subsidy ended in September. He has a head injury, and his garbage-strewn apartment is a cube of unbearable stench. He makes a tiny income from odd jobs like caring for pets. Neighbor's Keeper will help him apply for disability payments, a process that can take more than a year. 
 Sister Judith questioned why his federal caseworker, whom Mr. Bailey said he had not seen since shortly after moving into the apartment, had not begun the application process for him. 
 ''Matthew could have been a settled, lawn-mowing, dog-walking citizen,'' she said.
 LEAVING THE TRAILER: This is the last article in a series following the remaining residents of government trailers around Louisiana, displaced since Hurricane Katrina, as they make a difficult return to life on their own. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Laura Hilton and her son Roy receive help from caseworkers in New Orleans, but some problems that existed before Hurricane Katrina displaced them persist.
 Sister Judith Brun, photo at left, runs the Neighbor's Keeper social services program, which has helped Jermaine Howard, 16, right, get back on track in school. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (92%); HURRICANES (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); TRAILER PARKS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); FAMILY (72%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (71%); DEPRESSION (70%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); CHRISTMAS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



791 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Overcomes a Slip To Extend Its Winning Streak

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The headline on the markets is beginning to sound repetitious: Wall Street on Monday finished at its high for the year while extending its winning streak to six days.
 But a bit of drama occurred on Monday, even if it was in part because of swings caused by light trading. Shares, which traded higher for much of the morning, lost their momentum in the afternoon and were in negative territory less than a half-hour before the close.
 In the end, shares turned around, driven by better holiday sales, rising commodities prices and signs of growth in Asia. 
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 26.98 points, or 0.26 percent, at 10,547.08; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.12 percent, or 1.30 points, to 1,127.78, and the technology-dominated Nasdaq rose 5.39 points, or 0.24 percent, to 2,291.08. 
 A report showing that holiday sales in the United States were up 3.6 percent -- compared with a 2.3 percent drop a year ago -- sent the markets in the right direction. Still, the results were not surprising enough to sway the market in what is traditionally a sleepy week. Excluding an extra day of shopping this year, the gain was about 1 percent compared with last year, in line with expectations.
 ''We're not seeing the end-of-the-world situation that was with us last year,'' said Bill Schultz, chief investment officer for McQueen, Ball & Associates. ''The holiday sales numbers give investors reason to think that maybe things are not getting worse. The question now is, 'Are things actually getting better?' ''
 Financial shares, particularly regional banks, were among the losers, though giants like Citigroup and Bank of America bucked that trend, closing up 1.2 percent and 0.26 percent, respectively.
 Trying to take some of the $1 trillion in excess cash out of the financial system, the Federal Reserve proposed a program to sell term deposits to banks. The proposal ''has no implications for monetary policy decisions in the near term,'' the central bank said in a statement.
 Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, is preparing tools and strategies to shrink or neutralize the effects of inflation from the largest monetary expansion in history. 
 Airline stocks in the United States were lower on Monday, as the federal government tried to explain why security officers had not caught a Nigerian man who the authorities said was planning to blow up a Detroit-bound airliner on Christmas Day. Shares of Delta Air Lines, which operated the flight, fell 4 percent; AMR, the parent of American Airlines, dropped 4.8 percent; and UAL, the parent of United, 3.4 percent.
 The price of oil climbed 72 cents, to settle at $78.77 a barrel, also in light trading, helping drive up shares of energy companies, including Exxon Mobil. 
 The dollar weakened against other currencies, trading at $1.438 against the euro. That in turn helped to push gold prices higher.
 In Europe, the CAC 40 in France closed up 0.88 percent, or 34.42 points, to 3,947.15, inching closer to the 4,000-point threshold it last crossed in October 2008. The DAX in Germany climbed 0.76 percent, or 45.48 points, to 6,002.92. The London exchange was closed for Boxing Day.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 11/32, to 96 6/32. The yield rose to 3.84 percent, from 3.80 percent on Thursday.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills and two-year notes:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); AIRLINES (86%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TRENDS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CHRISTMAS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MONETARY POLICY (61%); CHRISTMAS 2009 AIRLINE BOMBING ATTEMPT (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%); DAL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); HOWARD SCHULTZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



792 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; MATERIAL WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Down on the Farm, an Endless Cycle of Waste

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

DATELINE: GUSTINE, Tex. 

 BODY:
Day and night, a huge contraption prowls the grounds at Frank Volleman's dairy in Central Texas. It has a 3,000-gallon tank, a heavy-duty vacuum pump and hoses and, underneath, adjustable blades that scrape the surface as it passes along.
 In function it is something like a Zamboni, but one that has crossed over to the dark side. This is no hockey rink, and it's not loose ice being scraped up. It's cow manure.
 Lots of cow manure. A typical lactating Holstein produces about 150 pounds of waste -- by weight, about two-thirds wet feces, one-third urine -- each day. Mr. Volleman has 3,000 lactating Holsteins and another 1,000 that are temporarily ''dry.'' Do the math: his Wildcat Dairy produces about 200 million pounds of manure every year. 
 Proper handling of this material is one of the most important tasks faced by a dairy operator, or by a cattle feedlot owner, hog producer or other farmer with large numbers of livestock. Manure has to be handled in an environmentally acceptable way and at an acceptable cost. In most cases, that means using it, fresh or composted, as fertilizer. ''It's a great resource, if used properly,'' said Saqib Mukhtar, an associate professor of biological and agricultural engineering at Texas A & M University and an expert on what is politely called manure management.
 But as the increasing incidence of environmental and health problems linked to agriculture makes clear, when manure is mismanaged the nutrients in it can foul streams, lakes and aquifers; the pathogens in it can contaminate food products; and the gases it produces, including ammonia, methane and bad-smelling volatile compounds, can upset neighbors and pollute the atmosphere.
 Even with best practices, manure can cause environmental headaches. So researchers are working on ways to improve its handling, to modify the nutrients in it and to develop alternative uses.
 Mr. Volleman, who came to Texas from his native Luxembourg 16 years ago, takes pride in his operation, which produces about 25,000 gallons of milk a day. ''It's all about keeping it clean, keeping it comfortable and producing high quality milk,'' he said, adding that what is good for his cows is good for him. ''They're writing my paycheck.''
 Dairies differ from feedlots, poultry operations and hog farms in how they handle manure. At a feedlot, for example, manure is often collected only once every six months, after the thousands of fattened cattle have been shipped out. Dairy operators seem like neatniks by comparison, but even among dairies, manure management varies according to location, climate, regulations and other factors.
 At a large operation like Mr. Volleman's, it is the inexorability of excrement, as much as the sheer volume, that defines the waste-handling process. A cow's digestive system, with its series of forestomachs, is built to handle lots of roughage. And you cannot turn it off. 
 So among the 40 employees at Wildcat Dairy are some whose main task is to handle the manure, 24 hours a day. They collect it from the huge open-sided barns, which house up to 1,200 cows each. The animals bed down in sand, but there is a concrete alley running the length of each barn for food and others for excrement.
 While the cows are at the rotary parlor -- a stainless-steel merry-go-round of milking stalls that the Holsteins ride every eight hours around the clock -- a worker on a tractor tows the tank-pump contraption up those manure alleys. The worker hops off the tractor as needed to rake solids in the bedding area into the alleys for collection.
 When the tank is about half full, the worker drives it to a nearby patch of dirt, opens a valve and spreads -- sprays, really -- the manure out to dry. Twice a week, the solids are scraped into windrows and then spread on fields as fertilizer. 
 Even dried, manure contains a lot of water, so it is not economical to truck it very far -- beyond about 10 miles, it is cheaper for a farmer to buy inorganic fertilizer. Some dairy producers compost their manure, making it more valuable as fertilizer, but composting costs time and money. 
 Mr. Volleman's manure is spread only on his fields and those of nearby farmers. ''We bring the manure to their fields, they spread it out to grow crops, we bring the crops back to feed the cows,'' he said. ''So it's kind of a circle -- a closed circle.''
 The liquids in the manure are part of a closed circle as well. Everything at the dairy is sited with gravity in mind, so that all liquids -- the runoff from the drying area, wet manure left behind in the alleys, wastewater from the milking parlor and rainwater -- drain into the first of three interconnected lagoons that are lined with compacted clay.
 The first lagoon is bubbly and dark, with anaerobic bacteria digesting the organic matter to reduce odor. By the third lagoon, the water is clear and dilute enough to be pumped to irrigation equipment on Mr. Volleman's fields.
 But the margin for error in handling both the solids and liquids is thin. 
 Farmers must plan where and when they spread dried manure, both to avoid odor complaints from downwind neighbors and to avoid overapplying nutrients that may run off in a rainstorm. ''It's like any other business,'' Dr. Mukhtar said. ''If you're not keeping track of where your nutrients are going, you may be reapplying those nutrients on the same piece of land. That's more than the plants can take and the soil can hold.''
 One problem, said Robert T. Burns, a professor in the department of agricultural and biosystems engineering at Iowa State University, is that manure typically has more phosphorous than needed. ''Manure is an unbalanced fertilizer from the plant's view,'' Dr. Burns said.
 Diet modification can help, to some extent. Phosphorous is added to dairy feed as a supplement, and research has shown that it tends to be added in excess, said William P. Weiss, a professor in the animal sciences department at Ohio State University. ''You can get good milk and good health at much lower levels,'' Dr. Weiss said. ''And every gram less they feed is a gram less excreted.''
 Nitrogen, on the other hand, comes from protein, and a lactating cow needs to consume a lot of protein. ''Decrease it a bit, and then milk production falls off,'' Dr. Weiss said.
 With nitrogen, the problem is usually not that there is too much, but that much of it is eventually lost from the manure in the form of gaseous ammonia. The bacteria in feces contain an enzyme, urease, that breaks down urea in urine into carbon dioxide and ammonia. As with phosphorous, diet can affect the amount of nitrogen retained in the manure. As corn-based ethanol production has increased in the United States, many dairies and feedlots now give their animals a large amount of so-called distillers' grains, the waste corn after fermentation, which are plentiful and cheap. A recent study of feedlots in the Texas Panhandle, by scientists with the United States Department of Agriculture, showed that feeding a diet high in distillers' grains produced significantly higher ammonia emissions from the manure.
 Emissions problems can also be reduced by changing how the manure is applied. Tilling the soil immediately after application of dried manure can help reduce odors, Dr. Mukhtar said. And if manure is directly injected into the soil in slurry form, Dr. Burns said, the ammonia can better bind with the soil. Currently in Iowa, a major hog-producing state, about 80 percent of hog manure is injected. 
 When it comes to the liquid end of things, there are delicate balances to be maintained aswell.
 Regulations vary by state, but in Texas, manure lagoons have to be big enough to handle a severe rainstorm of the type that occurs, on average, only once every quarter-century. The danger is that an overflow from a lagoon, with its high concentration of organic matter and nutrients, could eventually reach a creek or some other body of water and kill fish.
 Mr. Volleman points out that his lagoons, which have a total capacity of 120 acre-feet, or about 40 million gallons, are 20 percent larger than required. ''We've never overflowed,'' he said. And the dairy has berms around its 80 acres to minimize the risk if an overflow occurred. 
 But not every dairy operator is scrupulous. ''There are bad actors in every walk of life,'' Dr. Mukhtar said. ''Progressive dairy producers will be the first ones to say, 'Let's nail their tails to the wall.' ''
 Problems can arise if a dairy adds cows without increasing lagoon capacity, or if a farmer is not careful about controlling the inorganic solids that enter them. Mr. Volleman, for example, used to flush his barns with water instead of vacuuming them. But he found that there was too much sand and other solids entering the lagoons.
 Controlling solids is crucial, said Dr. Mukhtar, who has evaluated other methods for doing so, including a ''weeping wall'' system, manure storage areas with porous walls that filter the solids from the liquids. 
 Even when solids are controlled, Dr. Mukhtar said, sludge builds up in a lagoon and eventually has to be removed. Neglecting to do so results in less water, and less bacteria, in the mix. ''All of a sudden this is not a properly functioning lagoon,'' he said. ''That's where we have odor issues.'' 
 Another option is to digest the manure in a tank (or, alternatively, put a cover over a lagoon) to produce gas that can be burned for heat or electricity. Another approach, gasification, heats the manure to collect combustible gases.
 Those options, however, are expensive. Even in a good economy, a dairy producer may be reluctant to add costs. And the industry is currently suffering -- milk prices are low, producers are losing money and some are going out of business. ''Given these times,'' Dr. Mukhtar said, ''there is really not a whole lot of incentive to do all that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MILKING IT: A worker at Frank Volleman's dairy in Central Texas, below, operates machinery to remove excrement from feeding barns. Some manure is sucked up, dried and used as fertilizer, above. (pg.D1)
 REUSE: Irrigating a field with wastewater processed from manure, vacuumed up by a Zamboni-like machine, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL WASTES (92%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (89%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); MILK (78%); METHANE (75%); FERTILIZERS (75%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); HOG & PIG FARMING (72%); ICE HOCKEY (71%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); ENGINEERING (70%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (69%); POULTRY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); BEST PRACTICES (64%); AIR POLLUTION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



793 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: On a Faster Track

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
Amtrak has been working hard to lure more business travelers to its trains, with advertisements highlighting its advantages over air travel -- roomier seats, power outlets on its Acela trains and fewer annoyances. 
 And its efforts have borne some fruit: the number of riders on its Northeast corridor trains has been rising. 
 But faster trains are critical to its future. So while Amtrak got some desperately needed financing from the federal government this year, its forecasts suggest that speedier rail travel in the United States remains a daunting challenge. 
 For the Northeast corridor alone, Amtrak estimates that it will need almost $700 million annually for the next 15 years to maintain the system and to tackle a backlog of maintenance projects and upgrades. Reducing travel times between New York and Washington to two-and-a-half hours and times between New York and Boston to three hours -- goals that were established in the 1970s -- will require straighter track, improvements to bridges and tunnels, increased capacity through Manhattan and newer trains, among other investments.
 Almost all of Amtrak's lines fail to make money, with a total loss of $1.1 billion in 2008. Even technology enhancements seem to move at a slow pace: developing a new electronic reservation system is expected to take until 2015.
 Still, Amtrak officials are more optimistic now than they have been in a long time. ''We're probably in the best position to move forward to get the things done we want to get done and that the government wants us to get done,'' said David Lim, Amtrak's chief marketing officer. ''We have an administration that is supportive of rail.''
 One of the biggest changes for Amtrak is that after years of bare-bones annual financing that limited the railroad's ability to make significant upgrades, Congress approved a five-year authorization in 2008 that allocates the system nearly $2 billion a year. 
 Although the money still needs to be appropriated every year, Mr. Lim said, ''the fact that there's a five-year plan makes a tremendous difference. Asking the government for your annual subsidy obviously makes it difficult to plan and execute capital projects.''
 In addition, the economic stimulus package approved by Congress early this year provided $1.3 billion to supplement Amtrak's capital budget and $8 billion in grants for intercity service and high-speed passenger rail. While those amounts will not go far in developing the bullet trains that operate in Europe and Asia and will probably be distributed among projects throughout the country, Amtrak officials say they view the investment as an important policy shift. 
 There are also signs that passengers are increasingly embracing trains. The number of Amtrak riders has increased steadily since 2001, surpassing 28 million in 2008, though a dip is expected this year because of the recession. 
 Amtrak estimates it carried 63 percent of travelers flying or taking the train between New York and Washington in 2008 -- an increase from 37 percent before the Acela service began in 2000. Amtrak's market share between New York and Boston was 49 percent last year, compared with 20 percent before Acela.
 Amtrak hopes to push those numbers even higher, Mr. Lim said. The railroad plans to introduce free Wi-Fi service on all Acela trains in the second quarter of 2010, then add Northeast regional trains later in the year.
 The ability to work on the train is one of the reasons Brian Silengo says he rides Amtrak for his weekly trips to New York from Washington. He uses a cellular wireless card to get Internet access, but as a sales executive for an interactive marketing agency, he mostly values the Acela trains' reliability.
 ''They're very good at getting you where you need to be on time,'' he said. 
 Although he said he would like to see the trains travel at faster speeds, a more important item on his Amtrak wish list is making the process for ticket changes and refunds easier. 
 With future improvements to the reservation system, Amtrak plans to allow customers to make ticket changes online, and possibly allow passengers to print boarding passes at home. Mr. Lim said the latter option is more challenging because conductors would have to carry ticket scanners. 
 Another challenge for Amtrak is to price its fares competitively, yet find a way to improve its financial performance. An analysis by the Pew Charitable Trusts' project Subsidyscope calculated that 41 of Amtrak's 44 routes lost money last year. The average loss was $32 a passenger, though the Acela Express line earned $41 a passenger, suggesting that faster trains are crucial to profitability, according to the data.
 ''The Acela, of course, is the moneymaker,'' said Marcus Peacock, project director for Subsidyscope. ''And that's the closest thing we have to high-speed rail right now.''
 Amtrak's Acela fares between New York and Washington range from $133 to $221 one-way, compared with $49 to $139 for the slower Northeast regional train. Advance-purchase airfares for the same route can be $150 roundtrip, an important consideration for travelers. 
 ''Our clients look at the price,'' said Dave Kilduff, senior director of ground transportation for Carlson Wagonlit Travel, a travel management company, though he added that service and travel time are important, too, and that many travelers are surprised by their experience with the train.
 ''Once they try it, they see it's much more pleasant than they expected,'' he said. ''The faster they go, the more people will get on them.''
 But to achieve those speeds, and turn Amtrak's blueprints into reality, some industry experts say what is needed is a broader transportation strategy rather than separate approaches to air, highway and rail travel.
 ''The United States doesn't really have an integrated transportation plan,'' said Robert L. Crandall, the former chairman of the AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines. He recently participated in a Transportation Department forum on the aviation industry. 
 ''What is needed is some kind of overall plan, and it has to be done by the government,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A train at Washington's Union Station. Amtrak is adding free Wi-Fi service on its Northeast trains in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (89%); RAILROAD MAINTENANCE (79%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); APPROVALS (70%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (52%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



794 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Broadcasters Escalate Fight For Cable Fees

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
 The nearly billion-dollar battle between broadcasters and cable operators over programming fees has gone public.
The News Corporation is threatening to remove its Fox stations from Time Warner Cable systems at the end of this week if the cable company does not agree to pay sizable subscriber fees, the same way it does for cable channels. In negotiations, the News Corporation is pushing for about $1 a month for each subscriber, potentially setting a precedent for broadcasters that are seeking a new revenue stream to offset advertising declines. 
 Time Warner Cable is playing hardball, running an advertising campaign to prepare viewers for the prospect of a January without college bowl games or ''American Idol.'' The company's so-called retransmission agreements covering Fox's stations in New York, Los Angeles, Dallas, Orlando and other cities expire on Dec. 31.
 Fights over retransmission affect every person who pays for television, because the fees are ultimately added to monthly bills. It will ''without a doubt translate to increasing costs for consumers that buy packages of programming,'' said Melinda Witmer, the chief programming officer for Time Warner Cable. (It announced annual rate increases for customers this month.) 
 The News Corporation is demanding the money on behalf of its 27 owned stations, but it is also pressuring about 150 affiliates for a share of their retransmission payments. 
 The public posturing is the clearest sign yet that the owners of Fox, CBS and other over-the-air networks are demanding substantial amounts from the cable operators that carry their content into millions of homes.
 For most of the last two decades, the owners of networks effectively gave away the retransmission rights for their stations in exchange for prime positions on cable systems. Now, however, beleaguered networks and their affiliates want direct payments for their programming. Cable channels like TNT and ESPN operate the same way; they make money both from advertising and from subscriber fees.
 Some over-the-air stations started to wring fees out of smaller carriers several years ago. For stations, the fees normally amount to nickels, dimes and occasionally quarters for each subscriber each month. But Fox is asking for much more.
 The companies declined to comment about the specifics to the negotiations, but people close to the matter confirmed the $1 demand by Fox's owned and operated stations.
 ''Time Warner packages and resells our signal for its customers, and they make a lot of money doing it. We simply want to seek fair compensation for that,'' said Mike Hopkins, Fox's president of affiliate sales and marketing.
 Mr. Hopkins says the dispute is part of a larger negotiation with Time Warner Cable that also involves some of the News Corporation's cable channels, like FX and the Speed Channel. 
 The talks -- which are about to start in earnest in Los Angeles -- pit Glenn A. Britt, the chief executive of Time Warner Cable, against Chase Carey, the new president and chief operating officer of the News Corporation. 
 Mr. Carey has experience on the other end of the table: he ran DirecTV, the satellite distributor, until last June. He has said publicly that Fox is worth $5 a month, given its sports programming and prime-time hits. That would make Fox even more valuable than ESPN, the most costly cable channel, which earns about $4 for each subscriber.
 ''We realize this is going to be a tough challenge,'' Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, told investors two months ago, ''but we're determined to take a leadership position in creating an economic template for the future.''
 In an assessment last week, the Miller Tabak analyst David C. Joyce said the talks were ''precedent-setting'' for Fox. Some analysts believe the companies will reach a compromise of 50 to 60 cents for each subscriber.
 Satellite operators like the Dish Network and telecommunications companies like Verizon have generally been more willing than cable operators to compensate local stations, television executives say. But in the last year, CBS reached significant deals with Time Warner Cable and Cablevision. CBS reportedly receives up to 50 cents for each subscriber, although the deals vary.
 ''The world has acknowledged that networks deserve to get paid for their content like cable networks get paid,'' said Leslie Moonves, the chief executive of the CBS Corporation, who has been the industry's most vocal supporter of retransmission fees.
 Mr. Moonves said he expected CBS's owned stations would earn $200 million to $250 million in retransmission revenue by 2012. All the networks are talking about retransmission ''in a much more pertinent manner right now,'' Mr. Moonves said.
 The amount paid by cable, satellite and telecommunications operators ''has grown by double digits'' for each of the last three years, said Justin Nielson, an analyst for the research firm SNL Kagan. He projects that stations will earn $933 million in retransmission fees next year, up from $739 million this year. 
 But the fees account for just 5 percent of station revenue, according to SNL Kagan -- hardly a savior for broadcasters. Cable channels, meanwhile, are on track to earn almost $28 billion from fees next year.
 Creating a new front in the fight, networks like CBS and Fox are telling affiliates to start sharing the retransmission fees they receive from carriers, too. They figure that because they provide marquee programming, they should share in the fees. 
 ''There are certain affiliates that are totally on board and get it, and there are certain affiliates that object to it,'' Mr. Moonves said. ''It will come to a head as the deals with station groups come up,'' a multiyear process.
 Between Fox and Time Warner Cable, the fight is not about whether Fox should be paid, but about how much. The cable company says that it is willing to pay for retransmission, and that it is only balking at Fox's asking price. ''There's no question we've seen an increase in desperation on the broadcast side,'' Ms. Witmer said.
 Ahead of several renewal fights, the company called on customers to ''get tough'' in TV commercials and print ads that claimed that networks like Fox were ''demanding price increases as high as 300 percent.'' The commercials played like political ads, complete with ornaments falling off an animated Christmas tree. 
 Fox responded with a campaign Web site of its own that said it was merely asking for ''fair value compensation.'' It noted that TNT, a cable channel with a fraction of Fox's budget, earns about $1 per subscriber. On Monday night it informed viewers across the country about the feud in graphics on the screen during the medical drama ''House.''
 Ms. Witmer said there were crucial differences between Fox, which is available over the air, and TNT, which is a ''cable product.'' She said Time Warner Cable was concerned about the amount of programming that Fox puts on the Internet, undermining the cable business model. Unlike broadcasters, she added, cable channels provide carriers with advertising time.
 Fox will argue in the coming days that Time Warner Cable can easily afford to pay more for its signal. Mr. Hopkins said Monday that the cable operator's rate increases in New York alone, which go into effect in January, ''would be more than enough to pay for Fox in all these markets.''
 A Time Warner Cable spokesman, Alex Dudley, said the ''single biggest factor in rate increases are egregious acts by programmers like Fox.''
 Caught in the middle are TV viewers. Last week Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, called on both sides to strike a deal because, he said, ''millions of football fans are depending on it.'' 
 In a letter to Mr. Britt and Mr. Carey, he suggested that the stations remain available to cable customers if the two sides fail to reach a deal by Jan. 1. For how long? Mr. Kerry wrote, ''Through the college bowl season.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AT TIME WARNER: Glenn A. Britt, the chief of Time Warner Cable, which mounted an aggressive ad campaign to prepare viewers for the prospect of a January without college bowl games or ''American Idol'' on Fox. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 AT FOX: Chase Carey, a top executive at the News Corporation, which owns Fox. Fox responded to Time Warner's ads with a Web site, Keep Fox On, that said it was merely asking for ''fair value compensation.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (95%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (90%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (95%); NWS (ASX) (95%); TWC (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%)

PERSON: CHASE CAREY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009



795 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: For Budget Director, A Successful Proposal

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
Rahm Emanuel once said of Peter R. Orszag, the economist who is President Obama's budget director, ''He's made nerdy sexy.'' 
 So perhaps Mr. Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, was not surprised to learn that Mr. Orszag became engaged over lunch on Monday to Bianna Golodryga, the ABC News correspondent he began dating six months ago. 
 ''Great news!'' Mr. Orszag, right, with Ms. Golodryga, said in an e-mail message to about 50 friends and fellow budget geeks.
 Reached in New York, where Ms. Golodryga is working this week, Mr. Orszag said the wedding was likely to be in October -- a month typically significant to him for being the start of a new fiscal year in the government's budget calendar.
 Mr. Orszag, well known as a hyper-organized multitasker, will have to juggle wedding preparations with his work to bring down trillion-dollar deficits -- the largest since World War II -- even as other officials and Democrats in Congress are pressing for more spending and tax cuts to spur job creation.
 Mr. Orszag met Ms. Golodryga, a business and economics correspondent who, at 31, is a decade younger than him, at the White House Correspondents Dinner last May, where Mr. Orszag was a guest at ABC's table. They have dated ever since, drawing attention in gossip columns for their attendance at several high-profile events.
 But Mr. Orszag could not get Ms. Golodryga into the Obamas' recent state dinner -- the one crashed by two uninvited guests -- because he was told that administration staff members could take only a spouse. So he skipped it rather than go without her.
 Mr. Orszag said Ms. Golodryga had probably suspected that he was going to propose this weekend during a planned trip to Vermont. Instead he put a ''very nice'' ring on the table when they had lunch at Sarabeth's restaurant near Central Park. He said he got clearance to do so this month from his two children from his first marriage while on vacation in Florida.
 The attraction? ''She's a Russian Jew,'' he said, ''who gets up earlier than I do.'' JACKIE CALMES 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); TAX LAW (67%); WORLD WAR II (52%); JOB CREATION (52%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (92%); RAHM EMANUEL (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



796 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Ready for 2010, Some Films Shot Way Back When

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Go to a new movie in early 2010, and chances are good you'll end up with an eyeful of 2008. And the star you see promoting that film may look a wee bit older than the one up there on the screen.
 Thanks to some deliberate scheduling bumps and the lingering effect of Hollywood's long-passed writers' strike, a surprising number of the new year's first releases --from major studios like Paramount and Universal as well as from minimajors like Lionsgate and the Weinstein Company -- were actually shot about two years ago. 
 Through the holidays, the market has been peppered with timelier movies. Those included ''It's Complicated,'' a tale of middle-aged romance filmed earlier this year, and ''Up in the Air,'' which wrapped principal photography in the spring, and managed to capture the country's dour mood with its recession-themed story line.
 But the crop of movies for the first quarter of 2010 are not quite so new.
 ''Youth in Revolt,'' from the Weinstein Company and its Dimension Films division, got its green light in spring 2008, when its star, Michael Cera, was still a teenager, and not much older than his character, the lovesick Nick Twisp. But Mr. Cera will be just five months shy of his 22nd birthday when the movie is released on Jan. 8, and has appeared in four films since ''Youth in Revolt'' was shot.
 ''Green Zone,'' an Iraq war drama from Universal Pictures and Working Title Films scheduled to be released on March 12, was shot in early 2008. At the time, George W. Bush was president, the war was still on everyone's mind and the movie's star, Matt Damon, was more than a year away from going to work on ''Invictus,'' which weeks ago leapfrogged over ''Green Zone'' into theaters.
 Even older is ''Daybreakers,'' a futuristic vampire thriller starring Ethan Hawke and Willem Dafoe, set for release in early January. As the film was being shot in 2007, Heath Ledger was working on his Oscar-winning performance in ''The Dark Knight,'' and Michael Jackson was nearly two years away from announcing a comeback tour that would become the subject of a posthumous movie long since released by Sony Pictures.
 At least 16 of the 28 films set for release by Hollywood's major studios and larger independent studios in the first quarter, according to a recent schedule from Exhibitor Relations, finished shooting in 2008 or earlier. About 70 percent of those companies' releases in January and February date to 2008 or earlier.
 Studio films typically hit the market about a year after principal photography begins, though elaborate productions like Fox's ''Avatar,'' which began shooting in 2007, can require months of additional work on editing and special effects.
 But much of this 2010 crop is at least six months older than usual. By April that trend will fade, as companies begin releasing fresher fare, like ''Wall Street 2,'' set for release by Fox on April 23, though Oliver Stone finished shooting it only last month.
 The older movies bunched up partly because studios delayed releasing films that would have competed in a crowded Oscar season. They will instead try their luck in the midwinter months, which this year produced a surprising number of hits, including the modestly budgeted thriller ''Taken'' and the comedy ''Paul Blart: Mall Cop.''
 Angling for the winter audience, Paramount moved the wide release of Peter Jackson's ''Lovely Bones'' to January from December, after a limited run to qualify for the 2009 Oscars, and bumped Martin Scorsese's ''Shutter Island'' to Feb. 19 from a planned October date.
 In a recent interview, Brad Grey, Paramount's chairman, said it was not easy telling Mr. Scorsese that his movie would sit on the shelf for a while. ''I had to make a difficult judgment, and I did, and I explained that to Marty,'' he said of the decision to let ''Shutter Island,'' shot in mid-2008, slide into 2010.
 Despite a good year at the box office, the film economy remained weak because of falling DVD sales, and that, Mr. Grey said, made such decisions inevitable. In exchange for what he called the ''privilege'' of making distinguished films, ''you have to deliver, and should deliver, for the shareholders.''
 That slightly older films have clustered in the coming quarter also owes something to a frenzy of activity that preceded the three-month writers' strike that began in late 2007. Studio executives stockpiled scripts, then quickly shot a spate of films that are still working their way through the system.
 ''Green Zone'' was part of that surge, as were ''The Wolfman'' and ''Repo Men,'' a pair of 2008 movies set for release by Universal in the next few months.
 Conventional wisdom says that films are damaged by delay, either because the audience begins to suspect trouble or simply because the culture at large moves on.
 ''The Adventures of Pluto Nash'' and ''Town & Country,'' two notorious flops, weren't helped by long delays between principal photography and release dates.
 Yet a public outcry over a decision by Warner Brothers to hold ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince'' for a half-year did not keep it from taking in $302 million at the domestic box office when it was finally released this July.
 David Permut, the producer of ''Youth in Revolt,'' said he was at ease with the decision to bump his movie from a planned release in October to January.
 ''Think about not going up against that onslaught of Oscar movies,'' Mr. Permut said.
 Besides, he added, delay is nothing new for ''Youth in Revolt,'' which is based on a series of books written by C. D. Payne and published in 1993.
 ''It's traveled a 17-year course to find its way to the screen,'' he said.
 ''A few extra months don't mean much.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matt Damon, above, in ''Green Zone,'' an Iraq drama shot in 2008 and being released in March. Below, ''The Wolfman,'' also shot in 2008.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASIN BOLAND/UNIVERSAL PICTURES
FRANK OCKENFELS/ UNIVERSAL PICTURES SHUTTER ISLAND)(C1)
YOUTH IN REVOLT: Michael Cera and Portia Doubleday
Mr. Cera was still a teenager when ''Youth'' got its green light.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE BIRMELIN/DIMENSION FILMS)
SHUTTER: ISLAND Leonardo DiCaprio stars in this Martin Scorsese film, whose release was pushed back to February.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PARAMOUNT PICTURES)
 DAYBREAKERS: Ethan Hawke, left, and Willem Dafoe, in a futuristic film in which vampires have taken over, shot in 2007.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN ROTHSTEIN/LIONSGATE)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BEGINNING OF FILMING (78%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WRITERS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%)

COMPANY: WEINSTEIN CO LLC (93%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (79%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (58%); MATT DAMON (58%); HEATH LEDGER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



797 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: HOMICIDES NEAR RECORD LOW RATE IN NEW YORK CITY

BYLINE: By AL BAKER; Andrew W. Lehren contributed reporting.

 BODY:
There were days upon days in New York City when not a single person was murdered in 2009. Two such stretches, in February and March, lasted nearly a week each. 
 There were some pockets of the city where homicide was a singular occurrence: 12 of the city's 77 police precincts, in locations as varied as Hamilton Heights, in Upper Manhattan, and Park Slope, Brooklyn, had logged one each through Sunday.
 The story line of murder in New York is one that has been undergoing constant revision since 1963, when the Police Department began tracking homicides in a way that officials now deem reliable. (Before then, homicides were not counted until they were solved.) There have been rises -- the number peaked at 2,245 in 1990 -- and subsequent falls. But there have never been as few homicides as this year.
 The city is on track, for the second time in three years, to have the fewest homicides in a 12-month period since the current record keeping system began. As of Sunday, there had been 461; the record low was in 2007, when there were 496 for the entire year. 
 The toll has gone down despite predictions that it would rise in a bad economy -- a notion rejected by the city's police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly. But challenges persist: With the city facing a $4.1 billion budget deficit, the police force -- which has been reduced by 6,000 officers since 2001 -- may have to shrink further.
 ''The mantra of 'do more with less' is certainly a very important principle in the Police Department,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''And these numbers show it.''
 The decline in homicides is happening not only in New York. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation's uniform crime report for the first half of 2009, homicides fell 10 percent nationwide compared with the same period in 2008. But New York showed a 19 percent decline, the report said, and the city's homicide rate of 6 per 100,000 people was far lower than those of New Orleans, Chicago or Baltimore. 
 In the first half of 2009, homicides fell in Los Angeles by 29.8 percent, in Atlanta by 14 percent, in Chicago by 11.8 percent, in Philadelphia by 11.2 percent and in Boston by 10.3 percent. They rose in Detroit by 11.6 percent, in Baltimore by 9.5 percent and in New Orleans by 3.2 percent.
 ''All the experts said it couldn't be done in a down economy,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said Monday in a speech to a graduating Police Academy class. 
 Later, in an appearance with Mr. Kelly to herald the latest crime statistics, the mayor said the lower ''murder rate is an indisputable measure of progress.''
 Overall, major crime -- which includes seven categories like murder, rape, robbery and auto theft -- was down 11 percent from last year. The only classification that rose was felony assault, which was up 2 percent.
 In examining the city's 461 homicides so far this year, much can be learned about how the police count the victims. For instance, homicides caused by negligence or those deemed justifiable by prosecutors are not counted. In 2008, at least five deaths fit those circumstances and were not included in the homicide tally, according to an analysis of department data. The 2009 number is not yet available.
 By contrast, some crimes from years ago are included in the 2009 count. There are 16 reclassified cases involving victims who died this year from injuries sustained in the past.
 One of those victims was James Crawford, 65, who died in October of injuries related to an assault in 1965. In March, William Jenkins, 67, died after he was admitted to Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, where he was treated for multiple infections. The medical examiner's office attributed those infections to the fact that he had been paralyzed after being shot on Oct. 21, 1960, the police said.
 In the nearly five decades of the current record keeping system, one thing has not changed: guns are still the deadliest of weapons.
 Most of this year's victims -- 283 of them -- were killed with a gun fired by someone they knew. Others were stabbed (90 cases), hit with a blunt instrument (28) or asphyxiated (16). One victim was murdered with a car. 
 Only 34 percent of the victims, no matter how they died, were killed by strangers.
 Curbing gun use is linked to lowering the homicide rate, officials said, and Mr. Kelly lauded the mayor's effort to stop illegal guns from flowing into New York, saying 90 percent of the guns that are confiscated after they are used in crimes come from out of state. He also cited the department's program of questioning and frisking some people on the streets as a ''lifesaving'' strategy that had led to the seizure of 7,000 weapons this year, including 800 guns.
 ''We have a policy of engagement, and I think it's working,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''We believe young people who may have a gun think twice before they take it out on the street.''
 The commissioner said the city's success in lowering the homicide rate can also be traced to programs like Operation Impact, which increases the police presence in areas where a higher crime rate stubbornly persists, and the Real Time Crime Center, which feeds detectives instant intelligence data.
 ''We always modify, hone and adjust our strategies,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''We are getting better and better at it.''
 The Central Park Precinct is the only one that has logged no homicides so far this year. The dozen that have had only one include the 123rd on the south shore of Staten Island; the 111th in Bayside, Queens; the 45th, in the northeast area of the Bronx that includes Co-op City, and the 50th, which covers Riverdale, Kingsbridge and other neighborhoods in the northwest Bronx; in Brooklyn, the 68th in Bay Ridge, Dyker Heights and Fort Hamilton, the 78th in Park Slope and the 84th, which includes Brooklyn Heights and Boerum Hill; and in Manhattan, the Fifth, in the Chinatown area, the Sixth, in the West Village, the 10th in Chelsea and parts of Midtown, the 13th, which covers Gramercy Park, and 30th in Hamilton Heights. 
 The borough breakdown of the 461 homicides that were counted through Sunday showed 200 in Brooklyn, 108 in the Bronx, 79 in Queens, 58 in Manhattan and 16 on Staten Island.
 Killers and their victims were overwhelmingly men, and were between 18 and 40 years old.
 Can murders drop again? That is always the question, said Thomas A. Reppetto, a police historian.
 ''And the answer is, 'Yes,' '' he said, ''if the federal government would shut off the flow of illegal guns from other states to New York.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at a Police Academy graduation ceremony Monday. ''All the experts said it couldn't be done,'' the mayor told the graduates.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A3) CHARTS: Homicides in New York City: are on track to hit a record low this year.(Source: N.Y.P.D.)(A1)
 Fewest Victims Since 1963: There were 461 homicides in New York City through Sunday, down more than 10 percent compared with 2008. This year's tally is on track to be the lowest since reliable record keeping began in 1963.(Source: New York City Police Department)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); MURDER (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); CRIME STATISTICS (67%); STATISTICS (66%); BUDGETS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



798 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Transformation on the Lower West Side

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
BUFFALO -- Mention the Lower West Side to anyone in New York City, and you'll be met with a puzzled stare, or come across as a misinformed tourist. But here in New York State's second-largest city, the Lower West Side is not an imaginary Manhattan neighborhood, but a community whose history mirrors that of Buffalo itself.
 Just west of downtown, the Lower West Side was historically a blue-collar Italian neighborhood, but in recent decades, Puerto Ricans and other Hispanics settled into the community. In recent years, the area has become home to resettled refugees from Myanmar, Somalia and other countries beset by conflict. To the west is Lake Erie, and to the northwest, the Peace Bridge linking western New York with Ontario. In the distance to the south looms City Hall, the city's best-known building, a gleaming Art Deco tower designed by John Wade and built between 1929 and 1931. 
 On a cold Monday, as snow fell outside, Michael Omar, 31, had time to chat. There was not much business inside his store, Bova's Old-Fashioned Deli. Mr. Omar, who is of Palestinian ancestry and has lived in the neighborhood his whole life, took over the store a couple of years ago from the grandson of its namesake. He works there, morning to night, as the sole proprietor. He plans to rename the store the M-Y Mini Mart, after his parents, Mike and Yasmin, who left the neighborhood as crime worsened and now live in North Buffalo. 
 Crime is Mr. Omar's biggest concern, followed closely by the economy. ''We have police officers who live on this block, but there are still shootings, robberies and drug dealing going on,'' he said.
 On Niagara Street, the neighborhood's main corridor, are a variety of social services agencies, stores offering tattoos and haircuts, and a Tops supermarket that was celebrated when it opened a few years ago.
 Buffalo has played a vital role in the growth of New York City. Both cities grew after the completion of the Erie Canal in 1825, though Buffalo's economic heyday has long since passed, in part because the St. Lawrence Seaway made the canal obsolete. Both cities are port cities: New York's harbors and airports have welcomed immigrants from around the world, while Buffalo, just over the border from Canada, is the site of considerable cross-border traffic. 
 And both cities have seen transformations in their economies. Now far removed from its industrial past, Buffalo, like other rust belt cities, has been emphasizing health care and higher education as growth industries. (Greeting travelers arriving at Buffalo-Niagara International Airport were two giant advertisements for the Roswell Park Cancer Institute and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Western New York.)
 And like New York City, Buffalo has seen its neighborhoods transformed by patterns of ethnic succession. The city elected its first black mayor, Byron W. Brown, in 2005. 
 On the Lower West Side, several buildings bear witness to the demographic changes. On the side of the Holy Cross Church school (built in 1948) is a plaque dedicated to a beloved bishop of Buffalo, John F. O'Hara, who became archbishop of Philadelphia. A Catholic Charities building nearby was erected in 1951. But nearby is a newer sign, noting the symbolic designation of Niagara Street as Avenida San Juan -- as in the capital of Puerto Rico. 
 There are other ethnic landmarks, like the Niagara Cafe, which opened in 1992 and quickly established itself as a local culinary fixture -- known for its rotisserie chickens, served with rice, beans and a special garlic sauce.
 The restaurant was founded by Raul Hernandez, 59, who immigrated to Buffalo from the small town of Moca, P.R., when he was 13. An intrepid entrepreneur, he ran a pizzeria, a grocery store and a liquor store before settling on the idea for the restaurant. 
 Mr. Hernandez's daughter, Lillian Cruz, 36, who was managing the business on Monday afternoon (her father usually comes in to manage the dinner crowd), was not terribly optimistic about Buffalo's prospects. ''It hasn't progressed much,'' she said of the neighborhood. ''It seems to be going downhill.'' 
 Ms. Cruz, a mother of two children, ages 13 and 19, said Buffalo needed to improve the quality of its policing and public education system. 
 As for that other city -- New York -- Ms. Cruz, like other Buffalo residents interviewed on Monday, said it might as well be on a different planet. ''We're so far apart, at different ends of the state,'' she said. ''It's way slower here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Niagara Cafe on Buffalo's Lower West Side has been owned by Raul Hernandez since 1992. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN CAPPELLAZZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); IMMIGRATION (75%); REFUGEES (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); LAKES (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); CONVENIENCE STORES (66%); CANCER (63%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (62%); AIRPORTS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (51%)

COMPANY: BLUECROSS BLUESHIELD OF WESTERN NEW YORK (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); LAKE ERIE (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



799 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: The Sidney Awards II

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
On Friday, I gave out the first batch of Sidney Awards for the best magazine essays of the year. Frankly, it was disappointing to see how quickly some winners were corrupted by fame. Several have already abandoned their families, accepted spots on reality shows and begun hanging out with Lil Wayne. I'm hoping today's winners will do a better job of keepin' it real.
 Steven Brill's essay, ''The Rubber Room,'' in The New Yorker generated a lot of discussion. It's about the room where New York City schoolteachers who have been dismissed for incompetence sit for years on end and continue to collect their six-figure salaries for doing nothing. The word Dickensian doesn't fully describe the madness of a system that cannot get rid of bad teachers. 
 Brill takes readers inside the room, and describes the arbitration hearings for teachers who want to be reinstated. One hearing, with clear-cut evidence against the teacher, stretches on 50 per cent longer than the O.J. trial. 
 Few essays are as ruthlessly honest as Bethany Vaccaro's piece, ''Shock Waves,'' in The American Scholar. Vaccaro's brother Robert suffered a brain injury, caused by an I.E.D. explosion in Iraq in January 2007.
 Vaccaro describes her first glimpse of him weeks after the explosion at Bethesda Naval Hospital. ''Robert was swollen and bloated; his skin was puffy and enamel white. He looked worse than dead and somehow a bit reptilian.'' But the real subject of the essay is the injury's effect on her family. ''Now it defines our daily existence. The ongoing process of rehabilitation since his injury has tenaciously enmeshed each one of us, altering our plans, our family structure and interactions, our ideas about life and sacrifice, and most resolutely our belief that if he would only make it back home, everything would be O.K.''
 Robert's injury, she writes, has ''allowed him to come so close to being normal, and yet miss it altogether ... He will frequently prattle away with wide-eyed seriousness and then collapse into silly laughter that is sweet and uninhibited but also sad coming from a 25-year-old man.''
 After the Israeli incursion into Gaza, the U.N. produced the Goldstone Report, a tendentious and simple-minded account of Israeli tactics. But the report at least produced a sophisticated response, ''The Goldstone Illusion,'' by Moshe Halbertal in The New Republic.
 Here's a typical problem: Hamas fires rockets from apartment buildings. Israel calls the residents of the buildings to warn them a counterattack is coming. Hamas then escorts the residents to the roof, knowing Israeli drones will not fire on crowded roofs. Israel then deploys a ''roof-knocking missile,'' a weapon designed to scare people off roofs in preparation for an attack. Halbertal wrestles with the moral boundaries that should guide this kind of warfare.
 On the big think front, Josef Joffe has a bracing essay, ''The Default Power,'' in Foreign Affairs, puncturing the claims that America is in decline. William M. Chace wrote ''The Decline of the English Department'' in The American Scholar on why fewer and fewer college students major in the humanities.
 Jim Manzi's essay, ''Keeping America's Edge,'' in National Affairs, explores two giant problems. First, widening inequality; second, economic stagnation, the fear that without rapid innovation, the U.S. will fall behind China and other rising powers.
 Manzi investigates a dilemma. Most efforts to expand the welfare state to tackle inequality will slow innovation. Efforts to free up enterprise, meanwhile, will only exacerbate inequality because the already educated will benefit most from information economy growth. 
 In her Policy Review essay, ''Is Food the New Sex?,'' Mary Eberstadt notes that people in modern societies are freer to consume more food and sex than their ancestors. But this has produced a paradox. For most of human history, food was a matter of taste while sex was governed by universal moral laws. Now the situation is nearly reversed. Food has become enmeshed in moralism while the privacy of the bedroom is sacred. Eberstadt asks why, and provides a philosophical answer.
 It's become fashionable to bash Malcolm Gladwell for being too interesting and not theoretical enough. This is absurd. Gladwell's pieces in The New Yorker are always worth reading, so I'll just pick out one, ''Offensive Play,'' on the lingering effects of football violence, for a Sidney award -- in part to celebrate his work and in part as protest against the envious herd.
 There are, of course, many other essays that, in a less arbitrary world, would get Sidneys. Fortunately there are a few Web sites that provide daily links to the best that is thought and said. Arts and Letters Daily is the center of high-toned linkage on the Web. The Browser is a trans-Atlantic site with a superb eye for the interesting and the profound. Book Forum has a more academic feel, but it is also worth a daily read.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); HAMAS (84%); DISMISSALS (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (68%); BRAIN INJURIES (65%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (61%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAQ (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



800 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Banana Wars

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
I can hardly believe the banana wars are over. The dispute started back in 1993 when the European Union set quotas favoring banana imports from Ivory Coast, the Windward Islands and other former colonies at the expense of imports from Latin America. American banana companies and the Latin American countries where they grow their bananas sued the E.U., accusing it of rigging an unfair trade deal, first under the GATT and then under the W.T.O. 
 The suit dragged on for years, and at several points threatened to spark an all-out trade war between Washington and Europe. In 1999, after a meeting on Kosovo was hijacked by the banana crisis, the secretary of state then, Madeleine Albright, declared in exasperation: ''I never in my life thought I would spend so much time on bananas.'' 
 It finally ended this month when the E.U. said it would continue to grant tariff-free access to its former colonies but would reduce tariffs on Latin American bananas by 35 percent over seven years. The United States and Latin American producers agreed to drop their case. After all the roiling, what strikes me now is how little people seem to care. That says a lot about how attitudes toward trade have changed. 
 When this started, trade was trumpeted as the single most important tool for development. Europe insisted that its special treatment of its former colonies was central to its post-imperial responsibilities. The United States and Latin American countries vowed to hold the line for free trade -- over bananas at least -- to make it a tool of development for all.
 Today nobody talks about bananas. Stalled global trade talks (remember Doha?) barely get mentioned. There are a lot of problems out there, including the collapse of world trade in the wake of the global recession and the looming threat of protectionism. Yet there has also been a rethinking about trade's supposed silver bullet role in economic development. 
 China's growth stands as a beacon for the power of trade. But others that have hitched their economic strategy to trade, like Mexico, have found prosperity elusive. Despite growing banana exports, both the Latin American banana exporters and Europe's impoverished former colonies remain poor. 
 One thing we have learned over the past 15 years is that trade is necessary but not sufficient for development. Countries also need investment in infrastructure, technology and human capital. They need credit. They need legitimate institutions -- like clean courts to battle monopolies -- and help building them. Putting up a few barriers against banana imports, or tearing a few of them down, can't do it all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); MEXICO (79%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

 
