

1 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Latino Immigrants Send Money Home

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
More than three million Latin American immigrants in the United States, responding to the economic downturn and new uncertainties about their future, have stopped sending money home to their families in the last two years, according to a survey released on Wednesday by the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington. 
 Only 50 percent of some 18.9 million Latino immigrants in this country now send money regularly to relatives in their home countries, compared with 73 percent two years ago, the survey found. 
 The drop in the number of people sending remittances, as the money transfers are known, is a sign of pressures on Latino immigrants as a result of the slump in the low-wage job market and of the Bush administration's crackdown on illegal immigration, the survey shows. Of the immigrants interviewed, 47 percent said they did not have legal status. The others were American citizens and legal immigrants. 
 But while the number of immigrant senders declined, the total amount of remittances actually rose slightly between 2006 and this year, the study reported. It estimated total remittances to Latin America at $45.9 billion in 2008, an increase of $500 million over 2006. The amount did not decrease more sharply because Latino immigrants who continued to send funds home sent more money more frequently, the survey found. 
 However, the total amount of money transfers reported by the development bank slackened abruptly after a five-year period of huge growth in remittances to the region. Between 2001 and 2006, the amount of the transfers tripled, to $45 billion from $15 billion, according to figures from the bank, a multilateral organization based in Washington that finances development projects in Latin America. 
 ''The longstanding pattern of increasing numbers of Latin American immigrants sending increasing amounts of money back home has stopped,'' said Donald F. Terry, the general manager of the Multilateral Investment Fund at the bank and the official in charge of the survey. With lower income and less job security, Latino immigrants are saving their money here rather than sending it to support children, spouses and parents at home, the study indicated. 
 Latino immigrants said they stopped sending money to their families because life is becoming more difficult for them here. Of those interviewed, 81 percent said it was harder to find a good-paying job. Almost 40 percent said they were earning less this year. The largest group of immigrants in the survey, 18 percent, worked in construction, which has been especially hard hit in the slowdown.
 A large majority of the Latino immigrants in the survey -- whether or not they were illegal -- said they experienced increasing hostility as a result of federal and state efforts to curb illegal immigration and punish employers who hire unauthorized immigrant workers. In the survey, 61 percent of Latinos who were American citizens and 66 percent of those who were legal immigrants said that discrimination had become a major problem for them.
 As a result of the difficulties, the numbers of immigrants who said they were considering going back to live in their home countries increased notably. Among immigrants who have been here less than five years, 49 percent said they were thinking of returning home, while only 41 percent said they planned to remain in the United States. Over all, just under one-third of the immigrants said they were thinking of leaving this country. 
 In 2001, the last time a similar survey asked a comparable question, about 20 percent of all the immigrants interviewed said they were thinking of going home.
 But Latino immigrant workers who participated in focus groups as part of the survey said they were not ready to leave the United States quite yet, said Sergio Bendixen, the Miami-based pollster who conducted the survey. Instead of going home, the immigrants said they were taking jobs at lower wages or sometimes working two jobs to try to maintain their income, he said. 
 ''These are resourceful people who will do whatever job is available,'' Mr. Bendixen said. ''The major dynamic that is holding them back from sending money is fear. They don't know whether they won't be able to get a job anymore.'' 
 Despite the worsening conditions in the United States, 69 percent of the immigrants in the survey said their financial situation was good or excellent compared with their prospects at home. 
 The families of an estimated 3.2 million immigrants who would lose income because they would no longer receive transfers from the United States were among the poorest in the region, and the majority were in Mexico, said Mr. Terry, the bank official. 
 The survey was conducted in Spanish from Feb. 9-23 with a sample of 5,000 interviews and a margin of error of 1 percentage point. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%)

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (58%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



2 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Police Expect Calm at Immigration Rally

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A day before thousands are expected to converge here as part of the annual May Day pro-immigration rallies nationwide, police officials said Wednesday that new technology, training for officers and better communication would prevent a repeat of the melee that concluded demonstrations in Los Angeles last year. 
 Tens of thousands of immigrants and their supporters marched peacefully last year across the country, and although organizers predict lower numbers this year, they said marchers would again demand legal status for illegal immigrants and an end to raids aimed at deporting them. Rallies are planned in New York, Chicago, Boston, Houston, Denver and many other cities.
 Here, three marches are expected to unite downtown into a rally of 20,000 to 80,000, a far cry from the one million, by some estimates, that marched at the first demonstrations, in spring 2006.
 Since then, Congress has failed to pass legislation revamping immigration laws, while states have passed or proposed 1,000 bills aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration. Fencing along the Mexican border has proceeded, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement has stepped up raids and deportations.
 Joshua Hoyt, an organizer of some of the largest rallies, in Chicago, said protest efforts had largely shifted to voter registration and citizenship drives. He said the crowds this year might also be thinned by illegal immigrants' seeking to keep a low profile and a sense that mass demonstrations had run their course.
 ''This is going to be a long-term fight,'' Mr. Hoyt said. ''The demographics, the economy and national security make some kind of legalization inevitable and necessary.''
 But people who support tougher enforcement of immigration laws have not been impressed by the rallies.
 ''We need to secure our borders and hold accountable employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens,'' Representative Brian P. Bilbray, a Republican from San Diego, said in a statement, adding, ''To those who believe that we should reward illegal aliens with citizenship, I ask: What part of the word 'illegal' don't you understand?''
 Whatever the political outcome of Thursday's demonstrations, the police here recognize the damage its image and community relations suffered after riot police swooped in last year and trampled demonstrators and journalists in scenes replayed on national television.
 The city is facing legal claims from a few hundred people, and Chief William J. Bratton of the Los Angeles Police Department, acknowledging poor training and a cascade of leadership lapses, has shaken up his command.
 Deputy Chief Michael Hillmann at a news conference on Wednesday promised new, more restrained tactics would rule the day and said, ''I look forward to having you all out there.'' 
 He spoke of new ''constructs'' and ''fusion centers'' and ''surgical extraction teams'' to remove troublemakers and keep the peace, bolstered by hours of new training in crowd control for line officers and commanders.
 To address the lack of Spanish-speaking police officers on the scene last year, the department has brought in all-terrain vehicles, engineered by the Defense Department, that electronically provide simultaneous translation to spoken commands.
 But, in the end, Chief Hillmann said, it boils down to this: ''You arrest the bad people, and you let the good continue on with it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A large May Day march is scheduled along Broadway in downtown Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); RIOTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (51%)

PERSON: BRIAN P BILBRAY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



3 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Adopting Meters, Washington Ends Taxi Zone System

BYLINE: By ARIEL SABAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Over the objections of cabdrivers, the District of Columbia is set on Thursday to scrap its seven-decade-old method of calculating taxi fares. Conventional time-and-distance meters will replace a system based on geographic zones. 
 The District was the only major American city to base fares on how many zones a cab crossed. Many riders, particularly out-of-town visitors, found the system of 23 zones confusing. Critics said it was too easy for unscrupulous drivers to overcharge.
 ''The riding public asked for a more transparent fare system, and the mayor responded,'' Leon J. Swain Jr., chairman of the Taxicab Commission, said in a phone interview.
 The meters will generally result in lower fares for short trips, but higher fares for longer ones.
 The switch has not gone over well with the city's more than 6,500 taxi drivers, who have mounted a series of one-day strikes, a petition drive and several legal challenges. 
 The cabbies say that lower fares will force many out of business. Further, they say, the zone system's flat rates helped poor residents budget for regular trips to the grocery store, work or doctors' offices.
 ''You know what you're going to pay when you get in the cab,'' said Nathan Price, a taxi driver for more than three decades who is now chairman of a coalition of city cab associations. ''To me it's an economic issue, a racial issue and a class issue.'' 
 Olayinka Coker, a city cabdriver for 22 years who works seven days a week, opposes the new meters but says he will not miss quarreling over fares. ''I'm tired of arguing with my passengers when they tell me, 'You don't have meters, do you make your fee up or what?' '' Mr. Coker said.
 Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan and a longtime critic of the zones, wrote legislation in 2006 requiring a shift to meters within a year unless the mayor specifically opted out. ''In my own experience, I have encountered probably 10 different cab fares for the same trip,'' Mr. Levin said in a letter last year to Mayor Adrian M. Fenty, who backed the change in October.
 The switch on Thursday comes a month after the city began a push to market itself to tourists.
 Passengers may still see some meterless cabs in May. Many drivers, hoping for court victories that never came, waited until the last moment to order the new devices. Drivers caught without meters will receive warnings until June 1, after which they will face $1,000 fines, city officials say.
 Under the new system, riders will pay a base rate of $3, which includes any distance up to the first sixth of a mile. Every additional sixth of a mile or minute of waiting will cost 25 cents. The top fare for any trip in the city is $19.
 Waiting for a cab outside Union Station this week, Mary Costner, 69, of Chatham, N.J., said the new system would help her judge the accuracy of her fare.
 ''It was uncomfortable because I really didn't know what they would charge,'' said Ms. Costner, a retired teacher, who travels to Washington by train about once a month to visit her granddaughter. ''With meters, it is what it is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Washington cabbie pointed to the bracket that will hold his new meter, starting on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (95%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); PETITIONS (67%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (51%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



4 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Lower Spending Is Taking a Toll On the Economy

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
For months, beleaguered American consumers have defied expert forecasts that they would soon succumb to the pressures of falling home prices, fewer jobs and shrinking paychecks. Now, they appear to have given in.
 On Wednesday, the Commerce Department reported that the economy continued to stagnate during the first three months of the year, with a sharp pullback in consumer spending the primary factor at play.
 Pressures on households in which cash is tight appeared to weigh significantly in the calculations of the Federal Reserve as it rolled back interest rates Wednesday for the seventh time since September -- this time by one-fourth of a percentage point -- in a bid to prevent a further falloff in the economy. 
 The Fed made clear, though, that investors and borrowers should not expect another drop in interest rates anytime soon. In the statement accompanying their action, policy makers said they believed that with the short-term rate at 2 percent, they had already unleashed enough economic stimulus to ''help promote moderate growth.'' 
 With the overall economy growing at a mere 0.6 percent annual rate for the second quarter in a row, consumer spending advanced by only 1 percent, the government estimated. That was down sharply from the 2.9 percent gain for all of 2007 and the 3.1 percent gain for 2006. It was the weakest showing since 2001, the last time the economy was ensnared in a recession.
 Even more ominously, Americans cut back on a wide variety of discretionary purchases, conserving their cash for necessary spending.
 In the dip, economists saw evidence that the basic laws of arithmetic are now impinging on millions of households.
 As real estate prices plunge, so does the ability of homeowners to borrow against the value of their homes, crimping a major artery of spending. As banks grow tighter with their dollars in a period of uncertainty, families are running up against credit limits, forcing many to live within their incomes. And as companies lay off employees and cut working hours, paychecks are effectively shrinking. 
 ''This is not a fluke or a technical quirk,'' said John E. Silvia, chief economist at Wachovia in Charlotte, N.C. ''It's fundamental. Real disposable income has been squeezed.''
 Consumer spending fell for a broad range of goods and services, including cars, auto parts, furniture, food and recreation, reflecting a growing inclination toward thrift. Areas in which spending rose were predominantly those not considered optional purchases, including health care, housing and utilities.
 The fact that the economy expanded at all, even by a tiny margin, sowed hopes that a recession might yet be averted. But most economists found in the details of the preliminary report signs of broadening economic distress at home even as businesses expanded production to meet growing demand from abroad.
 A panel of economists at the National Bureau of Economic Research, a private research organization, ultimately decides whether a particular period of weakness qualifies as a recession, which it defines as a ''significant decline in economic activity spread across the economy, lasting more than a few months.''
 Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute in Washington, said, ''The argument that we're not in a recession certainly gets a little bit more of a boost from this report.'' 
 But he and many other specialists still assume the economy will slide into negative territory. Moreover, the recession-or-not question is now almost entirely academic, Mr. Bernstein contended, given the steady erosion of American spending power and soaring costs for food and gasoline. 
 On Wednesday, the Labor Department reported that wages and benefits, adjusted for inflation, were down 0.6 percent in the January-March period, compared with a year earlier.
 ''A very significant slowdown in the economy has caused a lot of pain,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''That's a done deal.''
 The Commerce Department reported that growth was hampered in the first three months of the year by a continued decline in home construction, which fell for the ninth straight quarter, and by a pullback in investments for business equipment and buildings.
 The only factors preventing the economy from sliding backward were the growth of American exports -- aided by a weakening dollar -- and a swing in business inventories from shrinking to swelling. Putting exports and inventories aside, the final sales of goods and services produced domestically dipped at a 0.4 percent annual rate in inflation-adjusted terms, the first such decline since the end of 1991. 
 ''You're seeing a sharp slowdown in domestic demand,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners in Greenwich, Conn. ''This is stall-speed growth.''
 Economists suggested that larger stocks of unsold goods might portend trouble in the months ahead. If business does not swiftly improve, allowing factories to sell the products they have piled up, firms are likely to lay off workers at a more aggressive clip. 
 Even if business picks up and orders materialize, averting broader layoffs, factories will probably not need to produce as many new things in coming months, prompting some to trim working hours and purchases of materials.
 ''A big inventory contribution in one quarter means a payback in another quarter,'' said Zach Pandl, United States economist at Lehman Brothers. ''Firms are likely to pull back.''
 The biggest questions ahead center on the duration and severity of the downturn. Attention now turns to the job market and the tax rebate checks being sent out to roughly 130 million American taxpayers to encourage spending.
 On Friday, the Labor Department is to release its monthly snapshot of the jobs picture, which has become a primary factor gnawing at the economy. For four months in a row, the private sector has shed jobs, with 80,000 nonfarm jobs lost in March alone, according to the Labor Department.
 If, as widely expected, the jobs report shows another monthly decline, markets are likely to absorb it as a sign of an economy that has effectively slipped into a recession despite the modestly reassuring positive figures from the Commerce Department. 
 Most economists agree that the tax rebate checks will finance a flurry of spending that should stimulate economic growth. But whether it will be a quick binge lasting only a few months, or whether spending will crystallize a sense of confidence, prompting companies to expand and hire, is a matter of much contention.
 Even with the rebate checks, consumer spending should grow by only 1.7 percent this year and roughly the same next year, predicted Alan D. Levenson, chief economist at T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore. With spending that weak, the economy would probably continue to shed 75,000 to 80,000 jobs a month, even after stronger growth resumes, he said.
 The government has offered the rebate checks to buy time while it waits for the Fed's lowered interest rates to wash through the economy, nurturing fresh investment and hiring. But many economists are skeptical that such timing can be pulled off. Many forecasts show a dip in economic activity from April through June, then a bump up from the rebate checks before the economy slows again at the end of this year.
 ''It doesn't get us across the chasm,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the research and trading firm ITG, speaking of the rebate checks. ''It will make things look better than they are for a few months, but it doesn't change the fundamentals. The underlying circumstances are unambiguously recessionary.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers at Jack's 99-Cent Store in Manhattan in March. The government said first-quarter consumer spending rose 1 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



5 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; FITNESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: Cycling Success Measured in Frequent-Flier Miles

BYLINE: By SARAH TUFF

 BODY:
EARLY last year, Dr. Jason Newland, a 34-year-old pediatric infectious disease physician from Stilwell, Kan., decided he would upgrade his Cannondale road bike to something more aerodynamically suited for triathlons, where riders must fight the wind on their own, without the pack shielding them. But instead of ambling into a local sports shop, Mr. Newland flew nearly 1,400 miles from Kansas City, Mo., to Waitsfield, Vt., where he bought a custom titanium and carbon Serotta Legend Ti from a specialty-fit studio called Fit Werx. The price: about $7,000, not including travel. 
 ''It's hard to tell people I went all that way to buy a bicycle,'' Mr. Newland said. ''They say, 'Why didn't you find a place in Kansas City?' I'm kind of a fanatic.''
 It is apparently no longer enough for dedicated amateur or recreational cycling enthusiasts to pay $2,000 to $20,000 for custom-fit bikes, a practice that has become more commonplace in the last few years. Now, to fully appreciate the magnificence of their new toys, those athletes must also be able to tell of flight miles logged and far-off bicycle gurus consulted. 
 ''When you travel to do anything,'' said Matt Boyer, the marketing director at Wheat Ridge Cyclery near Denver, ''there is that cachet that says, 'What I'm doing is very important because I have to leave town to do it.' '' 
 Even with Ron Kiefel, a 1984 Olympic road cycling men's team time-trial bronze medalist, as its general manager, Mr. Boyer has been surprised at the number of out-of-staters drawn to the fitting mezzanine at the 30,000-square-foot shop. Nor has the recent economic downturn stalled the cyclists and triathletes from outside Colorado. ''If you're a $15,000 customer, the recession isn't going to stop you,'' he said. 
 Feeding the fire is the fact that high-end bike shops like Fit Werx and Wheat Ridge are courting buyers, not just with travel discounts and refunds but with more personal touches like dinner recommendations. 
 Fit Werx arranges lodging deals at local inns and will pick up customers at the airport, said Ian Buchanan, a fitter and an owner. Recently, he said, Fit Werx found a London-based cyclist a discount at the Yellow Farmhouse Inn in Waitsfield, took him to a restaurant and, the next day, shared leftover pizza and wine when rain ruled out a ride through the Mad River Valley. ''It's a bit of a concierge service here,'' Mr. Buchanan said. 
 In the six years Fit Werx has been open, Mr. Buchanan said, his out-of-state clientele has grown to more than 50 percent of his business. ''For some people, it's all about the bike and nothing else,'' he said. ''For others, it's about the whole experience that surrounds the bike.''
 Cyclists and triathletes have long sought ever-more-sophisticated equipment to help catch their competitors -- or at least the eye of their competitors. But in the last few years, said Christopher Kautz of PK Cycling in Fairfax, Calif., there has been a new appreciation of proper bike fit, which can not only improve aerodynamics but also increase comfort and reduce the chance of injury. 
 Bike fitting involves using measurements and computer technology to adjust the seat post, handlebars, crank arms and the stem. The process, which puts the rider through a range of positions on the bike, typically takes about three hours. (When it's time for tune-ups, long-distance buyers say they trust their local shops for minor repairs.)
 Megan Tompkins, the editor of Bicycle Retailer and Industry News, said more people than ever are traveling for a custom fit and a boutique bike. ''They're looking for something that's more comfortable and allows them to ride longer distances,'' she said. ''For the weekend warriors, it's also about having that unique bike, the cachet that comes along with having something that's different.''
 The increasing demand for custom-fit bikes parallels the surge in cycling, especially the growing popularity of triathlons. From 2002 to 2007, USA Cycling membership grew to 61,594 from 42,724. From 2003 to 2007, the number of USA Triathlon members more than doubled, to 100,674 from 47,373.
 Thanks to gear talk on blogs and articles in magazines like Triathlete and the competitive cycling publication VeloNews, some bike fitters and shops have gained reputations as the route to the best ride. Ron Bigelow, a retired lawyer and recreational cyclist, said he spent months researching fit and interviewing shops before flying from Houston to California to spend ''thousands'' on a custom-fit Serotta from Mr. Kautz, and one for his wife, Ellis. 
 ''When I talked with Christopher, I was favorably impressed with his approach,'' said Mr. Bigelow, who added that he found Mr. Kautz knowledgeable, personable and willing to answer many questions. And, Mr. Bigelow said, he and Mrs. Bigelow had already planned a vacation to San Francisco.
 Like Mr. Bigelow, many cycling and triathlon enthusiasts buy a bespoke machine from a distant shop by combining a bike-fit trip with business or pleasure. At Cadence, a cycling and triathlon store with locations in Philadelphia and TriBeCa in Manhattan, Karim Pine, the director of marketing, said that more than 40 percent of his buyers are from out of state or overseas and often make a vacation out of the bike-fitting experience. ''They want to scratch all their itches,'' he said.
 Last month, Doug Jacobs, the chief executive of an auto-finance company who lives in Weston, Fla., flew to Greenwich, Conn., for meetings and squeezed in a bike fit by Paul Levine at Signature Cycles on the counsel of several members in his road cycling club. 
 Mr. Jacobs, 45, said he began cycling about two years ago and is building up his skills before he enters races. In the meantime, he said, ''our group's pretty fast, and if you're not ready to ride really hard, you're going to get dropped.''
 So, after a two-and-a-half-hour fitting at Signature Cycles, which is known to pamper well-heeled clients with beer or wine and long discussions about lifestyles, Mr. Jacobs paid about $14,000 to have a Serotta MeiVici with hand-rolled carbon tubes custom built and shipped to him. ''I haven't gotten the bike yet, but I'm very excited,'' he said.
 Mr. Jacobs admitted that he can seem obsessed about his sport, but that considering the amount of time he puts into cycling, ''it's money well spent.''
 The weak dollar is also luring more overseas customers, said Christophe Vandaele, the president of SBR Multisports (for swim, bike, run) in Midtown Manhattan. This spring, Mr. Vandaele began to promote more actively his two-year-old program that promises customers who fly to New York and spend $2,500 or more on a bike a refund of $200 for lodging or air fare.
 Mr. Vandaele said many of the international customers are couples: ''The wife wants to shop on Fifth Avenue, and the gentleman wants to shop at SBR.'' 
 But how expensive a bike does one really need? Loren Mooney, the executive editor of Bicycling magazine, said that for $2,500 to $3,500, most road cyclists and triathletes can get an exceptional road or triathlon bike without traveling far. T. J. Murphy, the editor of Triathlete magazine, said the low end for a good triathlon bike without a custom fit, for a beginner or an experienced rider, is about $2,000. Ms. Mooney cautions against a keep-up-with-the-Joneses mentality that can spur five-figure splurges. ''What you get for $15,000 is something ultralightweight, with pro-level performance,'' she said. ''But the reality is that very few people have the cycling ability to take advantage of all that.''
 Even some devotees admit that what they treasure most about their trophy items may be merely superficial. Rafael Aguilar, a 38-year-old lawyer and triathlete from Miami, conceded that a perk of traveling to Mr. Kautz's shop in California and spending several thousand dollars was being able to show off the bike at races.
 ''There's always a certain amount of bling, as most triathletes are relatively affluent professionals who aren't hesitant to spend their money on nice equipment,'' Mr. Aguilar said. ''But a bicycle is a bicycle. At the end of the day, it's a question of who crosses the finish line first.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I'm kind of a fanatic,'' said Dr. Jason Newland, who flew from Kansas City, Mo., to Waitsfield, Vt., for his custom-fit Serotta Legend Ti. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE KAUP FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); CYCLING (90%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (89%); ATHLETES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); OLYMPICS (76%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (74%) MISSOURI, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



6 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Even Less Help in Hard Times

 BODY:
The troubled economy could soon create a major fiscal crisis for the state-run Medicaid and children's health programs that would only be exacerbated by the Bush administration's efforts to cut these programs back. Congress must provide temporary aid to the most beleaguered states and find a permanent way to protect Medicaid and children's health programs from wrenching cuts every time a recession hits. 
 The problem was laid bare in a report this week from the Urban Institute, funded by the Kaiser Family Foundation. Researchers estimated that each percentage-point rise in the unemployment rate would increase Medicaid and children's health enrollments by one million people as more families fall into poverty. And it was estimated that it would drive another 1.1 million people into the ranks of the uninsured as they lose their employer-sponsored coverage. 
 This will happen at a time when state governments are ill prepared to cope because their tax revenues are plunging during the economic downturn. By one count, 27 states and the District of Columbia are forecasting some $40 billion in budget deficits for the coming year.
 Many states will have little choice but to shrink their Medicaid and children's health programs, along with other state services, to meet legal requirements that their budgets be balanced. At least 13 states have already proposed such cuts or begun to implement them.
 A recent poll by the Kaiser foundation found that nearly 3 in 10 respondents already have a serious problem paying for health care or health insurance. Nearly a quarter have switched or stuck with a job primarily because of health benefits, and a significant number said that they or someone in their family had decided to marry in the past year mainly to gain coverage for a spouse. 
 In the last downturn, earlier in this decade, the federal government provided some $20 billion in fiscal relief to the states, including $10 billion in increased matching funds for Medicaid. But this time, the Bush administration has imposed new rules that would impede expansion of the children's health program and new regulations that would reduce federal funding for Medicaid by anywhere from $14 billion (the administration's estimate) to $50 billion (the states' estimate) over the next five years.
 This is a terrible time to reduce funding for safety-net programs. Congress needs to place a moratorium on the Medicaid regulations by a veto-proof margin and find a way to overturn the children's health rules. As a permanent remedy, Congress should restructure Medicaid and children's health programs so that federal financing increases during bad economic times -- when people most need their government's help. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); RECESSION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



7 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; AT HOME WITH ALEXANDRA FULLER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: The Dark Side of Guzzling Energy

BYLINE: By JIM ROBBINS

DATELINE: Pinedale, Wyo. 

 BODY:
 ALEXANDRA FULLER has two homes that are 60 miles -- and a world -- apart.
 One is in Wilson, Wyo., a village just outside the mountain resort town of Jackson. It is tucked into a steep hillside, a stone's throw from the steep two-lane highway that climbs over the rugged Teton Mountains to Idaho. 
 It is here that Ms. Fuller has what she calls the good life, Rocky Mountain style. After she serves a dinner of tender Montana lamb and roasted potato, she settles into a sofa in front of a roaring fire in her 2,500-square-foot home, where she strokes her dogs; Tanq, a Labrador, and Bertie and Dilly, two corgis. Two of her three children, Sarah, 14, and Cecily, 2, are at home; Fuller, 11, is at a sleepover. In their free time the family can go out cross-country skiing or river rafting. 
 Ms. Fuller, 39, whom everyone calls Bo, is a writer best known for her first book, ''Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight: An African Childhood'' (Random House, 2003), a painful memoir of growing up in Rhodesia during the civil war. Whenever she finds it tough to write, Ms. Fuller gets on her Arabian horse, Sunday, and heads into the pine-draped mountains with her dogs. 
 ''There's something soothing about hearing a horse whinny and swish her tail,'' she said. ''You leave on a ride with all the noise in your head and at the end things have quieted down and I have the best way and the most poetic way to write the passage.''
 But there is a nearby world that obsesses her, a world she finds unsettling. She and her husband, Charlie Ross, a real-estate broker, recently built a one-room log cabin in Sublette County, more rural and far less rarefied. It offers an expansive, soul-stirring view of the extraordinary Wind River Range and the high plains -- but at the same time a window into what she considers Wyoming's destruction by the development of gas and oil fields. 
 ''I fell in love with Wyoming because it reminded me of Africa,'' she said. ''It's beautiful, but a harsh environment and it's tough to make a living.'' 
 The vast differences between her two homes and the land they occupy inspired her newest book, ''The Legend of Colton H. Bryant,'' due to be released next week by Penguin Press. The book is based on the true story of one young man's life and death working as a roughneck in the oil fields in Sublette County, one of the most active areas for oil and gas exploration and drilling in the country. The book grew out of an article she wrote for the New Yorker in 2007 called ''Boomtown Blues.'' 
 The book is part of her effort to bridge the gulf between her homes in two very different parts of the state. She feels that like many Americans, the people in Teton County -- which includes Jackson -- do not understand what it takes to feed the country's seemingly insatiable demand for energy. 
 ''Most people don't know what goes on in an oil field,'' she said. ''It's a war landscape. Those boys are out there 24 hours, even when it's 50 below and the wind is blowing sideways.'' 
 After a day in and around Jackson, with its mega-mansions built by the super wealthy, including some from the energy industry such as Vice President Dick Cheney, Ms. Fuller offered a tour of the other Wyoming, the grit and beauty and working-class economy of Sublette County. ''We'll take a look at the sausage factory,'' she said as she packed her skis for the trip. 
 On a brilliantly sunny day, on a sweeping landscape of glittering, snow-covered plains and mountains, we parked the car along the road and headed out on a three-mile cross-country schuss on snow so deep it buried the fence posts. The route was fairly flat until the end, when it ascended through pristine, trackless snow in a grove of lodgepole pine and aspen that camouflaged her cabin. 
 Ms. Fuller opened the cabin for the first time in weeks. When the road is open she spends weeks at a time at the cabin, but in winter, she uses it less because access is difficult. Ms. Fuller said she wrote much of the book there on a laptop in her bed, covers pulled up, a box of tissues on the table next to her. ''I cried a lot as I wrote,'' she explained. 
 After a lunch of fruit and bread at small table in the main room that is living room, dining room and kitchen, Ms. Fuller put on her skis and headed out. She paused in front of her home at the crest of the hill and looked out over the prairie that rises up to the mountains known as the Winds. She said that the view was bound to change. 
 ''It's all been leased,'' she said. ''It's all slated for oil and gas development.''
 Later we drove past the tiny town of Pinedale, and across public land, where towering steel oil derricks flying American flags slice into the blue sky and a natural landscape once full of antelope, jackrabbits and sagebrush is now a vast industrial landscape. White pickup trucks raise clouds of dust and fierce winds blow tumbleweeds across prairie scraped to bare dirt by bulldozers. 
 Biologists say that this development could destroy the antelope migration from outside Pinedale to Yellowstone National Park, hundreds of miles north, now the longest overland mammal migration in the Lower 48. 
 On some days this formerly pristine part of Wyoming has air pollution levels that exceed federal standards for human health, and the clear Western sky is sometimes marred by a brown cloud.
 Wyoming is under assault here, Ms. Fuller said, standing on a road buffeted by the infamous high plains wind. She believes people are being used by the energy industry. In the past several years, dozens of workers have died on the rigs around the West. 
 ''Throwing warm beating hearts at a failed energy policy is a tragedy, whether it's the war or the oil fields,'' Ms. Fuller said. ''The jobs are a good thing. But going after it so frantically and doing so much damage is wrong.'' 
 The cruel and beautiful landscape here reminds her of her childhood. She was born into white Rhodesia and came of age during the war for independence by the black majority, who renamed it Zimbabwe. By the age of 6, she said, she had learned how to use an Uzi submachine gun and knew the basics of first aid. She suffered the ordeal of her baby sister drowning, an older brother who died of meningitis and another who died in infancy; she says the cause of death was being born in Africa.
 Now she considers herself a messenger who must bear witness to what she sees as the war on the land, with its natural and human casualties. 
 ''I travel between these worlds. I couldn't leave the oil field behind when I came home to Teton County,'' she said. It has been hard, Ms. Fuller allows, to tell her friends about the other Wyoming. ''I can't talk about my childhood, I can't talk about the war, and its hard to talk about what's going on in the oil field. That's why I wrote the book.'' 
 Kaylee Bryant, the mother of Colton, the book's subject, is pleased with Ms. Fuller's take on Wyoming and her family. ''She hit it pretty doggone close,'' said Ms. Bryant, who works in a school cafeteria in Evanston. Her husband and surviving son are still roughnecks. ''She even hit Colton's personality close, for never having met him.''
 ''Rather than write in the rhetoric of conflict, she's chosen to tell a story of one young man,'' said Terry Tempest Williams, a neighbor of Ms. Fuller in Wilson, who has long written about the West. ''That's much more powerful because it touches our humanity.''
 It is critical, Ms. Fuller said, that people know who to blame. ''Teton County has ahuge carbon footprint with heated driveways, roofs and huge houses heated all winter long with no one in them,'' she said. ''I don't see this as something the roughnecks or the oil companies or the administration alone is doing. It's something we're all doing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WARMTH: ''I fell in love with Wyoming because it reminded me of Africa,'' the writer Alexandra Fuller says. ''It's beautiful, but a harsh environment.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID J. SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F1)
 THE TWO WYOMINGS: Skiing near her cabin, Alexandra Fuller, left, revels in the unspoiled Wyoming landscape. But she worries about the impact of the development of oil fields and gas mines, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID J. SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); DOGS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (84%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESORTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); SKIING (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); HORSES (70%); BOATING & RAFTING (68%); OIL EXPLORATION (65%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (93%); IDAHO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



8 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Council Approves Rezoning of 125th Street, Over Loud Protests of Some Spectators

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
The boos and cries of ''sellout'' and ''liar'' came so loudly and persistently that the entire audience was removed. But in the end, the City Council overwhelmingly approved a plan on Wednesday to rezone 125th Street in Harlem.
 The Council approval augurs the most significant change to the avenue in nearly half a century, one that supporters say will bring new businesses and housing, and that opponents say will forever alter Harlem's character for the worse by ushering in a new wave of gentrification. 
 ''When I came into office, we promised to stimulate economic growth and strengthen neighborhoods across the city, and our plan for the area around Harlem's famed 125th Street is the latest example of how were doing it,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in a statement. ''Not only does the plan lay the foundation for economic growth on Harlem's Main Street, but also it preserves its noted brownstones and reinforces its arts and culture heritage.''
 The 47-to-2 vote came after months of political and legal squabbling that has divided Harlem among those who believe the rezoning will lead to an improvement in the quality of stores and the availability of services in the neighborhood, and those who believe the changes will turn 125th Street into a generic Manhattan thoroughfare lined with skyscrapers, chain stores and a new set of wealthy residents.
 On Wednesday, members of those two groups sat side by side in the City Council chambers, some clapping politely in support of the plan, the others angrily denouncing Harlem's three Council representatives -- Inez E. Dickens, Robert Jackson and Melissa Mark-Viverito -- who all supported the rezoning. 
 After a series of disruptions, in which audience members shouted ''sellout'' and ''liar'' and booed loudly as Ms. Dickens tried to explain why the rezoning was an important step forward for Harlem, the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, and the city's public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, asked that the chamber's balcony, where the audience was sitting, be cleared of spectators by police officers. 
 But Councilman Charles Barron brokered an agreement with the officers and City Council security, and only a few of the 100 spectators were ejected.
 Once the meeting was back in session, however, the shouting and catcalls resumed during remarks by Mr. Jackson. After Ms. Quinn and Ms. Gotbaum, who was presiding, asked again for the room to be cleared, police officers and City Council security escorted everyone outside the building. As they left, they sang, ''We Shall Overcome.''
 The meeting was interrupted for about 30 minutes, and the vote was eventually held in the Council chambers with only council members, council staff members, law enforcement personnel and reporters present. Council and administration officials said they could not recall another meeting in which the chambers were cleared of spectators.
 Councilwoman Helen Diane Foster, who voted for the rezoning, said she was concerned that the audience was treated harshly because its members were predominantly black and Latino.
 ''We had more officers in here than we've had in the chambers ever before,'' she said. ''I hope we did it across the board and not based on color.''
 Ms. Dickens said that her recent discussions with the Bloomberg administration had vastly improved the proposal, and she said the rezoning was supported by a broad cross-section of Harlem. ''I need no one to document my commitment to my community,'' she said. ''I was born in Harlem.''
 The vote itself had become a formality after Ms. Dickens, Mr. Jackson and Ms. Mark-Viverito agreed to the rezoning last month in exchange for pledges from the Bloomberg administration that included additional units of moderately priced housing, government loans for 71 businesses that may be displaced, and about $5.8 million in improvements for Marcus Garvey Park. 
 Including the 125th Street plan, the Bloomberg administration has now rezoned more than 6,000 blocks since 2002 as part of its effort to revamp the city's zoning laws, many of which had not changed since 1961.
 City officials said none of the other plans had been as hotly contested as the rezoning of 125th Street, which is far more modest in size than previous rezonings, but which threatens to transform what has long been the symbolic center of African-American cultural life.
 The plan calls for 24 blocks of Harlem to be rezoned, stretching from Broadway east to Second Avenue, and from 124th to 126th Street. The Bloomberg administration said its intent was to remake 125th Street, now dominated by four- and five-story buildings with small businesses on the first floors, into a regional business hub with 19-story office towers and more than 2,000 new market-rate condominiums. The plan includes incentives for arts- and entertainment-related businesses. 
 The Bloomberg administration and Ms. Dickens have said that an agreement they negotiated reserves 46 percent, or 1,758, of the 3,858 total new residential units that would be permitted to be built in the rezoned area as moderately priced housing.
 But according to the formal agreement, signed on April 15 by Deputy Mayor Robert C. Lieber, only about 5 percent of the housing -- or about 200 units -- would be affordable for families earning $30,750 or less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ZONING (90%); APPROVALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (84%); MAYORS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); RETAILERS (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



9 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Take Course, Start Business

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
The college campus, it turns out, can be an ideal incubator for hatching small businesses.
 Nanina's Gourmet Sauce, a pasta sauce company based in Belleville, N.J., was started, for instance, in 2005 by students taking an entrepreneurship course at Monmouth University in West Long Branch, N.J. Nanina's products are now sold in nearly 400 supermarkets and gourmet shops in New Jersey and Manhattan, and the company's director of operations is 23-year-old Nick Massari, a student in that class. 
 The course at Monmouth is one of thousands of similar offerings on campuses across the United States. Undergraduate courses in how to start and run a small business are becoming as ubiquitous as Economics 101. Gone is the conventional wisdom that running a small business cannot be learned by sitting in a classroom. 
 According to the Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City, Mo., more than 2,000 colleges and universities now offer at least a class and often an entire course of study in entrepreneurship. That is up from 253 institutions offering such courses in 1985. More than 200,000 students are enrolled in such courses, compared with 16,000 in 1985. 
 The Monmouth course, started in 2005 and taught by John Buzza, a successful food industry entrepreneur who decided to devote his energy to teaching, went well beyond textbooks and lectures. 
 That first year, Professor Buzza brought along with him a real-world challenge. A chef he had worked with at Nanina's in the Park, an Italian restaurant and catering company in Belleville, had created a tomato pasta sauce that customers were always asking for, but he had neither the time nor the skills to turn the idea into a business. Instead, Professor Buzza gave his class the assignment of starting a pasta sauce company. 
 ''We had no idea how to begin,'' Mr. Massari said. ''But instead of getting lectured on how to do it, we went out and did it.'' The class of 35 students was split into five operational teams: sales and marketing, finance, information technology, research and development, and production. They spent significant time researching the market, creating a business plan, revising the plans and carrying out a blueprint for getting the pasta sauce on supermarket shelves. The next semester, they took a course in small-business management where they learned to run the nascent company as a business.
 The company began shipping its sauce in January 2006, and Mr. Massari, a stellar college infielder who had signed a baseball contract with an independent ball club when he graduated, was asked by the owner of Nanina's to take over the embryonic business. Giving up his long-shot baseball dreams, Mr. Massari jumped at the opportunity. ''I had always thought about owning my own business,'' he said. 
 Starting with one ShopRite supermarket near the restaurant, the sauce is now sold in four major supermarket chains in the region, including Pathmark and Whole Foods. Mr. Massari predicted that sales would hit $1 million this year and profitability would not be far off. 
 Professor Buzza, who is also director of Monmouth University's Center for Entrepreneurship, said his philosophy is that he is as much a coach as teacher and that his course must have business relevance. ''We take the theory and put it into practice,'' he said. ''Education is the foundation, but application is the affirmation.'' 
 The traditional career path of long-term employment for a single corporate giant has become less appealing to a new generation of graduates, as starting and running a small business has become more desirable. In fact, small business is generating about 75 percent of all new jobs in this country, according to a report in 2006 from the Small Business Administration.
 ''What you have today are people who have to think about their careers in a way you didn't before,'' said Tom Tremblay, president and chief executive of the Guardair Corporation, a small manufacturer in Chicopee, Mass. ''So it's essential that people learn how to manage and run and participate in small companies. Small business can be taught, and it needs to be taught.''
 Marjorie Smelstor, the Kauffman Foundation's vice president for the Kauffman Campuses Initiative and Higher Education Program, agreed that small business can be taught. The Kauffman Foundation is spending $50 million to finance such programs at 19 universities, including Arizona State, Oberlin, the University of Wisconsin and the University of Rochester. 
 ''The bigger question is, How is it taught?'' Ms. Smelstor said. ''If it is taught purely in a traditional classroom with lectures and talking heads with an emphasis on a theoretical approach, then no, it won't be taught or learned.'' If however, there is a formal connection between classroom learning and hands-on extracurricular activity like actually starting a business, then the concept thrives, she said. 
 Many colleges have turned to active or retired business owners rather than academics to teach the courses. At C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston, for example, Daniel Steppe, a 66-year-old multimillionaire, is director of the Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship. Mr. Steppe spent 37 years in business, started five successful companies from scratch and, after selling his last start-up in 2001, decided to forgo golf for academia. 
 ''Our classes are taught by a group of men and women who spent 20 to 30 years in the entrepreneurial world,'' Mr. Steppe said. ''We have some theory but our focus is on the practical. We don't go through all the physics and formulas on how the bicycle works. We just get on and ride it.'' 
 Increasingly, the schools are seeking better frameworks and processes to ensure that the pedagogy is replicable and measurable. And some, like Ms. Smelstor of the Kauffman Foundation, emphasize the continued importance of a strong liberal arts education as a foundation for successful programs. ''We think entrepreneurship in business schools is often too narrowly focused,'' she said. 
 But at colleges with a lengthy commitment to such courses, it is clear that the campus environment plays a significant role. At Babson College in Wellesley, Mass., for example, entrepreneurship is part of the school's identity. Always listed among the top business schools for entrepreneurship studies, Babson was a pioneer in the academic discipline as far back as the late 1970s. 
 Most colleges do not offer entrepreneurship courses until the junior or senior year. But at Babson, incoming freshmen take a yearlong course in which they are required to start and run a small business. Each class of 25 to 30 students is given $3,000 in seed money and is required to create a company to sell a real product that will exist for the school year. According to Professor Andrew Zacharakis, the students have never had a company fail to make back its initial financing. Most often, the companies make a profit, which is donated to charity. 
 ''Our professors do a really good job of helping kids become active learners,'' Professor Zacharakis said. ''In high school, they sit back and listen to the teacher. Here, the professor is more of a coach. You are given a framework to think about how it works and you are expected to apply that.'' 
 On Babson's leafy suburban campus, budding upperclassmen entrepreneurs are the superstars, says Philip Tepfer, a 22-year-old senior who already has started his own apparel business, Sail (Proud), which sells clothes for sailing. 
 ''Entrepreneurship is deep within the culture here,'' Mr. Tepfer said. ''They are always pushing us to go out and do something on our own.'' Mr. Tepfer said his nascent business will reach $40,000 in sales in its first year and he projects more than $300,000 by Year 2. ''Yes, there's risk,'' he said. ''But it's better than working at the campus coffee shop.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nick Massari helped start a food business as part of an entrepreneurship class project at Monmouth University in New Jersey in 2005, and now has his pasta sauce in nearly 400 stores
 Customers kept asking to buy pasta sauce at Nanina's in Belleville, N.J., so a college professor assigned students to market it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SYLWIA KAPUSCINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BASEBALL (87%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



10 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Latinos In U.S. Sending Money Home

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Jonathan Higuera contributed reporting from Phoenix, and Elisabeth Malkin from Mexico.

 BODY:
In a sign that the economic downturn is hitting hard among Latino immigrants, more than three million of them stopped sending money to families in their home countries during the last two years, the Inter-American Development Bank said on Wednesday. 
 Growing numbers of Latino immigrants are also considering giving up their foothold in the United States and returning home in response to a slump in low-wage jobs and the crackdown on illegal immigration, the bank reported in a survey of 5,000 immigrants from Latin America. 
 The survey found that only half of the 18.9 million Latino immigrants in this country now send money regularly to relatives in their home countries, compared with 73 percent two years ago. 
 ''The major dynamic that is holding them back from sending money is fear,'' said Sergio Bendixen, a Miami-based pollster who conducted the survey. ''They don't know whether they won't be able to get a job anymore.''
 With fewer people sending money home, money transfers to some Latin American countries have started to decline, reversing five years of often spectacular growth. In the first quarter of this year, transfers to Mexico dropped 2.9 percent from the first quarter of 2007, Mexico's central bank reported on Wednesday, the first significant decline since Mexico began tracking the transfers in 1995. 
 For Latin America as a whole, the amount of the money transfers, which are known as remittances, remained virtually flat over the last two years, the development bank reported. It estimated total remittances to the region at $45.9 billion in 2008, an increase of $500 million over 2006. 
 That contrasts with the period from 2001 to 2006, when the amount of remittances to the region tripled, to $45 billion from $15 billion, according to figures from the development bank, a multilateral organization based in Washington that finances development projects in Latin America. Total remittances did not drop more sharply in the last two years because those immigrants who continued to send money sent larger amounts more frequently, the bank's survey found. 
 ''The longstanding pattern of increasing numbers of Latin American immigrants sending increasing amounts of money back home has stopped,'' said Donald F. Terry, the general manager of the Multilateral Investment Fund at the development bank and the official in charge of the survey. The survey was conducted in Spanish from Feb. 9 to 23, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 1 percentage point.
 With lower income and less job security, Latino immigrants said they were spending or saving their money here rather than sending it to support children, spouses and parents at home.
 Latino immigrants said life had become more difficult for them here. Of those interviewed, 81 percent said it is harder to find a good-paying job. Almost 40 percent said they were earning less this year than the previous year. The largest group of immigrants in the survey -- 18 percent -- worked in construction, which has been especially hard hit in the slowdown. 
 As a result of the difficulties, among immigrants who had been here less than five years, 49 percent said they were thinking of returning home, while 41 percent said they planned to remain in the United States. Over all, slightly under one-third of the immigrants said they were thinking of leaving this country.
 In 2001, the last time a similar survey asked a comparable question, about 20 percent of Latino immigrants said they were thinking of going home, said Mr. Bendixen, who conducted that survey as well.
 However, Mr. Bendixen said that immigrant workers who participated in focus groups as part of the survey said they were not ready to leave the United States quite yet. Before taking the drastic step of moving back home, immigrants said they were taking jobs at lower wages or sometimes working two jobs to try to maintain their income, he said. 
 ''These are resourceful people who will do whatever job is available,'' Mr. Bendixen said.
 The economic pressure appears to have fallen equally on illegal immigrants and those authorized to be in the United States. Of the immigrants interviewed in the survey, 47 percent said they did not have legal status. The others were legal immigrants and American citizens. 
 A large majority of those surveyed -- legal and illegal -- said they experienced increasing hostility as a result of efforts to curb illegal immigration and punish employers who hire unauthorized immigrant workers. In the survey, 61 percent of Latinos who were American citizens and 66 percent of those who were legal immigrants said discrimination had become a major problem for them.
 In an interview in Phoenix on Wednesday, Yolanda, a 45-year-old illegal immigrant from Mexico who did not participate in the survey, said that she had started to think of going home, after 13 years in the United States. Before November, she was sending at least $400 a month to Mexico City to support her three children. This year she can manage only $300 every two months, she said. 
 Yolanda, who asked that her last name not be published because of her immigration status, said her trouble stemmed from the crackdown on hiring of illegal immigrants, fewer jobs and higher prices. 
 ''We can't keep up with expenses and also send money,'' she said in Spanish. ''If you can't even eat, what's the point? This is the worst it's been, because we've never not had enough for food and our bills.'' 
 Mexico, which received $24.7 billion in remittances last year, will be hardest hit by the decrease. The majority of the families of an estimated 3.2 million immigrants who will no longer receive transfers are in Mexico, Mr. Terry, the bank official, said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Decline in Money Transfers: A survey of Latin American immigrants shows that fewer people are sending money to their home countries than in previous years. After five years of sustained growth, the total amount of remittances remained flat from 2006 to this year.
 Though the number of Latino immigrants sending money home declined, those who continued to send money sent more of it more frequently. (Source: Survey by the Inter-American Development Bank of 5,000 Latin American immigrant adults conducted Feb. 9-23, in Spanish. Margin of sampling error is $(1$)1 point.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); FAMILY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%)

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (93%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) LATIN AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



11 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Producers' Group Pessimistic On Labor Talks With Actors

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A bargaining group for Hollywood's largest movie and television companies on Wednesday told its members, in effect, not to expect a breakthrough in stalled talks with the Screen Actors Guild before their scheduled end on Friday. 
 ''Although both parties have spent considerable time in the negotiating room, we are not yet close to an agreement,'' said the message, posted by the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers on its Web site.
 The statement and an accompanying critique of positions taken by the guild set the stage for a new and more difficult phase in the showdown between actors and producers over a contract to replace the current deal, which expires June 30. 
 A walkout by the actors could easily wreak more economic havoc than the recent 100-day strike by Hollywood writers. Without actors, nearly all television and movie production (save reality shows) would instantly grind to a halt, whereas during the writers' strike, TV shows and movies were able to work for weeks with scripts already in hand.
 As the producers prepared to open talks on Monday with another actors' union, the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, it appeared increasingly likely that any deal with the Screen Actors Guild would remain weeks away and might be forged only under the pressure of an expiring deadline.
 In talks over the last three weeks, the producers association and the actors guild have remained at odds over sharply conflicting approaches to compensation for new media and over a guild demand to double residual payments from DVDs. The DVD concession is something the Writers Guild of America West and the Writers Guild of America East were unable to win.
 A spokeswoman for the guild did not respond to queries about the company message.
 Alan Rosenberg, president of the 120,000-member guild, and Doug Allen, its national executive director, have repeatedly said that actors intend to achieve contract gains that reach beyond those achieved by the writers guilds and by the Directors Guild of America. Company representatives have insisted just as adamantly that they do not intend to expand substantially on the gains recently won by directors and writers. 
 In the event of a strike, movie companies would be hit more quickly than television producers, reversing the situation in the writers' strike, which began last November. This time around, many television productions would already be shut for a summer hiatus, but movie productions, normally in full swing through the summer, would stop unless covered by an independent agreement with the guild.
 Some major productions have been scheduled to shoot even after June 30, despite the possibility of a new strike. One is a fourth ''Terminator'' film, an independent movie directed by Joseph McGinty Nichol, who is known as McG, and starring Christian Bale. It is set to begin shooting in New Mexico next week. 
 The movie is not currently covered by an independent agreement with the guild, according to a person who was briefed on the production but spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid conflict with the filmmakers. Through a spokesman, producers of the movie declined to comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (94%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); FILM (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); WRITERS (88%); STRIKES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); WEB SITES (56%)

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (84%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



12 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: States Limit Costly Sites For Cancer Radiation

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Seeking to rein in medical costs, a commission in Michigan on Wednesday moved to prevent hospitals in the state from each spending $100 million or more to provide a new form of radiation treatment for cancer. 
 The commission, which sets standards for major hospital construction, said it would allow only one center to be built in the state for the treatment, which is known as proton beam therapy. It ordered the state's largest hospitals -- four of which had already proposed their own centers -- to collaborate on that one project. 
 ''The costs of multiple centers, each having the most expensive medical equipment yet developed, would be tremendous,'' the state's Certificate of Need Commission said. 
 Proton therapy, which uses huge nuclear particle accelerators encased in thick concrete walls, can deliver radiation more precisely than the X-rays now generally used to treat cancer. That can reduce the side effects from stray radiation and might improve the cure rate. 
 But critics say that the technique's advantage over X-rays has not been proved, except in certain rare tumors, and that proton therapy might not be worth the substantial extra cost. They say hospitals are engaged in a wasteful ''arms race'' for the prestige and profits that come from having a proton center. 
 There are now five proton centers in the United States, most built in the last few years, and at least a dozen more have been announced. 
 But there are signs of resistance to such expansion. The Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board said in early April that it would probably reject one of two proton centers being planned within miles of each other in the suburbs of Chicago. 
 The Michigan decision endangers a plan by Beaumont Hospitals, one of the largest health care systems in the state, to build its own $159 million proton therapy center on its campus in Royal Oak, outside Detroit. It had agreed to work with ProCure Treatment Centers, a company that specializes in building proton centers and arranging their financing. 
 Beaumont's announcement in March led other hospitals, perhaps in fear of being left behind, to submit their own proposals. That led to proposals for a collaboration. 
 ''It was getting a little frenetic,'' said Nancy M. Schlichting, the chief executive of the Henry Ford Health System, who conceded that her hospital had been caught off guard by the Beaumont proposal. 
 She said that collaboration made sense and that her hospital would join. ''When you're spending this kind of money,'' she said, ''it seems to me we should take the appropriate amount of time and work together to create the best outcome.'' 
 But executives at Beaumont and ProCure said they suspected the collaboration proposal was really an attempt by rival hospitals to slow down their project or kill it. They said a collaboration of five or more hospitals, as contemplated by the state, would be unworkable. 
 ''If they want speed and certainty, it's clear they need to go forward with ProCure and our hospital partner, Beaumont,'' said Hadley Ford, the chief executive of ProCure. 
 Dr. Frank A. Vicini, the chief of oncology at Beaumont, said his medical center would push ahead in case the collaboration collapsed. The governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, can veto the commission's ruling, but people on both sides said they expected her to wait to see how much progress the collaboration made. Beaumont and ProCure said they were offering minority stakes to other hospitals. 
 The Michigan commission, acknowledging that a collaborative project could bog down, said it might change its decision if progress were not made. It said that at least five hospitals would have to agree to participate in the collaboration and contribute a collective $13 million by June 5. They would have to have a business plan ready by Sept. 6. 
 The collaboration proposal was supported by some big employers and labor unions in the state, which is ailing economically. 
 ''We need to constrain health care costs,'' said Larry Horwitz, president of the Economic Alliance for Michigan, a coalition of unions and employers, including Detroit's major automakers. ''We certainly don't need a mammoth escalation in health care costs, especially if it's duplicative spending in an area that has not been medically validated.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (92%); HOSPITALS (91%); ONCOLOGY (90%); RADIOLOGY (90%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (78%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); PHYSICS (72%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: HENRY FORD HEALTH SYSTEM (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



13 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: Status: Looking for Work on Facebook

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
AS anyone who has ever received a virtual Jagerbomb or fought off intergalactic cyber chickens knows, social-networking sites are designed to be entertaining. If there wasn't so much fun to be had, there wouldn't be so many articles warning that what you post on your profile -- i.e., photos of you in a beer helmet and a tequila bandolier -- could one day cost you a job. 
 Yet sites like Facebook, Friendster and MySpace are evolving beyond their reputations as procrastinators' Xanadus. 
 With American consumer confidence at a 26-year low and one in seven workers telling the Pew Research Center that they fear they will be laid off, social-networking sites are becoming, for some users, platforms from which to network for job leads, to forge professional contacts or even to announce to friends that you are out of work. 
 Landing a job through a social network not designed for that purpose appears to be a rarity. But savvy users say the sites can be effective tools for promoting one's job skills and all-around business networking. Even human resource professionals are encouraging people to log on.
 In a survey by the National Association of Colleges and Employers published in March, employers indicated that whereas in the past they used social-networking sites ''to check profiles of potential hires,'' said Marilyn Mackes, the group's executive director, today ''more than half will use the sites to network with potential candidates.''
 CareerBuilder.com, the job search site, officially introduced a Facebook application last month that enables companies to find candidates. It joins other job-oriented Facebook applications, including one by Jobster that has more than 26,000 members. 
 Christine Pon Chin, a real estate agent with Bellmarc Realty in Manhattan, uses Facebook for both social and professional networking. ''It's helping me get additional buyers and sellers for the future,'' said Ms. Chin, who began posting some of her exclusive property listings on Facebook a couple of months ago, when business slowed. 
 Since then she has corresponded with potential buyers. ''On Facebook I'm getting in touch with people I haven't seen in years and who don't necessarily know what I do -- so it puts the word out,'' she said. 
 Steve Biegel, the creative director of Scarlet Heifer, a small Manhattan advertising agency, also uses his Facebook profile for professional ends. ''You can share your entire portfolio, which is a nice way to network,'' he said. 
 ''My partner and I are constantly on these sites mingling with prospective clients or people we can hire for our company,'' he added. ''It's like pollination. You just go from flower to flower.''
 Sonia Meertins, 32, who relocated to Los Angeles when her husband accepted a job, went virtual with her own job hunt about six weeks ago. A recruiter suggested she create profiles on Facebook and LinkedIn (designed expressly for business networking). 
 But Ms. Meertins, who is looking for work in sales and marketing, has been taken aback by the strangers and ghosts of classmates past who have ''friended'' her on Facebook. ''You have absolutely no idea why they want to be connected to you,'' she said, adding that LinkedIn feels more appropriate for job hunting. Still, she said: ''Every resource that's available, you try to use it. You see what washes out.''
 Even recent college graduates who have had Facebook profiles for years are refining them into business tools. Take Melissa Gilmore, Shanna Allen and Shani Alston, research assistants at the Center for Family Planning Research at Magee-Womens Hospital in Pittsburgh, whose task is to recruit women for a birth control study. About a month ago, the researchers, all 23, created a Facebook group for the center and took the creative step of linking to it on their own personal Facebook profiles to enlist friends for the study.
 Ms. Gilmore, a graduate of Duke University with more than 1,000 Facebook friends, said she hopes eventually to pay a finder's fee to online friends who refer people to the study.
 Last year, Facebook itself began facilitating professional networking with the introduction of ''pages'' (profiles for businesses or professionals that other Facebook users can become ''fans'' of and receive updates about). 
 ''When somebody joins your group on Facebook, they're much more likely to be receptive to your message,'' said Dustin Luther of Calabasas, Calif., who leads real estate seminars for sales agents and is the founder of the popular Seattle blog RainCityGuide.com. ''My last seminar, a group of us all went out to dinner and we were able to post photos and videos. It kind of keeps everybody engaged in what you're doing in an informal way.'' 
 Yes, plenty of people think social-networking sites are incompatible with the formality of the workplace. Those who professionally network on Facebook and MySpace respond that all business is personal, and that it's the informality of the social sites that makes them useful. 
 Leila Hebden, who said that when she began her career in music management she could not have lived without networking on MySpace, likes the site's casualness and lack of hierarchy. Music industry executives have long seen the advantage of scouring social-networking sites to find new talent, make professional connections and promote their work. One could argue that most other industries are simply coming late to the party. 
 Still, Ms. Hebden said, if she were in serious economic trouble, MySpace would not be a life raft. ''In the face of 'upheaval,' '' she said in an e-mail message, ''I still think 9 out of 10 people would drag their contacts list out of their Outlook work e-mail than turn to their MySpace community.''
 Or not. When Ryan Kuder, 34, of San Jose, Calif., was among the hundreds of people laid off from Yahoo in February, he gave a real-time play-by-play of what it was like by using Twitter, a service that enables subscribers to electronically (and almost instantaneously) broadcast what they're doing. ''The H.R. guy is on his way over to confiscate my laptop,'' Mr. Kuder wrote. To network with other Yahoos, as employees call themselves, he also created a Facebook group: ''I Worked at Yahoo! Until Today.''
 Two days later, he said, he got a call from a Microsoft recruiter.
 Ultimately, Mr. Kuder (who became the subject of news articles for broadcasting the details of his layoff) went into business with a man who had followed his ''tweets,'' as the terse, lickety-split updates are called. The duo have founded, what else, an Internet company. 
 Certainly, social-networking sites have always been used for self-promotion. And since the deluge of attention about the perils of posting too much or wearing too little, many users have become more discrete. More people make their profiles private, or benign enough to be read by colleagues in their employee networks. Even so, some job recruiters are leery of mining the sites for talent.
 Lars Asbjornsen, the vice president of online marketing for Robert Half International, a staffing service, said he saw the most potential for recruiting on a business site like LinkedIn. A survey published this month by Robert Half, based on interviews with 150 senior executives from 1,000 of the country's largest companies, found that while executives were interested in recruiting from social-networking sites, more were interested in doing so through ''professional networking'' sites.
 Chuck Hester, 49, of Raleigh, N.C., has profiles on both Facebook and LinkedIn but it was his connections on LinkedIn (more than 500) that helped him land his current job. After relocating his family to Raleigh from California, Mr. Hester began using LinkedIn to reach out to marketing professionals in the area. Among them was the chief executive of iContact, an e-mail software company where Mr. Hester is now the corporate communications director. 
 When he travels, he sends messages to members of his LinkedIn network suggesting that they meet for a meal or drink. A recent gathering in San Francisco brought together more than 20 members of his network. Every other month, Mr. Hester organizes ''LinkedIn Live'' meetings, where job candidates, recruiters and executives who have connected on the Web site can connect in person. The first meeting, in July, drew about 50 people; the last had about 200. ''We can trace for a fact 20 to 30 people who got jobs from this,'' said Mr. Hester, who is happy in his position but continues to live by a networking credo: ''Dig your well before you're thirsty.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CAREER TOOLS: Ryan Kuder, above, and Chuck Hester, left, used social-networking sites for business purposes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (96%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); RELOCATIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



14 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Firing Adds a Coach To a Crowded Market

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
Avery Johnson was fired by the Dallas Mavericks on Wednesday, and Mike D'Antoni clung loosely to his job in Phoenix -- their fates underscoring that success is no guarantee of security for N.B.A. head coaches.
 The Mavericks fired Johnson a day after his team was eliminated from the playoffs by the New Orleans Hornets. The Suns also lost their first-round series, to the San Antonio Spurs, amid widespread reports that D'Antoni would be replaced. 
 Johnson guided the Mavericks to the finals two years ago and compiled a 194-70 record (.735) in three-plus seasons. D'Antoni has a 232-96 record (.707) with the Suns, who advanced to the Western Conference finals in 2005 and 2006.
 The dismissal of Johnson and the probable departure of D'Antoni could make this one of the most tumultuous years ever for N.B.A. coaches. Four others have been fired: Scott Skiles in Chicago, Larry Krystkowiak in Milwaukee, Isiah Thomas in New York and Sam Vincent in Charlotte. In addition, Pat Riley stepped down in Miami and handed the reins to Eric Spoelstra.
 Several other coaches are reportedly vulnerable, including Detroit's Flip Saunders, Denver's George Karl, Toronto's Sam Mitchell, Atlanta's Mike Woodson, Washington's Eddie Jordan, Memphis's Marc Iavaroni and Seattle's P. J. Carlesimo.
 D'Antoni's fate is not yet clear. Sports Illustrated reported on its Web site Wednesday that he would not return to the Suns and cited unease between D'Antoni and the front office, specifically General Manager Steve Kerr and the owner Robert Sarver. Kerr denied the report was true. The usually garrulous D'Antoni spoke for just 90 seconds before cutting short his news conference.
 Neither Johnson nor D'Antoni figure to be unemployed for long. The Knicks and the Chicago Bulls have vacancies and have been waiting for the big names to hit the market as teams are eliminated from the playoffs.
 Donnie Walsh, the new Knicks president, has been an outspoken fan of D'Antoni's, even before the Suns became a high-octane powerhouse over the last four seasons.
 Sarver may be reluctant to fire D'Antoni with two years and a reported $8.5 million left on his contract. However, the Suns could grant D'Antoni permission to speak with other teams, then request compensation in exchange for letting him leave.
 One widely discussed chain of events has D'Antoni going to Toronto to rejoin Bryan Colangelo, the former Suns general manager, and Mitchell (who has a strong relationship with Walsh) leaving the Raptors to join the Knicks.
 D'Antoni is also considered a strong candidate to replace Johnson in Dallas. Johnson could become a favorite in Chicago.
 If D'Antoni resigns or is fired, it will extend a striking trend. Six of the last nine coach of the year winners have left their teams within three years after winning the award. Four were fired (including Johnson, who won in 2006) and two resigned. If Mitchell (the 2007 winner) and D'Antoni (2005) are let go, it would bring the total to 8 of 9.
 The Mavericks and the Suns had championship aspirations, and each team raised expectations by acquiring a high-priced star at midseason, Shaquille O'Neal in Phoenix and Jason Kidd in Dallas.
 Steve Nash, the point guard who helped D'Antoni transform the Suns, said he told Kerr that he wanted D'Antoni back. Kerr said Nash's opinion carried ''a ton of weight.'' O'Neal also voiced strong support. But it seemed telling that Amare Stoudemire, the Suns' star forward, referred to D'Antoni in the past tense, saying, ''Coach Mike was a pretty good coach,'' and ''I had fun playing under Coach D'Antoni.''
 Told of Stoudemire's remarks, Kerr said, ''I wouldn't read anything into that.'' Earlier, Kerr told The Arizona Republic that ''there's no truth to'' the Sports Illustrated report. He told the newspaper: ''I asked Mike when the story came out and he denied it. Mike's our coach and has done a great job for four years.'' 
 But when asked if he wished to remain with the Suns, D'Antoni waved off the question.
 ''I hate to be abrupt,'' he said. ''I would like to go on, but you know I'll keep talking and kill myself.''
 The speed of Johnson's rise and fall was astounding. His winning percentage is the best in franchise history and included a franchise-record 67-15 season in 2006-7. But he was doomed by a series of postseason disappointments, including last season's first-round loss to the eighth-seeded Golden State Warriors. Since taking a 2-0 lead in the 2006 finals (which they lost to the Miami Heat), the Mavericks are 3-12 in the playoffs, including 0-9 on the road. Johnson's playoff record is 23-24.
 This season, the Mavericks struggled to make the playoffs in the competitive Western Conference. They won 51 games to finish seventh in the West, but were overmatched by the younger, tougher Hornets.
 In an interview on ESPN radio in Dallas, Johnson said his team ''significantly overachieved'' when it won 67 games, and he indicated that expectations were unreasonable this season.
 ''We weren't as good,'' he said. ''We weren't that good of a basketball team to win a championship. But we made the best of it.''
 Still, Johnson did not contest the decision to let him go, saying: ''This was something that needed to happen. It happened. We're all going to go our separate ways.''
 Karen Crouse contributed reporting from Phoenix. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Avery Johnson led the Mavericks to the N.B.A. finals in 2006, but he had a 23-24 record in the playoffs over all. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); WEB SITES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (92%); PHOENIX SUNS (83%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (57%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (57%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%); DENVER NUGGETS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (70%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (73%); WISCONSIN, USA (70%); ONTARIO, CANADA (69%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



15 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Rally Fades to Small Loss, Despite the Fed's Rate Cut

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street gave up sharp gains and closed lower on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve Board cut interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point but left investors guessing about its next move. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, which momentarily edged above 13,000 for the first time since early January, ended the session with a modest loss.
 ''The market had wanted to hear tougher talk on inflation, and some sort of talk that the easing has been adequate for a while, for the foreseeable future,'' said Scott Wren, equity strategist for Wachovia Securities. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 11.81, or 0.09 percent, to 12,820.13, after trading up 178 points shortly after the Fed's announcement.
 Broader stock indicators also gave up steep gains and closed down. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.35, or 0.38 percent, to 1,385.59, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 13.30, or 0.55 percent, to 2,412.80.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 2.75, or 0.38 percent, to 716.18.
 The dollar dropped against most other major currencies, while gold prices turned higher.
 Crude oil for June delivery fell $2.17, to settle at $113.46 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after falling more than $3 a barrel on Tuesday.
 The stock market rallied in the hours before the Fed decision because of stronger-than-expected economic and corporate reports -- a trend in recent weeks that has helped the three major indexes post their first monthly gains after five consecutive months of losses.
 The Dow climbed 4.54 percent for the month of April; the S.& P. rose 4.75 percent; and the Nasdaq jumped 5.9 percent. However, the Dow is down 3.35 percent for the year, while the S.& P. shows a loss of 5.64 percent for the year, and the Nasdaq is off 9.03 percent.
 The Commerce Department estimated on Wednesday that the gross domestic product rose at a modest seasonally adjusted annual rate of 0.6 percent during the first quarter, while the Chicago purchasing managers' index showed another month of contraction in Midwest manufacturing.
 Many economists had forecast a lower rise in the gross domestic product in the first quarter, however -- some had even predicted a contraction -- and on average, they had expected a reading of 48.0 for the April purchasing managers' index instead of the reported 48.2.
 Another report that beat lowered expectations came from General Motors, whose quarterly loss of $3.3 billion because of a supplier strike and weak American sales was milder than Wall Street had predicted. Shares of the automaker, a Dow component, jumped $2, or 9.4 percent, to $23.20.
 Procter & Gamble, another Dow component, said price increases and cost controls had helped offset higher commodity costs, pushing its third-quarter profit up 8 percent. P.& G. lifted its full-year outlook, and its shares rose $1.15, to $67.05.
 The software maker SAP said that its profit slipped in the first quarter because of its takeover of another software company, Business Objects, and the weaker dollar. SAP shares fell $2.22, or 4.2 percent, to $50.23.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 23/32, to 98 4/32, after the Fed's decision. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.73 percent from 3.82 percent.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Graph showing the Dow Jones industrial average for yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); METALS MARKETS (76%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); CURRENCIES (74%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (74%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



16 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Delays in $4 Billion Brooklyn Development Are Challenged in Tenants' Lawsuit

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
The ever-lengthening timeline for completing the $4 billion Atlantic Yards project near Downtown Brooklyn is not just bad news for those who hoped to see the project's basketball arena, office towers and apartment blocks completed quickly.
 It is also, according to a lawsuit filed Wednesday, illegal. 
 The suit challenges an agreement between the project's state sponsor, the Empire State Development Corporation, and the developer, Forest City Ratner, that gives Forest City at least 12 years to complete just the first phase of the project and an unspecified amount of time after that to build the second, final phase.
 The agreement, the suit says, violates a provision in the state's eminent-domain law, under which the state agency intends to seize private buildings on Forest City's behalf. The law says a seized property must be offered back to its prior holder if it is not ''materially improved'' in 10 years.
 The agreement between the agency and Forest City was signed in 2007 but not publicly released until March of this year, on the same day that Forest City's chief executive, Bruce C. Ratner, was quoted in The New York Times as saying that the hobbled economy could hold the project up for years.
 The suit, filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan on behalf of 13 tenants whose apartments face condemnation, asks the court to void the parts of the agreement that give Forest City more than 10 years to build Atlantic Yards.
 The lawyer for the tenants, George Locker, said fixing the problem would not be as simple as changing the deadlines in the agreement from more than 12 years to 10 years. 
 ''They could change the language,'' Mr. Locker said. ''But changing the language doesn't mean changing words on a piece of paper. It means Phase 2 of the project would be declared abandoned. Because we know he's not even starting it for more than 12 years.''
 The state agency declined to comment on the suit; a spokeswoman said officials had not had the opportunity to review it.
 The suit is at least the sixth filed against the project, but the first in more than a year. All the previous suits have lost at least one round in court. The 8-million-square-foot project -- more than 6,000 apartments, office space and an arena for the Nets on 22 acres near the intersection of Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues -- has been widely opposed for its huge size, effect on traffic and the use of eminent domain to condemn property on behalf of a private builder. 
 Forest City was also a development partner in the new Midtown headquarters of The New York Times Company.
 More than half the structures on the site have been demolished and more than $42 million in contracted work is nearing completion, Forest City said Wednesday. 
 But Mr. Ratner's recently conceded difficulties -- he has indefinitely delayed the project's signature skyscraper, known as Miss Brooklyn -- have energized his opponents, in a particularly bitter, told-you-so way. 
 The second phase of the project is to contain most of the 2,250 units of moderate-income housing that helped Atlantic Yards win political support and more than $300 million in state and city subsidies, and critics have questioned all along whether most of the affordable housing will ever be built.
 ''When you spend hundreds of millions of dollars in public money on something you know the developer is never in a position to deliver,'' Mr. Locker said, ''and government bodies take votes and appropriate hundreds of millions of dollars of taxpayer money, which is in short supply, based on the promise of affordable housing and jobs, and it's not going to be built in the statutory 10 years, it's really a fraud on the public.''
 The standing of the tenants to be plaintiffs in the suit is owed to an earlier ruling that went against Mr. Locker, which held that tenants, and not just owners, were considered ''condemnees'' under eminent-domain law. 
 Norman Oder, author of the Atlantic Yards Report blog and a critic of the project, noted that Forest City's agreement with the state, and one with the city that he wrote about Wednesday after obtaining a copy through a Freedom of Information request, both appear to impose relatively minor penalties if Forest City starts missing its deadlines.
 ''It seems to me,'' Mr. Oder said, ''that Forest City has reason to be more concerned about losses from the Nets and from construction cost increases than from the penalties posed in these agreements.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 9, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on May 1 about a lawsuit against the Empire State Development Corporation over the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn misstated, in some copies, the year in which a financing agreement that prompted the lawsuit was signed by the state agency and the project's developer, Forest City Ratner. It was 2007, not 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (82%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



17 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: French Premier to Seek Common Fiscal Policy in U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and KATRIN BENNHOLD

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The French prime minister, Francois Fillon, is using his May 1 holiday to travel to Washington, where he will try to decipher American economic policy and build a common approach to meet growing concerns in both countries about market instability and the weak dollar. 
 Mr. Fillon, in an interview on Wednesday in his gilded Hotel Matignon office, said that together, the United States and Europe might have more success in persuading China to allow its currency, the yuan, to appreciate significantly against the dollar and the euro. 
 China has kept the yuan at an artificially low level against the dollar as part of policies to stimulate its export-driven economy. And as the euro has appreciated against the dollar, it has become even harder for Europe to export to China. 
 France wants to get an idea from American officials like Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, ''about their vision and their forecasts over the medium term,'' how Americans are coping with the dollar and the subprime crisis and ''the impact we can expect,'' given France's budget problems, Mr. Fillon said.
 ''We need a joint approach with the United States on exchange rates,'' he said. ''The Americans and the Europeans have to obtain an appreciation of the yuan against the other currencies.'' The question is not just economic, he said. ''It's a political discussion we have to have.'' Europe alone, he said, is not strong enough to persuade the Chinese.
 ''There is political pressure to be put on China, with more chance of success if we're united,'' Mr. Fillon said. 
 His boss, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, will bring some specific proposals to the summit meeting of the Group of 8 major industrialized countries in July. One Western bargaining chip, Mr. Fillon said, might be the prospect of China's membership in the group.
 The French need Washington's help on China, especially after the fierce anti-France protests in China over Tibet and the Beijing Olympic Games. But France's emphasis on the yuan might signal the opening of another front between the West and China, the world's largest emerging economy. The high euro has strained European exports, and the falling dollar has led to concerns in the United States that inflation will accelerate -- and that foreigners will start buying not only American products on the cheap, but also American companies.
 France shares global concerns that the crisis that started with the subprime disaster is not finished. ''In several countries, there have been near defaults of financial institutions,'' he noted, ''and growth forecasts, while not catastrophic, are falling.''
 But Mr. Fillon, who has been prime minister of the center-right government for nearly a year, has serious domestic political concerns as well. The sudden increase in prices for fuel, basic foods and transportation is making it more difficult for him and Mr. Sarkozy to make good on their promises to institute structural reform and increase the purchasing power of citizens whose salaries are not growing nearly as fast as inflation.
 Mr. Sarkozy wants to open the French system, with its generous social benefits, to more competition and market forces.
 ''The more time passes, the easier it is to feel resistance, this is why 2008 is a strategic year for us,'' Mr. Fillon said.
 Mr. Fillon, 54, a Gaullist and defense expert, made an electoral pact with the more liberal Mr. Sarkozy to try to push through structural changes from the right. Some of their ideas -- deregulating the labor market, reducing the size of the public sector, shrinking the deficit -- are hardly original. Other countries, like Britain and even Germany, have instituted such changes.
 ''France is at a key moment of its history,'' Mr. Fillon said. ''Either she accepts to work more, makes more of an effort, implements reforms and we keep our social model effective -- or we let ourselves go, and our social model will become unsustainable, and it's a process of decline.''
 ''Obviously it's easier to reform when there is a little growth,'' he said, which is ''why it's so important to us to know what the impact of the American crisis will be on our economy, to adjust our budget and the pace of our reforms.''
 While Mr. Sarkozy's dramatic personal life has led to a drop in his approval ratings, the poll numbers for Mr. Fillon, a quieter man, have remained higher. That disparity has led to some tension between them, according to the French press. Mr. Fillon has called the reports ''exaggerated,'' but said recently that although he was loyal to Mr. Sarkozy, he was not a courtier.
 Asked about his choice of words, Mr. Fillon was momentarily uncomfortable. ''I wanted to say that I was loyal, that I was faithful, but that I have my own convictions,'' he said.
 Forty years after French students tried to change the system from the street, they are now terrified of change, Mr. Fillon said. ''A majority of the French are pessimistic about the future, which is not the case for most European countries, and that's especially true for French youth,'' he said, ''We are late regarding reforms and the young generation feels that there's something heavy weighing on its future, weighing on its shoulders, that it is going to pay the price of the current generation's lack of courage, who didn't push through necessary reforms.''
 What France needs most, he said, is a restoration of faith, ''faith in the future, faith in institutions, faith in the political system.''
 Mr. Fillon is married to a Welsh woman, Penelope, and they have five children. At a recent France-Wales rugby match, he said, she sang the French national anthem, but very softly. ''Then she sang the Welsh national anthem and there'' -- Mr. Fillon took a huge breath and stretched his arms wide -- ''oof, with real force!'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Francois Fillon says France needs ''a joint approach with the United States on exchange rates.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); OLYMPICS (60%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS FILLON (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (72%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (97%); CHINA (96%); EUROPE (94%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



18 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Starbucks Reports 28% Drop in Profit and Trims Store Openings

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Facing an increasingly stingy consumer, Starbucks is tightening its belt. 
 With profit down 28 percent, Starbucks said it would open fewer new stores in the United States, slash expenses and sell better-tasting coffee in the face of a troubled economy that is leaving some consumers with less discretionary income.
 ''This is a very tough operating environment for us, and we're not alone,'' Howard Schultz, the company's chief executive, said in an interview. ''We're redirecting the growth of our U.S. stores to reflect the tough economy.'' 
 Starbucks said second quarter profit fell 28 percent, to $108.7 million, from $150.8 million a year earlier, while earnings declined 21 percent, to 15 cents a share from 19 cents. The results included reorganization costs of about 3 cents a share. The company said revenue rose 12 percent, to $2.5 billion. 
 The report came just a week after Starbucks warned of lower-than-expected earnings and cut its full-year forecast, citing a decline in quarterly sales and describing the economic environment as the weakest in the company's history. Wall Street analysts had forecast 19 cents a share for the quarter.
 Most recently, Starbucks has suffered the effects of the crisis in the housing market, particularly in Southern California and south Florida. 
 What used to be an ''affordable luxury'' is no longer that for some customers, Mr. Schultz said, referring to Starbucks' signature espresso drinks.
 ''Like most other retailers and restaurants, we are experiencing a downturn in customer traffic, demonstrated in reduced frequency of customer visits, that we believe ties to a real reduction in consumers' discretionary spending habits,'' Mr. Schultz said. 
 The report, released after the close of regular trading, had little impact on Starbucks shares. The stock, which fell 11 percent after the company's warning last week, rose 3 cents, to $16.23 a share, in regular trading. 
 ''This is certainly a positive step,'' said Larry Miller, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets. ''At least they're on the road to recovery, but I think it's going to be a long road.''
 Mr. Schultz, who returned as chief executive in January in hopes of turning the company around, said the results were heavily influenced by operations in the United States, which accounted for 77 percent of revenue. Same store sales in the United States fell by about 5 percent.
 ''We are not satisfied with the downturn of traffic in our stores, and we are working diligently to reverse that,'' Mr. Schultz said. ''There are no sacred cows.'' 
 Starbucks said that in the United States it planned to open 1,020 stores this year, down from its previous goal of 1,175, and to open fewer than 400 stores a year from 2009 to 2011. But internationally, the company plans to continue its expansion, with more than 1,000 new stores a year from 2009 to 2011. Starbucks' store count will be about 21,500 stores by the end of 2011.
 The company, based in Seattle, plans to cut capital expenses to $800 million, from about $1.1 billion, from 2009 to 2011. About 70 percent of that will be for stores.
 Mr. Schultz said that while customers were not visiting Starbucks stores as often as they once did, he did not believe that meant they were abandoning Starbucks for its competitors. 
 Mr. Schultz said the company had begun to lure customers back with a new coffee called Pike Place Roast, a better brewing system and improved service. The company also announced three new cold beverages. 
 Starbucks expects profit this fiscal year to be lower than the 87 cents a share reported last year, but company officials declined to provide precise figures. The company expects revenue growth of 13 percent to 14 percent this year. 
 Looking ahead over the next three years, the company expects profit of 90 cents a share to $1 in 2009, $1.10 to $1.20 in 2010 and $1.35 to $1.50 in 2011.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



19 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: What Would You Drive, if the Taxpayers Paid?

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Representative Anthony D. Weiner, Democrat of Brooklyn and Queens, drives a 2008 Chevrolet Impala, leased for $219 a month. Representative Michael R. McNulty, a Democrat from the Albany area, gets around in a 2007 Mercury Mariner hybrid, a sport utility vehicle, for $816 a month.
 ''It gets a little better than 25 miles a gallon,'' Mr. McNulty said.
 Charles B. Rangel, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, is not so caught up in the question of gas mileage. He leases a 2004 Cadillac DeVille for $777.54 a month. The car is 17 feet long with a 300-horsepower engine and seats five comfortably.
 ''It's one of the bigger Cadillacs,'' Mr. Rangel, of Harlem, said cheerfully this week. ''I've got a desk in it. It's like an airplane.'' 
 Modest or more luxurious, the cars are all paid for by taxpayers. The use of a car -- gas included -- is one of the benefits of being a member of the House of Representatives.
 There are few restrictions on what kind of car the members can choose, and there is no limit on how much they can spend. But the benefit can be politically sensitive, given the growing concerns about automobile emissions and an economy that has left many people struggling to pay for the rapidly rising cost of gas, which was averaging $3.63 a gallon nationwide earlier this week.
 Not only does the federal government pick up the cost of the lease and the gas, but also general maintenance, insurance, registration fees and excess mileage charges. The perk itself may draw heightened attention in the coming weeks as members of Congress consider proposals to address gas prices, including one to suspend temporarily the federal excise tax on gasoline, 18.4 cents a gallon.
 Congressional records show that about 125 members of the House make use of the benefit, which has been in place since at least the 1980s and is part of the allowance provided for their office operations. They include Representatives Charlie Melancon of Louisiana (2007 Chevy Tahoe), Bobby L. Rush of Illinois (2007 Lincoln Navigator) and Alcee L. Hastings of Florida (2006 Infiniti M45). 
 The Senate does not permit its members to lease cars with public money.
 Of the 42 representatives from New York and New Jersey, at least a dozen lease cars, and their choices run the gamut. Some choose not to lease a car, in an effort to avoid yet one more headache.
 ''There are so many ethical issues people can raise,'' said Representative Peter T. King, a Long Island Republican, who stopped leasing a car through his office in 2004. ''I felt it just wasn't worth the trouble or the aggravation. With the issues that people can raise against you, I just figured it didn't make sense.''
 Members have found themselves under fire in their districts for what their constituents may regard as extravagant tastes or for leasing foreign cars. Before the 2006 election, one Ithaca resident denounced Representative Maurice D. Hinchey's lease of a BMW 530i to The Binghamton Press & Sun-Bulletin, saying that Mr. Hinchey, a Democrat, ''sticks it to'' the taxpayers and American workers. (Mr. Hinchey also leases a 2007 Nissan Altima for $200 a month for his chief of staff.)
 In 2007, the House adopted a rule requiring members to choose cars from a list of low-emissions vehicles approved by the Environmental Protection Agency. Asked about their cars over the past week, many New York representatives offered environmental rationales, some more persuasive than others.
 Representative Edolphus Towns, a Brooklyn Democrat, said he had begun to take fuel economy into consideration and recently traded in his 2005 Lincoln Town Car (at $845 a month) for a 2008 Lincoln MKX, called a crossover utility vehicle, (at $715 a month). 
 ''I no longer have the big car because of the gas situation,'' Mr. Towns said.
 It turns out, however, that the Town Car and the MKX get the same gas mileage: about 16 m.p.g. in the city and 23 on the highway, according to the Department of Energy. House leaders were concerned enough about the issue that they sent a memo to members suggesting that they consider leasing hybrids, according to one lawmaker who leases. Still, among the New York and New Jersey delegation, only one member -- Mr. McNulty -- uses a hybrid, according to the best available information.
 ''I think more members are going to be going to the hybrids,'' said Mr. McNulty.
 Mr. McNulty would not offer an opinion of members who lease more luxurious cars. ''I'm not going to judge another member's decision,'' he said. ''Mine was utility.''
 Other members stand out for their more downscale choices.
 Representative Jim Saxton, a Republican of New Jersey, leases a 2004 Chevy TrailBlazer at what he views as a reasonable $310 a month.
 ''Congressman Saxton feels an elected public official should choose a car that doesn't cost taxpayers an extravagant amount,'' said Jeff Sagnip, his spokesman.
 Of course, there are concerns beyond cost, other members say.
 ''I can tell you Lexus has one of the best services and is one of the most reliable cars I know,'' said Representative Gregory W. Meeks, a Queens Democrat, who leases a 2007 Lexus LS 460 at $998 a month. Mr. Meeks, interviewed a few feet from the House floor last week, seemed reluctant to go into detail, saying he was worried that a story about members' cars could be ''distorted'' or negative.
 ''These are never lighthearted stories,'' he said. His spokeswoman declined to discuss details of his leasing agreement.
 Mr. Towns said leasing makes sense when you put as many miles on a car as he does traveling his Brooklyn district. He typically turns in the cars every few years. ''After two years of traveling in the district, that's a lot of wear and tear,'' he said.
 For Representative Louise M. Slaughter, a Buffalo-area Democrat, safety was a worry, given her sprawling district. Ms. Slaughter used to drive her personal car to get around, she said. Then, in 2002, her political rivals in the Legislature in Albany redrew her district, in what she viewed as a deliberate effort to force her from office.
 The new map, she said, resulted in a vast swath of western New York that is treacherous to travel in winter. She turned to a 2007 Buick Lucerne, which she leases for $808.29 a month.
 ''For the longest time, I didn't do it at all,'' she said of leasing. But the Lucerne, she said, had good traction and, perhaps more important, came equipped with a satellite tracking system. ''I figured if I got stuck in a snow bank people could find me,'' she said. ''If I'm in an accident, they might be able to find me and not have to wait until the thaw.''
 Mr. Rangel said he frequently offers rides to constituents so they can discuss their concerns in the luxurious confines of his DeVille.
 ''I want them to feel that they are somebody and their congressman is somebody,'' Mr. Rangel explained. ''And when they say, 'This is nice,' it feels good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rep. Charles B. Rangel of New York chooses to lease a 2004 Cadillac DeVille. (pg.A1)
 Representative Charles B. Rangel says his leased Cadillac DeVille projects an image of success. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) CHART: HOW THE REPRESENTATIVES RIDE: Twelve representatives from New York and one from New Jersey who lease cars at taxpayer expense. (Source: U.S. Department of Energy) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); GASOLINE (75%); FUEL TAX (75%); EXCISE TAX (72%); EMISSIONS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); ETHICS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (59%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (90%); MICHAEL R MCNULTY (89%); CHARLIE MELANCON (79%); ANTHONY D WEINER (74%); ALCEE L HASTINGS (59%); BOBBY L RUSH (59%); PETER T KING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



20 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2245 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: May 1, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 CHINA'S FIRST OFFICIAL ADMISSION
 Of Killing a Tibetan in Unrest
 A gun battle in a rural area of northwest China this week left a police officer and a Tibetan insurgent dead, said state-run news media. It was China's first official admission that its forces had killed a Tibetan in the anti-government unrest that began in mid-March. Tibetan exile groups say that more than 200 people, most of them Tibetan, have died in the crackdowns. PAGE A6 
 PAKISTAN PARTIES CONSIDER JUDGES
 Leaders of Pakistan's governing coalition are holding crucial talks in Dubai over whether to restore the high court judges ousted by President Pervez Musharraf in November, an issue that had badly strained relations between the coalition partners. The issue is a matter of immense public interest in Pakistan. PAGE A15 
 FRENCH PREMIER TO TRAVEL TO U.S.
 The French prime minister, Francois Fillon, said in an interview that he will travel to Washington to try to decipher American economic policy and build an approach to meet growing concerns about market instability. Mr. Fillon said the United States and Europe might have more success in acting together to persuade China to allow its currency, the yuan, to appreciate significantly against both the dollar and the euro. PAGE A8 
 NATO CONFRONTS RUSSIA ON REBELS
 NATO escalated its protests over Russian policy toward Georgia's breakaway Abkhazia region, accusing Moscow of stirring tensions by announcing plans to increase the number of Russian soldiers there. ''The decision to send more troops to Abkhazia does not contribute to stability, but undermines it,'' a NATO spokesman said. PAGE A13 
 WAR ENDANGERING IRAQI MUSIC
 They are bound by the oud, an instrument whose roots run so deep in Iraq's history that some say its music represents the country's soul. Rahim Alhaj, who fled Iraq in 1991, plays concerts in New York and was recently nominated for a Grammy. Dhia Jabbar taught students in a Baghdad shop until militants critical of secular music destroyed his instrument. Both men are trying to revive the oud, but Mr. Jabbar is losing hope. ''Iraq is dead,'' he says. PAGE A6 
 Annual Terrorism Report Released 14 
 Cracks in Europe's Monetary Union A10 
 NATIONAL 
 WHITE HOUSE TO SHARE
 Opinions on Interrogation
 The Bush administration, yielding somewhat to Congressional pressure, agreed to show the Senate and House Intelligence Committees secret Justice Department legal opinions justifying harsh interrogation techniques. But that did not satisfy other members of Congress who have pushed for the documents for several years, so officials are discussing more efforts. PAGE A16
 UPDATING TAXI FARES
 The District of Columbia is about to simplify its method of calculating taxi fares by doing what every other major American city already does: use time-and-distance meters. Fares have depended on how many geographic zones a cab crossed, which many riders find confusing and critics say makes it too easy for drivers to overcharge. PAGE A19
 DON'T READ MY LIPS
 Though Senator John McCain has promised not to raise taxes, his campaign acknowledged that the health plan he outlined this week would have the effect of increasing tax payments for some workers. But they would primarily be those with high incomes and expensive health plans. (Has Mr. McCain gone Democratic?) PAGE A22
 MINORITIES GAIN GROUND
 Racial and ethnic minorities in the United States are keeping pace to become racial and ethnic majorities by 2050. Newly released data shows that minority members have already become a majority of youngsters under 15 in Florida and Nevada. Over all, Hispanics continued to grow faster than any other group. PAGE A18
 AN AUTO SOLUTION
 Arizona is running out of room on automobile license plates to accommodate its fast-growing population. So, will it (a.) Cap the number of vehicles, or (b.) Ban all vehicles, or (c.) add a digit to the plates? PAGE A19
 BUSINESS
 G.M. AUTO SALES PROFITS
 Undercut by Other Losses
 General Motors has greatly improved its primary business -- selling cars -- but it's losing billions of dollars elsewhere. Automotive profits rose to $392 million in the first quarter, from $231 million a year ago. But it lost $3.25 billion, or $5.74 a share, as it struggled with a bankrupt former parts division, a strike at a major supplier and home loans made by its finance arm that went bad. PAGE C4
 THE NEW TV ON THE BLOCK
 Still pondering that big-screen TV question: Plasma or L.C.D.? Ponder no longer, David Pogue writes in State of the Art. ''There's a new TV on the block, and its picture is so amazing, it makes plasma and L.C.D. look like cave drawings.'' Surely there's a catch, you're thinking, and there is. Maybe even two. PAGE C1
 MEMORY CHIP ADVANCE
 Hewlett-Packard scientists reported that they had designed a simple circuit element they believe will enable tiny powerful computers that could imitate biological functions. The device, called a memristor, could make it possible to build extremely dense computer memory chips that use far less power than today's DRAM memory chips. PAGE C4
 TIME WARNER SHEDDING CABLE
 Time Warner said that it would completely spin off its cable company, essentially shedding the pipes that have underpinned much of the company's fortune. The announcement, largely anticipated by Wall Street, underscored a profound philosophical shift: emphasizing content -- television shows and films -- over the distribution system. PAGE C1
 MAYOR ACCUSED OF FRAUD
 An Alabama investment banker gave more than $156,000 to the mayor of Birmingham in undisclosed payments while the mayor was arranging millions of dollars in fees for the banker's firm, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit charging fraud in the underwriting of bond offerings and interest-rate swaps. PAGE C2
 Metro 
 CITY DEPARTMENTS GIVING UP
 Their Free-Parking Placards
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, responding to criticism of abused perks, pledged to trim the number of free-parking placards by at least 20 percent, and the cuts are exceeding that. The Police Department gave up about 20,000, the Fire Department lost more than 2,000, and the mayor's office gave up 163. PAGE B1
 SUIT AGAINST GUN MAKERS FAILS
 A federal appeals court threw out New York City's longstanding lawsuit against the gun industry, ruling that a relatively new federal law protects gun makers against such suits. The appellate ruling ended perhaps the boldest avenue by which the city has sought to stem the flow of illegal guns into New York: a claim that gun makers and distributors have knowingly flooded illicit, underground markets with their weapons. PAGE B2
 MANDATING DISCRETION
 Some people in Long Beach Township, N. J., felt that surfers were taking a few too many liberties changing into and out of their surfing duds, so the township cracked down. But to many people there, it is a solution in search of a controversy. PAGE B3
 SPORTS
 COLLEGE FOOTBALL DECIDES
 For Postseason Status Quo
 After years of talking about it, major college football's top officials gathered in Hollywood, Fla., to have a formal discussion about changing the sport's controversial and polarizing postseason format. They postured and talked endlessly of models before deciding that college football's method for determining a national champion will stay the same until at least January 2015. PAGE D3
 IN PRAISE OF PENGUINS
 It's a risky notion to raise, this dynasty thing, but George Vecsey does just that regarding Sidney Crosby and Evgeni Malkin of the Pittsburgh Penguins. ''Right now, the Penguins are a pleasure to watch,'' he adds, ''the way they control a power play, flitting the puck back and forth with their teammates, wearing down the Rangers, a child's game of keep away being performed in public, in the Rangers building, as they say in hockey.'' PAGE D6
 THAT OTHER DERBY
 Not so long ago the Arkansas Derby seemed to be the place where 3-year-olds started on the road to obscurity. Smarty Jones changed that in 2004 on the way to winning the Kentucky Derby, which could bode well for this year's Arkansas winner, Gayego. PAGE D3
 Giants Meet President D3
 OBITUARIES
 YOSSI HAREL, 90
 He renamed the rickety ship he commanded Exodus 1947 and sailed it to legend as a symbol of the righteousness of the mission by Jews to settle Palestine in the face of British opposition. PAGE C14
 JAMES DAY, 89
 A former president of Channel 13 in New York, an early executive of the public television station KQED in San Francisco and an on-air interviewer for many years, he was probably best known as the host of a weekly interview program in the late 1950s and early '60s called ''Kaleidoscope,'' and then, in the 1970s, of a nightly show, ''Day at Night.'' PAGE C14
 ARTS
 TV SERIES BEARING BRUNT
 Of Writers' Strike Fallout
 The hope among TV people was that, once the writers' strike was over and new scripted shows returned, all would be well again. But it hasn't been, or not entirely, and even some reliable hits like ''House'' are posting significant declines in ratings. Have viewers dropped out in pique, or did they just lose track and give up? PAGE E2 
 DAD AS BOGEYMAN
 Augusten Burroughs, he of ''Running With Scissors'' and assorted other offerings, is back on the family memoir bookshelf with ''A Wolf at the Table. '' This one concentrates on his father, for whom Mr. Burroughs does not harbor fond memories. ''Determinedly unfunny, awkwardly histrionic and sometimes anything but credible,'' Janet Maslin writes in her review, ''it repudiates everything that put Mr. Burroughs on the map.'' PAGE E1 
 THE ROAD TO JUSTICE
 ''Thurgood,'' a solo show starring Laurence Fishburne as Thurgood Marshall is ''essentially an opportunity to watch a movie star deliver a history lecture,'' Charles Isherwood writes in his review. ''But since Mr. Fishburne is an effortlessly compelling actor, and the history in question is charged with a moral urgency that still resonates today,'' he adds, the play ''is surprisingly absorbing, at times even stirring.'' PAGE E1 
 Adding Online Sales E3 
 HOUSE & HOME
 A FORM OF SUBURBAN DREAM:
 A Lawn That Needs No Mowing
 Consider the possibility: a lawn that never needs mowing and yet provides a carpet of green, lush and velvety even in the shade. No, it isn't AstroTurf, or any other version of artificial grass. It isn't grass at all; it's moss. And it's gaining in popularity as an alternative to the traditional lawn. PAGE D4 
 THE HUMAN COST OF ENERGY
 The writer Alexandra Fuller has two homes in Wyoming, a state that helped inspire her newest book, based on the true story of one young man's life and death working as a roughneck in the oil fields. It is the kind of story, she says, that too many people know nothing about. PAGE D1 
 Houses on Tour D8 
 STYLES
 TURNING SOCIAL NETWORKS
 Into Tools for Business
 They're known as social-networking sites, the obvious implication being that they're supposed to be fun. But with the economy being what it is, consumer confidence sinking and lots of workers worried that they might soon become ex-workers, sites like Facebook, Friendster and MySpace are evolving into platforms for work networking. PAGE G1 
 OPEN-TOED FETISHES
 To conjure the Christian Louboutin boutique, imagine ''the footwear wing of Frederick's of Hollywood, if it had tottered away to seduce the Wonka factory,'' Cintra Wilson writes, adding that the ''combination of raw sex and superior architecture inspires in Louboutin fans an obsessive devotion.'' PAGE G4
 SICK AT (NOT OF) WORK
 The term sounds like a punch line, but experts say that workplace allergy accounts for about 10 percent of asthma cases in the United States. Here's one way to diagnose it: symptoms worsen as the workday progresses and lessen after you leave. And you feel fine on weekends and vacations. (O.K., maybe there is still a punch line there.) PAGE G2 
 HARD TIMES, BUT GREAT LIPS
 It isn't necessarily being taught as economic theory in business schools, but people who pay attention to such things have noticed that when times get hard, people tend give themselves little treats instead of big splurges. As a result, you might be noticing more new lipstick shades than new designer dresses on the street. PAGE G1 
 editorials
 THE GAS GUZZLER GAMBIT
 Senators John McCain and Hillary Rodham Clinton have hit on a new way to pander to American voters: a temporary suspension of the federal gasoline tax between Memorial Day and Labor Day. The proposal may draw applause and votes, but it is an expensive and environmentally unsound policy that will do nothing to help American drivers. PAGE A24
 EVEN LESS HELP IN HARD TIMES
 The troubled economy could soon create a major fiscal crisis for the state-run Medicaid and children's health programs: each percentage-point rise in the unemployment rate could increase enrollments by one million people. These problems will be made worse by the Bush administration's efforts to make cuts in the programs. PAGE A24
 OP-ED
 GAIL COLLINS
 Men with egos. It's getting so you can't even have a starlet-in-crisis story without an overweening father figure lurking in the background. What Bill Clinton, Jeremiah Wright and Billy Ray Cyrus have in common. PAGE 25
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 Vampire bats are remarkably well-adapted to the rain forest. Can we humans adjust as effectively to the Amazon as the bats have? PAGE 25

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MUSIC (86%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (83%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); JUDGES (75%); HISTORY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); EURO (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS FILLON (71%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NORTHWEST CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); TIBET (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); GEORGIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



21 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Carolina, Out of Its Mind

BYLINE: By ALLAN GURGANUS. 
Allan Gurganus is the author of ''The Practical Heart: Four Novellas.''

DATELINE: Hillsborough, N.C. 

 BODY:
With just days to go before the Indiana and North Carolina primaries, the Op-Ed page asked writers from each state to report on the race. Here are their first dispatches.
 AS a kid I loved horror movies starring not one but two familiar monsters, ''King Kong vs. Godzilla.'' A double Saturday matinee for the price of one. 
 But now the last two standing Democratic titans come lumbering into North Carolina's late primary. Help! Smarter villagers tend to run. No wonder most Republicans lurk indoors. They're hoping that the chafing superpowers of Hillary Clinton vs. Barack Obama will prove self-canceling. I'm terrified they're right. 
 Couldn't one of these left-leaning giants retreat to a cave till our next election cycle? Why, at a time so dire, do they both seem focused solely on their own images, not on our bleeding nation? 
 North Carolina prides itself, if silently, on modesty. Rich people here spend a fortune hiding their good fortune. Our primary comes very late: we'd really rather agree than decide. This year, we find ourselves blitzed with TV ads, glutted with rallies, stuck by stickers. We, the season's largest remaining bloc of tie-breaking votes, begin to feel like those unlucky citizens caught riding the elevated train bound straight into King Kong-Godzilla's center-city battle.
 As a lifelong Democrat, I find myself asking: What crossed stars ordained that our party alone should alternate a drought of candidates with this year's tidal flood of them? I liked Joe Biden. But let us praise sudden excess. There's something wondrous in life's going abruptly abundant. Especially after our eight years of sustained near-death experience.
 The air has gone out of American buoyancy. Our houses have stopped selling, even to New Jersey retirees. Our economy is dying of its own flagrant usuries. North Carolina's soldiers return home impaired, suicidal, strangers to their loved ones. One day, Baghdad -- next, Wal-Mart. ''Military mental health services?'' A contradiction in terms. 
 Our popular village postman joined the Army Reserve. He has been missing in action from our local lives, his route a wake, his charm and knowledge irreplaceable. The difference between knowing one candid soldier in Iraq and none at all? That's the difference between registering Democratic or Republican. 
 There is, out here in small-town America, a deep wish to do the right thing. With that comes bitter confusion about which right thing we must cling to next: Our God? Our guns? One another? Since North Carolina has early-voting-centers, most people I know have already cast their ballots. Actual issues are now beside the point; emotions reign. We all feel a sickening urgency to choose one cure. 
 I heard this story from a poll watcher in another town. It may be village lore but bears repeating. One old man keeps turning up at the voting center. A carefully dressed widower with lots of time, he has early Alzheimer's but a strong memory of civic pride. He senses the importance of this election. He daily tries to cast his vote. Friendly locals go through the motion of looking up his name, likely saying, ''No, you voted two weeks back. Well done, sir. Rest easy.''
 But, in this emergency, is that possible? Like the gent in his Sunday suit, wouldn't we all vote hourly, if only we could help? Let the cure come. But, Lord? Soon, send our cure soon.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FOGELSON-LUBLINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HORROR FILMS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); ARMIES (65%); ARMED FORCES (61%); MENTAL HEALTH (61%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE BIDEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (69%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



22 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Fed Cuts Rate but Hints About a Pause

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve, mixing concern about the feeble economy with worries about rising inflation, reduced short-term interest rates Wednesday for the seventh time since September, while signaling a pause in any additional rate cuts for now. 
 The Fed's action brought the federal funds rate -- the rate it charges banks for overnight loans -- to 2 percent, from 2.25 percent, the lowest level since November 2004. It defended that step as necessary to counter the ailing housing sector and the ''considerable stress'' shadowing financial markets.
 The move followed new indications that the economy remained fragile at best. The Commerce Department reported early Wednesday that the economy expanded only 0.6 percent on an annualized basis in the first three months of 2008, short of an overall downturn but still far from healthy.
 The Dow Jones industrial average, which was trading up 178 points shortly after the Fed's announcement, dropped sharply in late trading, ending down 11.81 points at 12,820.13. 
 The new economic data and the Fed's move reflect what most Americans have been experiencing. They are spending more on gasoline and food and less on almost everything else. Their homes have declined in value, and businesses are investing less and shedding jobs.
 The move came with a repetition of the discord that has accompanied some of the Fed's interest rate cuts in the past, each time provoking criticism among conservative economists and other commentators.
 Two regional Fed bank presidents on the policy-setting committee again dissented from the decision to cut interest rates. They and many other economists have called on the Fed to shift its focus from countering a possible recession to heading off inflation spurred by the high costs of food and energy. 
 The Fed's statement signaled that it was on the verge of doing just that, but wanted to nudge rates lower one more time to show its concern about weakness and instability in the markets and the economy at large.
 The Federal Open Market Committee -- comprising Fed board members and presidents of regional Federal Reserve banks -- employed careful language cues to suggest that it was finished lowering rates, for now anyway.
 ''The substantial easing of monetary policy to date, combined with ongoing measures to foster market liquidity,'' the committee said, ''should help to promote moderate growth over time and to mitigate risks to economic activity.'' 
 This was widely taken to mean that the actions since last summer -- cutting the fed funds rate to 2 percent, from 5.25 percent; opening new lending facilities to banks; intervening in the fire sale of Bear Stearns; and acting generally to make it easier for financial firms to buy and sell securities -- was enough for the time being.
 The fact that in its statement Wednesday, the Fed also omitted references to the ''downside risks'' to the economy and to its intention to respond to those risks ''in a timely manner'' -- words used in March when rates were last cut -- was also a sign of a pause in rate-cutting.
 At the same time, the Fed appeared to leave itself enough room to act to stimulate the economy if the situation deteriorates.
 ''The Fed is leaving it up to financial markets to determine what they do next,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, a private equity and research firm. ''I don't know if we call this a hint of a pause. It was more like a soft gesture.''
 Two anti-inflation hawks on the Open Market Committee -- Richard W. Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed, and Charles I. Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed -- voted against lowering the rates, as they had last month when the rates were cut to 2.25 percent, from 3 percent.
 But some economists skeptical about the need to stimulate the economy, and sharing the Fed dissenters' concerns about inflation, said that by itself the latest Fed action would not have much of an impact.
 ''I think it will do little good in terms of economic expansion and the credit market's problems,'' said Martin Feldstein, professor of economics at Harvard and president of the National Bureau of Economic Research. 
 ''I think it will exacerbate somewhat the commodity price boom,'' he added. ''It would be better not to do it than do it. But if they feel they have to do it one more time and quit, that wouldn't be the end of the world.''
 The latest step by the Fed follows a period of aggressive rate cuts, but also a time of mixed signals and what some say have been missteps.
 In October, for example, the Fed said ''the upside risks to inflation'' had to be balanced against ''the downside risks to growth.''
 Shortly thereafter, in a somewhat embarrassing reversal, the losses from bad housing loans among banks and institutions in Europe and the United States forced the Fed to cast its inflationary fears aside and inject more funds into the markets.
 The most recent crisis culminated in mid-March with the Fed's taking an extraordinary role in arranging the sale of the investment firm Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase. 
 The Fed accepted $29 billion in mortgage-related securities of uncertain value as collateral in the deal, averting what Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said was the possibility of a global financial panic.
 Some critics of the Fed's policies of the last few years say it has been too quick to respond to momentary economic trends, and overly sensitive to fears of a recession. Its policies of ever-lower interest rates have contributed to the decline in the value of the dollar as investors have bought higher-yielding government securities in Europe and is seen by some analysts as sowing the seeds of higher inflation in the future.
 ''My view is that the Fed is back doing the silly things it did in the 1970s, of trying to make judgments that have long-term consequences based on short-term data,'' said Allan H. Meltzer, professor of political economy at Carnegie Mellon University. 
 ''This is the most exaggerated economic downturn in my 50 years of watching Fed policy,'' he said, adding that the housing crisis has hit hard in only about five states, whereas higher food and energy prices pose a danger of inflation spreading throughout the country.
 But many other analysts said that they shared the Fed's concerns that the chances of a recession remained paramount and that the Fed should be careful not to let down its guard.
 ''The Fed's statement today was not as clear as it could have been,'' said Nouriel Roubini, professor of economics at the Stern Business School at New York University. ''You could read it as them moving into neutral. But it also signals that if monetary and fiscal policy does not lead to the expected effect, they could be back, cutting rates again.''
 The Fed did not mention fiscal policy, but one reason for the pause in rate-cutting, many experts say, is that the central bank -- like the Treasury Department -- is watching to see the effects of the $168 billion economic stimulus package enacted this year.
 Rebate checks, part of the package, began going out this week. Democrats and Republicans, meanwhile, have increasingly accused each other of inaction over possible further steps on the economy. President Bush is demanding that Democrats extend his tax cuts indefinitely beyond their scheduled expiration at the end of 2010, while Democrats are resisting that move and pressing for an additional $30 billion in spending.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about the Federal Reserve's decision to lower a key interest rate known as the federal funds rate described it incorrectly. It is the rate at which banks lend to each other, not the rate at which the Fed lends to banks on overnight loans. (When the Fed lends to banks overnight, it uses what is called the discount rate.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, arrived for the Open Market Committee meeting in Washington on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. C5)
 Ben S. Bernanke, Federal Reserve Chairman (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (pg. C1) GRAPH: FED FUNDS RATE Graph showing the FED's funds rate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); STOCK INDEXES (68%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



23 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Politics and the Economy Occupy Ad Agencies

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

DATELINE: DANA POINT, Calif. 

 BODY:
 HERE is a look back at some of the highlights, lowlights and sidelights of the 2008 leadership conference of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, known as the Four A's, which was held here Monday through Wednesday.
 YAHOO! WHO? One speaker whom everyone at the conference looked forward to hearing was Jerry Yang, the chief executive of Yahoo, who is leading his company's efforts to fend off a takeover bid by Microsoft.
 Alas, Mr. Yang was unable to make it, said the speaker who replaced him, Susan L. Decker, Yahoo's president. It was not because of the takeover battle, she said, but rather because Mr. Yang's wife gave birth on Monday to their second daughter and he wanted to spend time with his family. 
 Ms. Decker appeared with David Kenny, chairman and chief executive at Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe, who interviewed her about online advertising and technology trends -- and the takeover bid. Ms. Decker was charmingly evasive on the last issue.
 ''There's not a lot I can say,'' she told Mr. Kenny, describing the employees of Yahoo as imbued ''with a renewed sense of wanting to show the world what we can do, given the crazy press out there.''
 INCLUDING INCLUSION A last-minute addition to the agenda of the conference was an announcement of a partnership between the sponsor association and Howard University in Washington to address a persistent problem for advertising agencies: attracting and keeping a more diverse staff of middle and senior managers.
 The Four A's has committed $250,000 to begin the founding of a Center for Excellence in Advertising at the John H. Johnson School of Communications at Howard, a historically black college, which will seek an additional $750,000 a year to support the center.
 ''It's not enough to say diversity is important,'' said Jannette L. Dates, dean of the Johnson School, who addressed a general session of the conference. ''It must be a part of the business goals of the advertising industry.''
 NOVEMBER TO REMEMBER The presidential election is still six months away, but discussions of it cropped up throughout the conference.
 For instance, an attendee asked Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive at Google, to assess the digital strategies of the three remaining Democratic and Republican candidates. ''All of them have a good understanding of technology,'' Mr. Schmidt replied, but ''each of them has made strategic errors with the Internet, or their associates have.'' He declined to be specific.
 When Ben Silverman, co-chairman at the NBC Entertainment and Universal Media Studios units of NBC Universal, part of General Electric, was making a point about how everything is ''changing so fast,'' he reached over to the political realm for an example: ''This morning I think Hillary might win.''
 And the comedian Lewis Black, who entertained the crowd on Tuesday night, criticized Senator Barack Obama's focus on hope. ''Hope is for the young,'' Mr. Black sneered.
 The current occupant of the White House did not escape Mr. Black's wrath. He mocked the recent appearance by President Bush on the NBC game show ''Deal or No Deal,'' wondering how a president could turn up on the ''dumbest'' show in the world.
 HAVE AN R-RATED DAY Actually, Mr. Black modified the word ''show'' with an obscenity that, surprisingly, also turned up in the remarks that speakers made during the general sessions of the conference. The new leaders of the Four A's are eager to demonstrate they are making major changes to the conference to reflect the changing realities of the industry, and a looser rein on language from the stage seems part of their plans.
 Almost a dozen speakers used various Anglo-Saxon words, and variations thereof, that would have raised eyebrows -- or led to mouths being washed out with soap -- at previous meetings. Suffice it to say it is unlikely that any of the words will be heard anytime soon in any of the commercials created by Four A's members.
 A PERSONAL APPROACH Among the commercials shown during a speech by Lee Clow, chairman and chief creative officer at the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, were several from the popular series for Apple that feature a hip young man who represents the company's Macintosh computers and a nerd who stands in for the PCs developed by Microsoft.
 ''It's not a coincidence,'' Mr. Clow said, ''that Mac looks like Steve Jobs when he was a kid and PC looks like Bill Gates has looked his whole life.'' The references to the founders of Apple and Microsoft, respectively, drew chuckles from the audience.
 OUT OF THE MONEY Aside from politics, another thread that ran through many discussions here was the precarious state of the economy.
 ''If we all stop advertising in a recession,'' said Mr. Silverman of NBC, ''it would be the fastest way to a depression.''
 A venture capitalist, Anton Levy, managing director of General Atlantic, said that the large advertising holding companies have ''a lot of attractive characteristics'' for prospective investors. One of them, he said, was a strong cash flow ''even in tougher environments, like today's.''
 People who came to the conference from the East Coast were agog at the prices being charged at gasoline stations near the hotel. Self-serve regular cost almost $3.84 a gallon at one Arco station and almost $4.04 at a nearby Chevron station, which also charged just shy of $4.30 for a gallon of premium gas.
 IN MEMORIAM There were tributes during the conference to two well-known agency creative executives who died since December: Philip B. Dusenberry of BBDO Worldwide, part of Omnicom, and Hal Riney, the founder of the agency now known as Publicis & Hal Riney, which is part of Publicis Groupe.
 The Riney tribute was delivered by a onetime employee, Jeff Goodby, now co-chairman of Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, an Omnicom agency. His appearance was interesting because his agency was among the most notable absentees from the membership roster of the Four A's. By inviting Mr. Goodby to speak, the organization may be signaling a rapprochement, which could take place next year, when the 2009 leadership conference is scheduled to be held in San Francisco, the home of Goodby, Silverstein.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The comedian Lewis Black's harsh words about President Bush weren't the only off-color ones at the newly casual conference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ART BEAULIEU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); TRENDS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (64%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (80%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); GOOGLE INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); JERRY YANG (77%); BEN SILVERMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



24 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; TIGHTENING THE BELT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: Is This The World's Cheapest Dress?

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
IF rock purists were unsettled last month by the opening of a designer boutique on the site of what once was CBGB, the hard-core Bowery nightclub, imagine how they will feel reading the next sentence: The old Tower Records space a few blocks away on Broadway, for two decades the spot for adolescent reveries of dance, pop and punk, has been leased by Steve & Barry's, a clothing chain where everything costs less than $10.
 Steve & Barry's, for the uninitiated, is to fashion what Tower once was to music. Steve & Barry's is manna, a store that sells stylish celebrity-branded clothes at prices that are absurdly inexpensive, lower than those at Old Navy, H & M or Forever 21, undercutting even Wal-Mart by as much as half.
 At its 264 barnlike stores in malls across the country, including the perpetually mobbed one at the Manhattan Mall in Midtown, Steve & Barry's offers an assortment of flowery sundresses designed by Sarah Jessica Parker ($8.98), heart-printed hoodies by the Nickelodeon alumna Amanda Bynes ($8.98) and basketball shoes by the New York Knicks point guard Stephon Marbury ($8.98). Lines at the registers are often 20 deep. 
 The question on everyone's lips: How do they make a decent dress or a jacket, with sleeves, or a pair of functioning shoes for $8.98?
 The answer is complicated, but for those who can remember what it was like to wile away an evening browsing the exhilaratingly chaotic downtown Tower store, its coming transformation into a temple of cheap denim short-shorts, cargo pants and walls of novelty T-shirts makes some sort of sense in the arc of cultural evolution.
 Fashion, as it has become more accessible to a generation that is obsessed with the mass emulation of celebrity style, has surpassed music (and the increasingly archaic concept of the record store) as the retail touchstone of youth. And cheap fashion has become infinitely more respectable, even cool, given the current economic climate.
 ''It seems like there is some justice in that, doesn't it?'' said Ms. Parker, who last week attended a movie premiere wearing a bitty blue sundress with a print of hothouse foliage, $8.98, from Bitten, her year-old Steve & Barry's collection. ''For a lot of people -- young women, middle-age women, regular women -- there is this idea about wanting fashion in an affordable way. They are living in a less rarefied world.''
 The significance of planning a store on Broadway -- by the time it opens this fall, it will be around the 300th Steve & Barry's in the country and the largest in New York -- is not lost on Steve Shore and Barry Prevor, childhood friends from Long Island who founded the company in 1985.
 During an interview last month in their headquarters in Port Washington, N.Y., Mr. Shore, from Syosset, and Mr. Prevor, from Merrick, both 44, said the location was a logical choice, given its proximity to New York University and their target demographic. It is also intended to send a message to the fashion industry, which has largely underestimated the chain despite sales last year, according to the business-research firm Hoover's Inc., of $1.1 billion.
 ''There's been a revolution, a full-blown revolution,'' Mr. Shore said, sounding, at times, just a bit like Crazy Eddie. ''We just haven't told anyone yet. If the Gap or Abercrombie & Fitch or J. Crew said that everything in the store is going to be $8.98 or less, it would be front-page news. But while no one was noticing, we opened stores across the country that have identical clothes for much lower prices.''
 The question, again, is how.
 They opened the first Steve & Barry's store at the University of Pennsylvania in 1985 with the idea of selling licensed collegiate designs at much lower prices than the campus bookstores. In the 1990s, after expanding with locations near Big Ten campuses, they introduced a larger, mall-based format selling casual sportswear (mostly T-shirts bearing sophomoric logos, targeted toward young men -- three inebriated frogs, for example, are ''Toadily Wasted''). 
 In 2006, they began offering more fashionable designs in partnerships with Mr. Marbury, Ms. Parker and other celebrities, thereby changing the look and concept of the stores, but not the underlying business model that relied on an obsessive attention to costs.
 Mr. Shore and Mr. Prevor, dressed in chinos and rumpled shirts, frequently described the company as ''the Google of fashion'' and rattled off several ways they had devised to make a high-quality product at the low prices. The clothes appear to be well made -- several of the Bitten dresses, made in India, were lined, and the strapless dress Ms. Parker wore is constructed with an internal elastic band to hold it up. And the basketball shoes appear sturdy, although they are made with fake leather (well, so are Stella McCartney's). 
 Steve & Barry's saves big, for example, by opening stores in underperforming malls, where the owners are more likely to negotiate rents and offer other incentives; by building its own bare-bones store displays; by maintaining only a small public relations office in Manhattan; and by manufacturing in countries like China, India, Madagascar and more than 20 others, including the United States. 
 Though the prices will raise concerns that the clothes are made in sweatshop factories that underpay or otherwise exploit workers, Mr. Shore and Mr. Prevor said absolutely not.
 Howard Schacter, the company's chief partnership officer, said Steve & Barry's monitors its subcontractors carefully and demands ethical business practices. The key to its low prices, he said, is a razor-slim profit margin. 
 Then, too, Steve & Barry's doesn't advertise, but rather relies on word of mouth. 
 Steve & Barry's also saves small -- for example, by using discount hotels, like Motel 6 and Econo Lodge, for travel, assigning one printer to 50 employees and myriad other ways.
 On a tour of their offices, where designers' cubicles are retrofitted into dreary, sometimes windowless nooks, Mr. Shore and Mr. Prevor pointed out aging furniture that Mr. Prevor found in his parents' basement and a filing cabinet that bore the logo of a fruit-and-vegetable distributor. (There was a large stack of papers spilling onto the floor next to it.) 
 It is not a country club, but the offices are lively and full of 20-somethings, many of them recent college graduates -- the director of stores was a music major at Harvard -- attracted at being able to take on significant responsibilities fairly early in their careers, and also by the likelihood that Steve & Barry's will eventually go public. TA Associates, a private-equity firm that backs Eastern Mountain Sports and Jenny Craig, bought a minority stake in 2006.
 ''To be great, you have to have these ridiculous, insane prices, and not sacrifice quality,'' Mr. Shore said. ''The question we constantly ask ourselves is how to hit the price point that even Wal-Mart is not hitting.''
 The most basic dresses at J. Crew start at $58. At American Apparel, they start at $26; at Old Navy, $19.50; and at Forever 21, some styles cost $15.80. The least expensive dress on the Wal-Mart Web site is $14.92. 
 Prices at Steve & Barry's are actually dropping -- the $8.98 threshold was introduced as a holiday promotion last year, but remains with no set expiration, Mr. Prevor said. (At the newest store in Waipahu, Hawaii, which opened last Friday, the highest price is $9.98, reflecting increased shipping costs.)
 Meanwhile, the company's sales at locations open at least a year, a crucial indicator of retail health, have increased more than 20 percent each month since January, he said.
 Outside the Manhattan Mall store this week, several customers said they appreciated the quality and style of the clothes, but over and over they said, ''The prices are unbelievable.''
 ''I have no idea how they do it,'' said Katherynne Ramirez, 24, from the Bronx, who estimated that 35 percent of her closet came from Steve & Barry's. ''The material seems pretty good for the price, so I bought a lot of summer tops. They looked nice.'' 
 None of this sufficiently explains how Steve & Barry's managed to lure a celebrity like Ms. Parker, who, in a now decade-long performance as Carrie Bradshaw on ''Sex and the City,'' helped establish the credibility of binge fashion consumption as a national pastime and made Manolo Blahnik a household name. As a celebrity designer, she could have had her pick of deals, but as a businesswoman, she sensed the possibilities in mass and a change in the public perception toward low-price clothes. 
 ''I had never heard of Steve & Barry's, and I didn't know anyone who had ever heard of them,'' Ms. Parker said. ''I was dubious. But I loved their manifesto and the idea of the marketization of fashion.''
 A year into their collaboration, Ms. Parker has been joined at Steve & Barry's by Ms. Bynes, whose more teenage-oriented label is called Dear, and Venus Williams, whose performance collection is called Eleven.
 For men, there are additional basketball styles named after Ben Wallace, golf clothes from Bubba Watson and a new surf-wear collection from Laird Hamilton. The success of Mr. Marbury's Starbury shoes, the first celebrity style introduced in the store in 2006, then at $14.98, has been heralded as a backlash against $100-plus styles like the Nike Air Jordan. Steve & Barry's, according to estimates, has sold more than 10 million pairs. 
 ''What has changed,'' Ms. Parker said, ''is that now people have bragging rights about what they paid. I admired a woman's pair of pants at a party recently and she said, 'Fourteen dollars! H & M!' It really is, among the people I know, part of what they do now.''
 Mr. Shore and Mr. Prevor again likened the change to a revolution.
 ''When you look at clothing now,'' Mr. Prevor said, ''price is not the arbiter of what is good. It's the clothes themselves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHAT A STEAL: A dress designed (and worn) by Sarah Jessica Parker and sold at Steve & Barry's for $8.98. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.G1)
RETAIL REVOLUTION: ''To be great, you have to have these ridiculous, insane prices, and not sacrifice quality,'' said Steve Shore, left, with Barry Prevor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
STEVE & BARRY AND ... VENUS WILLIAMS
LAIRD HAMILTON
SARAH JESSICA PARKER
STEPHON MARBURY
 AMANDA BYNES (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE & BARRY'S) (pg.G5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); WOMEN (86%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); MUSIC STORES (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); BASKETBALL (71%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (60%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (89%); VENUS WILLIAMS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



25 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Whale Protection Caught in Agency Rivalry, Files Show

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
A federal plan to protect endangered whales along the East Coast has been caught in interagency warfare and held in limbo by the White House, according to documents made public on Wednesday by a Democratic congressman and an environmental group.
 Right whales, which were hunted to near extinction over five centuries, number perhaps 350. Roughly three a year are injured or killed in collisions with oceangoing vessels like containerized cargo ships. 
 The regulation drafted by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration would require ships to cut their speed by 40 percent or more, to 10 knots, near whale feeding and calving grounds.
 The documents released by Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, and the Union of Concerned Scientists, including replies by NOAA scientists to their critics in the Office of the Vice President and the president's Council of Economic Advisers, indicated that the critics wanted to rework the agency's scientific data and weaken the draft regulation.
 The slower speeds would increase shipping costs and might also make it more difficult to steer through rough seas, shipping interests said. 
 Environmental groups and some scientific groups have repeatedly expressed concern that political appointees challenge or sidestep scientific conclusions from federal agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency and the Fish and Wildlife Service. Other regulations have been delayed in the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, part of the White House Office of Management and Budget, or in the originating agencies. 
 On Monday, for example, a judge ordered the Interior Department to release its decision on protecting the polar bear under the Endangered Species Act.
 The documents that Mr. Waxman released on the right whale rule included a sharp rebuttal from the oceanic agency, which is legally responsible for protecting endangered marine species, to the Council of Economic Advisers. 
 After a detailed critique of the council's method of analysis, the oceanic scientists wrote, ''The basic facts remain that there is a direct relationship'' between a vessel's speed and the likelihood of death or serious injury to the whale, and ''at vessel speeds at or below 10 knots, the probability of death/serious injury is greatly reduced.''
 Scott Kraus, vice president for research at the New England Aquarium and editor of ''The Urban Whale,'' a review of the threats to right whales, said Wednesday in an interview that whale mortality from ship collisions primarily involved females. 
 On the trip from the calving grounds off northern Florida to the feeding grounds east of Boston, Mr. Kraus said, ''they basically run the gantlet of all shipping in North America.''
 Slowing ships to 10 knots in those areas ''won't completely eliminate killings, but will eliminate them from the coastal zones and could put this population back on the track to recovery,'' he said.
 In a letter to Susan Dudley, director of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Office of Management and Budget, Mr. Waxman asked why the speed rule had been delayed for more than a year. 
 ''You are supposed to complete your review of a final rule within 90 days,'' he wrote, referring to an executive order that governs Ms. Dudley's office.
 Mr. Waxman added that a document by officials of the oceanic agency said Vice President Dick Cheney's office had raised specific objections to the expert scientific conclusions and that Mr. Cheney's office had said, ''We had no evidence that lowering the speeds of 'large ships' will actually make a difference.'' 
 The oceanic officials added that they stood by their conclusions that lower speeds would benefit right whales. 
 A spokeswoman for the Office of Management and Budget, Jane Lee, wrote in an e-mail message: ''We have received the letter. We're reviewing it. We are confident this longstanding rule-making process will provide an approach that will achieve our shared goals.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A right whale has scars from a ship's propeller, a hazard for the animals in the Atlantic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW ENGLAND AQUARIUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (76%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (74%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); JUDGES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



26 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Starbucks Earnings Sink 21%

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Starbucks, faced with a sharp drop-off in customers, reported on Wednesday that earnings declined 21 percent during the second quarter. 
 Starbucks reported that net income declined to $108.7 million, or 15 cents a share, from $150.8 million, or 19 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. The company said revenue rose 12 percent, to $2.5 billion. 
 The report came just a week after Starbucks, the world's largest coffee chain, warned of lower-than-expected earnings and cut its full-year forecast, citing a decline in quarterly sales and describing the economic environment as the weakest in the company's history. Wall Street analysts had forecast 19 cents a share for the quarter.
 ''Fiscal 2008 is a transitional year for Starbucks and, while our financial results are clearly being impacted by reduced frequency to our U.S. stores, we believe that as we continue to execute on the initiatives generated by our transformation agenda, we will reinvigorate the Starbucks Experience for our customers,'' Howard Schultz, who is chairman, president and chief executive, said in a statement. 
 Mr. Schultz returned as chief executive in January in hopes of turning the company around, replacing James Donald. 
 Shares of Starbucks closed up 3 cents, at $16.23, before the report was issued. 
 Mr. Schultz said the results were heavily influenced by the company's American business, which accounted for 77 percent of total net revenue.
 Starbucks, which had 125 stores when it went public in 1992, now has 15,000 stores in 44 countries. But the company has struggled to maintain its differentiation in the face of growing competition. Most recently, Starbuck's has suffered the effects of the crisis in the housing market, which has put a pinch on sales, particularly in California and Florida. Mr. Schultz said that customers were simply not visiting Starbucks stores at the rate they once did. 
 Mr. Schultz is expected to lay out a turnaround plan in a conference call with financial analysts late Wednesday. Among the many changes Mr. Schultz is expected to unveil in coming months, in addition to cutting costs, is the addition of a line of fruit smoothie drinks, the start of a broad effort to offer healthier drinks and expand beyond coffee beverages. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COFFEE & TEA (76%); RETAILERS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (58%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (79%); JIM DONALD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



27 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times, But Your Lips Look Great

BYLINE: By KAYLEEN SCHAEFER

 BODY:
LAST month, Betsy Stein made a beeline for Bloomingdale's to buy a shirt, but the Nanette Lepore top she found was $280. Ms. Stein, 33, a business manager for a classical music composer in Manhattan, told herself that in the current economic climate, she shouldn't charge it.
 ''With the scare of the downturn,'' she said, ''I decided to cut back on my shopaholic problem and exercise some restraint.''
 But the next day at Sephora, she made a substitute purchase. ''I could buy one or two lipsticks for about $40,'' she said. ''That's far less than $280.'' 
 Ms. Stein's rationale for buying lipstick echoes a theory once proposed by Leonard Lauder, the chairman of Estee Lauder Companies.
 After the terrorist attacks of 2001 deflated the economy, Mr. Lauder noticed that his company was selling more lipstick than usual. He hypothesized that lipstick purchases are a way to gauge the economy. When it's shaky, he said, sales increase as women boost their mood with inexpensive lipstick purchases instead of $500 slingbacks.
 Beauty brands remain true believers in the theory, even though in the last few years the lipstick market has fallen on hard times as its glistening cousin, lip gloss, has had robust sales. 
 With the specter of another recession, brands like Clinique and DuWop Cosmetics are preparing for a big year in lip color, for two reasons.
 First, they would like to see a return to lipstick, which usually costs slightly more than gloss. Second, the companies believe that in down times women will continue to splurge on lip lacquer even as they make do with last season's dress.
 But do economists, and not just companies that need to move a lot of lip color, believe that lipstick sales could skyrocket as the economy tanks? And what's the draw of lipstick in particular for women worried about having to pay as much for gas as they would a handbag? 
 Not only is the lipstick theory plausible, ''it's perfectly consistent with all kinds of economic theory,'' said Richard DeKaser, the chief economist with National City Corporation, a financial holding company and bank in Cleveland. 
 Three sorts of products sell robustly during tough times, said Lou Crandall, the chief economist at Wrightson ICAP, an independent research firm. 
 The first is what economists call traditional inferior goods, what people have to buy when they can no longer afford their favorites. If you're a salmon lover eating tuna casserole, you're chewing on inferior goods. 
 Lipsticks aren't inferior goods, economists say, but they could be small indulgences, an inexpensive treat meant to substitute for a bigger-ticket item. Or lipsticks could also be morale boosters, like Charlie Chaplin films were during the Depression. A warm shade that perfectly matches your skin tone might make you forget how far your 401(k) has tanked. 
 Although this relationship exists, Mr. Lauder was wrong about one thing: counting lipstick purchases won't confirm whether we're in a recession. ''It doesn't surprise me that lipstick sales go up,'' Mr. Crandall said, ''but if I had to choose my top economic indicators to take to a desert island with me, I'm not sure it would make my top 20.'' 
 Not the least because lipstick sales aren't exactly economic indicators used by the news media. 
 ''ABC News samples consumer confidence every week,'' Mr. Crandall said. ''We don't have lipstick sales on a weekly basis. This is because they are more granular. The smaller the economic data becomes, the more volatile it tends to be, and the harder it is to extract the underlying signal.''
 Indeed, lipstick sales for the first 12 weeks of this year ending March 23 don't validate the lipstick theory. Sales of lipstick in supermarkets and drugstores have decreased 3.3 percent compared with the same time period in 2007, according to Information Resources Inc., a market research firm that tracks sales of mass consumer products. Sales of lipstick are also down 13 percent in department stores from the same quarter last year, said Karen Grant, the senior beauty industry analyst for the NPD Group, a market research firm. But the actual decline, Ms. Grant cautioned, is slightly lower because more weeks were counted in 2007 than this year. 
 Still, old hunches die hard. Banking on an economic downturn, Cristina Bartolucci, the creative director of DuWop Cosmetics, introduced Prime Venom, her first matte plumper designed to be worn under lipstick. ''One of the main reasons we came up with this product is that we're in a recession, or a difficult time with the war,'' she said. ''You always think of the classic lipstick and stockings doing well in wartime.'' 
 Prime Venom is the same formula as the company's 1999 best seller, Lip Venom, which claims to inflate your pout without collagen shots. In the last month, Ms. Bartolucci said, Prime Venom's sales have been double that of the original Lip Venom.
 This spring, for the first time, Marissa Shipman, the chief executive of the Balm, a lip gloss brand, included lipsticks in her line. She hopes that Mr. Lauder's theory will pan out for her. For their initial order, retailers like Sephora have ordered twice the amount of the lipstick as they did the glosses she started selling in 2003, Ms. Shipman said. She doesn't have qualms about profiting in an economic downturn, because she's glad she can provide something for $16 that makes women feel good. ''I would feel more guilty if I were taking $400 from someone,'' she said. 
 Ms. Grant suggested beauty companies are engaging in some wishful thinking hoping that if they promote a new wave of lipsticks then customers will come. ''The early adopters of trend are getting onto the lipstick bandwagon and are seeing increases in lipstick sales,'' she said. ''But it's not an overall trend. This is more like a gut feel, like when you say it's time for skirts to come back.'' 
 In the last four years, gloss has increased its market share by 2.5 percent, while lipstick has lost 5.8 percent, according to Information Resources. So to lure gloss-happy customers back to lipstick (which tends to cost more), brands are aping the charms of lip gloss. 
 Last fall, Estee Lauder reformulated its Signature Lipstick by using a blend of oils that had been typically reserved for glosses, and it eliminated the harsher beeswax smell in favor of a subtle fig and vanilla scent. 
 This fall, Clinique plans to add eight shades to its Colour Surge Butter Shine Lipstick line, which is a mashup of lipstick and gloss. ''It's a bridge, for when she wants a more grown-up look,'' said Janet Pardo, the senior vice president for global product development at Clinique. ''We're transitioning people from gloss into that hybrid place.''
 Any woman with a few lines around her lips should be reaching for moist -- not matte -- lipsticks, said Kriss Soterion, the makeup artist who worked with Hillary Clinton before a New Hampshire debate last year. ''No matter how you cut it,'' she said, ''dewy looks young.'' 
 April Lane Benson, a psychologist in Manhattan who works with compulsive spenders, said there are two reasons why women would want lip color more than other affordable pleasures. Lipstick can be applied as many times a day as you'd like. ''It's very primal,'' Dr. Benson said. ''The mouth is an organ of so much pleasure. Kissing is what you do with your lips.''
 Lipstick also helps a woman look poised, even when her bank account is overdrawn. ''When women use lipstick in times of stress,'' Dr. Benson said, ''they're doing it to put forward an image that they are more alive and more vibrant, and not as down in the mouth. It's part of the uniform of desirability and attractiveness. A shirt or a cup of gelato is much farther removed from that.''
 Melissa McQueeney, 34, a fifth-grade teacher in Shelton, Conn., refuses to stop buying lipstick, even though her bills have increased considerably in the last year, mostly because of rising gas prices. Her fiance has a 70-mile commute. 
 ''It's how I freshen up,'' she said. ''It makes me feel feminine, even if I'm in sweats and sneakers.'' Last month, at a Sephora outpost, she chose a $6 gloss over one for $25, and held it up triumphantly as she walked to the register. ''I didn't even try it on,'' she said. ''I'm just splurging.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BANKING ON BAD NEWS: Cristina Bartolucci, creative director of DuWop Cosmetics, has introduced Prime Venom, a lip plumper, to take advantage of these uncertain times.
Ann Feather bought a $22 Vincent Longo lip gloss instead of an $855 Ralph Lauren dress.
Grace Clem on lipstick: ''I'm spending money without really spending money.''
''Gas prices are unbelievable,'' so Melissa McQueeney only indulged herself with a $6 lip gloss. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES
 NATASHA CALZATTI (ABOVE) AND ANNIE TRITT, ALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.G1 and G3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); WOMEN (77%); RECESSION (76%); COSMETICS (75%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%)

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (93%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (63%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (63%)

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (93%); PNC (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (93%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%)

PERSON: LEONARD LAUDER (68%); RALPH LAUREN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



28 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: State Could Save $1 Billion a Year by Consolidating Services, Report Says

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
A state commission is recommending a sweeping consolidation of water services, school districts and other local government agencies across New York, arguing in a report issued on Wednesday that the changes could save taxpayers more than $1 billion a year.
 The recommendations from the commission, appointed last year by Gov. Eliot Spitzer, came as state officials prepared for a new round of dire fiscal forecasts. In a news conference, Gov. David A. Paterson said the anticipated budget shortfall for the next fiscal year would increase to about $5 billion and be even higher in future years. 
 ''We're going to have out-year deficits that are starting to reach numbers that we have never discussed in this state,'' Governor Paterson said.
 With the worsening state financial picture as a backdrop, the commission, headed by Stan Lundine, a former lieutenant governor, made many recommendations to eliminate layers of government and bring more consistency and efficiency to those that remain, in part by eliminating duplications like garbage pickup and tax collection. The report also suggested working toward a single, state-run jail system. 
 The commission identified thousands of local government entities distinct from county, city, town and village governments, including a profusion of ''special districts'' created to provide water, library and other services to the state's sprawling suburbs. Those entities are studded with appointive jobs and many can levy taxes, helping give New York ''arguably the most complex property tax system in the nation,'' according to the commission's final report.
 The report's recommendations were endorsed by Governor Paterson, a Democrat, who said that some of the local boards had become ''patronage mills.'' He called the changes an essential step toward bringing down New York's high property taxes and coping with an economic downturn.
 ''We recognize that this has been talked about before,'' the governor said. ''We recognize that this has been tried before. But we are in an economic time that may be unparalleled.''
 Some of the recommendations, however, were quickly criticized by labor unions and school superintendents, whose ranks would bear the brunt of some of the changes.
 ''The report unfortunately presents a one-sided point of view on how local governments can achieve cost savings in New York State, and unfairly places the burden of solving the cost issue squarely on the shoulders of working men and women, and in particular, our public workforce,'' said Denis M. Hughes, the president of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O.
 The commission recommended centralizing at the county level functions like tax collection and emergency dispatch, encouraging school districts and village courts to consolidate back-office functions and ending compensation and perks for special district commissioners.
 ''Taxes are high because governments spend money,'' said Howard S. Weitzman, a commission member and the comptroller for Nassau County, which has among the most special districts in the state. ''And therefore, the less government we have, the less money we'll be spending.''
 The commission also proposed requiring more local government and school district employees to make contributions to their health insurance plans, a controversial step that the commissioners said was necessary to slow the increase in local government spending on benefits. And under legislation proposed by the commission and supported by Governor Paterson, the state commissioner of education would be granted the power to order school districts to consolidate.
 Most of the changes will require approval by the Legislature. A few, like giving localities new freedom to share services, will require a constitutional amendment.
 At a news conference on Wednesday, Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, said he supported some consolidation.
 ''Everything that we can do to help minimize the cost structure in New York State is critically important,'' Mr. Bruno, a Republican, said. ''It starts at the local level.''
 One small piece of good fiscal news did emerge on Wednesday. Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo announced that his office's Medicaid fraud unit had nearly doubled the funds it recovered last year, to $112.5 million from $59.4 million in 2006.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Governor David A. Paterson at news conference on Wednesday in Albany. Stan Lundine, at lectern, discussed findings of the Local Government Efficiency and Competitiveness Commission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); WOMEN WORKERS (67%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); PRISONS (52%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



29 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: McCain Health Plan Could Mean Higher Tax

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK and MICHAEL COOPER. 
Kevin Sack reported from Atlanta, and Michael Cooper from Allentown.

DATELINE: ALLENTOWN, Pa. 

 BODY:
Though Senator John McCain has promised to not raise taxes, his campaign acknowledged Wednesday that the health plan he outlined this week would have the effect of increasing tax payments for some workers, primarily those with high incomes and expensive health plans.
 The campaign cannot yet project how many taxpayers might see their taxes go up, said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Mr. McCain's top domestic policy adviser. But Mr. Holtz-Eakin said in an interview that for some, Mr. McCain's health care tax credits would not be large enough to compensate for his proposal to eliminate the tax breaks afforded to workers with employer-provided health benefits. 
 On stops in Florida and Pennsylvania this week, Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, has emphasized a free-market approach that he said would lower health care costs and make insurance affordable.
 To do so he is proposing a major tax change that he hopes will make the insurance marketplace more competitive and less expensive in part by encouraging more people to buy health insurance on their own instead of receiving it from their employers. 
 The 71 percent of insured Americans who get their health coverage through their employers now enjoy a significant advantage because the money spent by employers on their health coverage is excluded from their taxable income. If employers chose to pay that share of a worker's compensation as wages rather than benefits, the income would be taxable.
 The exclusion costs the federal government more than $212 billion a year in income and payroll taxes, according to Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation. That is more than the cost of the deductibility of home mortgage interest, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. 
 The tax treatment of health benefits has been criticized as both discriminatory and regressive, and some analysts believe it encourages workers to buy more coverage than they need, driving up health costs. 
 To end the disadvantage to those who do not buy insurance through employers, Mr. McCain proposes to eliminate the exclusion of health benefits from taxable income. In exchange, he would provide refundable tax credits of $2,500 to single people and of $5,000 to families, with the goal of stoking competition in the individual insurance market. The elimination of the exclusion would generate $3.6 trillion over 10 years, according to the McCain campaign, and that money would pay for the tax credits.
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin calculated that workers in the top income tax bracket would have to pay more in taxes if their employers have been contributing at least $14,285 toward a family insurance premium. Nationwide, the average cost of a family policy is $12,106, with employers paying $8,824 of that amount.
 While the change would primarily affect those with gold-plated insurance policies, health analysts point out that middle-income workers with conventional coverage could conceivably pay more in regions where insurance costs are high. Over time, that might depend on how the tax credits are adjusted for inflation, a detail Mr. McCain has not discussed.
 Gary Claxton, a vice president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health policy research group, said that about 6 percent of insured employees worked for companies where the average employer contribution met the threshold set by Mr. Holtz-Eakin. Mr. Claxton said he could not project how many of those workers are in the top tax bracket and would pay higher taxes.
 Interviewed on his campaign bus Wednesday afternoon, Mr. McCain said: ''I'm giving them a $5,000 refundable tax credit. I believe that that takes care of the overwhelming majority of Americans.''
 Charlie Black, a senior adviser to his campaign, who was also on the bus, acknowledged that some would pay more. ''It would be a very, very small percentage of people,'' Mr. Black said, ''and they would be people who are getting a plan that's way beyond what regular people have.'' 
 Mr. McCain has said he would maintain the Bush-era income tax cuts and support other tax reductions, and he has pledged repeatedly that he would not raise taxes. ''Do you mean none?'' Sean Hannity, the Fox News host, asked in a March 16 interview.
 ''None,'' Mr. McCain replied.
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin said Mr. McCain's health proposal does not contradict his tax pledge because the government would gain the same amount of revenue by ending the exclusion as it would lose by granting the tax credits.
 ''He has said that he is in favor of a tax code that is fairer, simpler, flatter, more pro-growth and more internationally competitive,'' Mr. Holtz-Eakin said. ''There's nothing about revenue-neutral tax reforms that's inconsistent with his position.'' 
 Some scholars say otherwise. ''Anyway you cut it, if you make health benefits subject to taxation, that's a tax increase,'' said Jonathan B. Oberlander, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. ''You can argue with lots of merit that it's a responsible increase, that it takes away an inequitable exclusion, but it's still a tax increase.''
 On the Democratic side, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York also wants to change the tax treatment of employee health benefits, though not as radically as Mr. McCain. She has proposed limiting the exclusion for those earning more than $250,000, about 2 percent of workers. Under her plan, which would raise an estimated $2 billion to support universal health coverage, high earners would pay taxes on the part of employer-provided health benefits that exceed a standard policy. Mrs. Clinton has not defined where that limit would be set. 
 Her Democratic rival, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, has not proposed changing the tax exclusion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain, followed by his adviser Steve Schmidt, leaving his campaign plane Wednesday in Allentown, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); TAX LAW (91%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



30 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Hoosier Time

BYLINE: By PORTER SHREVE. 
Porter Shreve is the author of the forthcoming novel ''When the White House Was Ours.''

DATELINE: West Lafayette, Ind. 

 BODY:
With just days to go before the Indiana and North Carolina primaries, the Op-Ed page asked writers from each state to report on the race. Here are their first dispatches. 
 IF I tell childhood friends back East that I teach at Purdue University, they invariably ask, ''Where's that?'' Few can locate us on a map and even fewer know that Purdue paid for the plane that Amelia Earhart tried to fly around the globe or that 22 astronauts graduated from here, including Neil Armstrong. 
 But thanks to the collective indecision of Democratic primary voters, the country is getting a lesson in Indiana geography. The muddy Wabash River divides the college town of West Lafayette from the industrial city of Lafayette. The metropolitan area, population 183,000, is a microcosm of Indiana. On one side of the river, Purdue engineers study vehicle dynamics; on the other side, Wabash National workers assemble trucks. 
 You'd think based on the results from other Rust Belt states that the only thing the town side and the gown side share is the occasional chicken-broth smell emanating from the Tate & Lyle plant. West Lafayette should be Obama country and Lafayette Clinton country. Yet when Senator Obama came to town on April 10, he spoke about economic woes at the high school on the working-class side. One of my colleagues, a self-described ''child of the '60s,'' attended and told me that Mr. Obama represents a new paradigm: ''It's time to give over power to younger people and see what they do with it.'' 
 When Bill Clinton stopped on March 24, however, he emphasized education at West Lafayette High School. A senior at the school told me afterward she had just been studying John F. Kennedy and she had been leaning toward Mr. Obama but switched allegiances after the former president's speech. ''I'm an idealist, too,'' she said. ''But we need someone who knows how to play the game.''
 People who went to the events remarked first and foremost on the amazing diversity (well, class diversity, anyway) of the crowds and said they knew lots of folks voting outside of their presumed demographic. I called a friend who grew up in small-town Indiana and now lives in Pittsburgh and asked her why Mr. Obama was leading here when he lost so badly in Pennsylvania. She reminded me that Indiana has a spirit of looking into the future. We sent a man to the moon, didn't we?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); CITIES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%)

COMPANY: WABASH NATIONAL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (91%)

TICKER: WNC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336212 TRUCK TRAILER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3715 TRUCK TRAILERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (71%); JOHN F KENNEDY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); EARTH'S MOON (72%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



31 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Appeals Court Rejects City's Suit to Curb Guns

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
A federal appeals court threw out New York City's longstanding lawsuit against the gun industry on Wednesday, ruling that a relatively new federal law protects gun makers against such suits.
 The appellate ruling killed perhaps the boldest avenue by which the city has sought to stem the flow of illegal guns into New York: a claim that gun makers and distributors have knowingly flooded illicit, underground markets with their weapons.
 The city's suit, filed in 2000, was upheld in December 2005 by Judge Jack B. Weinstein of Federal District Court in Brooklyn. Judge Weinstein allowed it to move forward, despite protests by gun makers like Beretta U.S.A., Browning Arms, Colt Manufacturing, Glock and Smith & Wesson, all of which cited a federal law that had been passed two months earlier. 
 That law, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, banned all suits against the gun industry except those in which a plaintiff could prove that gun makers had violated state or federal statutes in their sales and marketing practices.
 The city contended that the gun makers did exactly that, by failing to monitor retail dealers closely enough and, therefore, by allowing guns to end up in the hands of criminals. As a result, the city said, the manufacturers had created a ''condition that negatively affects the public health or safety'' and, thus, had violated New York State's public-nuisance law. It requested an injunction.
 But the Second Circuit Court of Appeals rejected that argument, ruling that the nuisance law did not constitute a permissible exception under the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act. It reversed Judge Weinstein's decision and ordered the suit dismissed. 
 One judge on the three-judge panel, Robert A. Katzmann, dissented, arguing that the New York State Court of Appeals should have been asked to decide whether the state law was an exception under the federal law or not. 
 Under the administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the city opened a second front in its fight against illegal guns by suing 27 individual gun dealers across the country in 2006. Announcing the first of those suits with great fanfare and emotion and a City Hall news conference, Mr. Bloomberg called the gun shops ''rogue dealers'' and ''the worst of the worst.''
 In a statement released on Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg expressed disappointment in the decision but said it would have no effect on the suits still pending against the dealers, which claimed a clear violation of gun-sale laws. ''Regardless of this ruling, we will continue our fight against illegal guns full-bore -- in the courtrooms, on the streets, and in Congress,'' he said.
 Twenty of the 27 gun dealers named in the city's two related suits in 2006 have already settled with the city, according to one of their lawyers, John Renzulli. Cases against two other defendants were dismissed, and two dealers lost their businesses. Of the three remaining cases, one is scheduled for trial this month and the other two in September -- before, of all people, Judge Weinstein, Mr. Renzulli said.
 Mr. Renzulli also represents the gun makers in the case decided on Wednesday. He said he doubted that the appellate ruling would have much of an effect on the dealer cases but added that it was too early to be certain.
 ''The reaction is very positive at this point,'' Mr. Renzulli said. ''We're obviously elated that the Second Circuit has seen it our way.'' 
 Gun makers have been sued dozens of times by city and state officials across the country, but no suit has ever been successful. New York City's suit against the industry, in fact, went further toward a trial than most, said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the National Rifle Association.
 The city of Gary, Ind., has so far been able to pursue its own case against the gun industry in the Indiana state court system. When he was New York State's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer tried to sue gun makers in the New York courts, but the suit was dismissed in 2003 when a state appellate court ruled that there was no reasonable legal claim in his complaint.
 In July 2003, after a six-week federal trial, Judge Weinstein dismissed a similar suit against the gun industry brought by the N.A.A.C.P. It had claimed that the practices of the industry amounted to a public nuisance because they permitted guns to fall into the hands of criminals.
 Judge Weinstein rejected the suit for technical reasons but declared that carelessness and a lack of precautions among some in the business fostered an illegal market in handguns. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has made the fight against illegal guns a signature effort of his second term in office. He has gone to Washington to lobby lawmakers and has appeared at fund-raising dinners for the likes of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, calling illegal guns ''scourges to our society.''
 Michael A. Cardozo, the city's corporation counsel, said the city was analyzing the decision to see whether it would appeal to the United States Supreme Court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (91%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NUISANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (75%); FIREARMS WHOLESALERS (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

COMPANY: SMITH & WESSON CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT A KATZMANN (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



32 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: While Clinton Focuses, Obama Is Distracted

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Adam Nagourney and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Bloomington, Ind.

DATELINE: LAFAYETTE, Ind. 

 BODY:
Pumped up and focused, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is putting in 16-hour days in Indiana this week as if she -- and not her embattled rival, Senator Barack Obama -- needs a campaign-changing moment in Tuesday's primary here.
 In fact, Indiana is a must-win state for her. Not only is Mrs. Clinton behind in accumulating presidential delegates, she now also faces a new test: Showing that she can seize the opportunity, created by the public fracas between Mr. Obama and the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., to win over a cross-section of Democrats in this broadly representative state.
 With Mr. Obama politically bruised by his former pastor, the Indiana and North Carolina primaries on Tuesday are perhaps the best chance yet for Mrs. Clinton to prove that she is the stronger general-election candidate. To that end, she appeared on Fox News on Wednesday to try to broaden her electoral reach, and tweaked Mr. Obama for taking so long to break with Mr. Wright. 
 ''I think he made his views clear, finally, that he disagreed, and I think that's what he had to do,'' Mrs. Clinton said of Mr. Obama's denunciation of the pastor on Tuesday. 
 Going further than she ever has before, she also called Mr. Wright's comments -- including the suggestion that the United States has committed terrorism -- ''outrageous and offensive'' and ''so far out it is hard to even understand and take seriously.'' 
 Polls show the Indiana race to be a statistical dead heat.
 While Clinton advisers say that Mrs. Clinton needs to carry the state to start trying to catch up with Mr. Obama's lead in delegates, some political analysts said that even a virtual tie would be a setback because it would show she could not beat Mr. Obama when he was struggling.
 ''For any of this to matter for her, she has to win Indiana,'' said Dan Gerstein, a Democratic communications consultant who supports Mr. Obama but is not working for him. Referring to Mr. Obama, he added, ''The political winds sailing at his back are incredibly powerful.''
 On Wednesday, however, Mr. Obama was not able to shift smoothly back to his priorities, jobs and pocketbook concerns -- two issues that Mrs. Clinton has been mining in Indiana and North Carolina since Monday while he has been distracted by Mr. Wright.
 Mr. Obama visited with workers, toured a factory, held a town-hall-style meeting, and announced new endorsements from three superdelegates (Mrs. Clinton announced two). Yet as the day unfolded, the Wright matter cast a long shadow.
 At his town-hall-style meeting, where the focus was supposed to be on economic worries of voters, the first question from the audience was about high gasoline prices -- and the second was about ''how much of a toll'' the Wright issue had taken on Mr. Obama.
 ''The situation with Reverend Wright was difficult, I won't lie to you,'' said Mr. Obama, who again denounced his former pastor's remarks. ''It's important for the American people to know who I am, what my values are, and what I stand for. And I don't stand for some of the things that Reverend Wright said.''
 As the campaign dispatched supporters and surrogates in hope of containing any political damage, Mr. Obama was joined in Indiana by his wife, Michelle. The couple also conducted network and local television interviews, trying to regain control of their political message.
 ''What we want to do now,'' Mr. Obama said, ''is to make sure that this doesn't continue to be a perpetual distraction.''
 At least this week, the distraction has been not only perpetual but potentially damaging. 
 Some superdelegates -- the party leaders who will help decide the nomination -- said on Wednesday that the Wright controversy had indeed raised questions about Mr. Obama's strengths as a possible nominee.
 Chris Redfern, the chairman of the OhioDemocratic Party, who is uncommitted, said Mr. Obama's delay in responding to Mr. Wright might have hurt his standing with many voters -- in particular, so-called Reagan Democrats who live in places like Toledo.
 ''Now is not a time to parse statements, now is not a time to worry about what happened 10 or 15 years ago or whether Reverend Wright was a great pastor or spiritual adviser,'' he said. ''Now is the time to turn your back on Reverend Wright.''
 Other delegates interviewed seemed split over the candidate's efforts at damage control. 
 ''If he wins North Carolina, particularly by a decent margin, and if he is successful or close in Indiana, I think that will go a long way to erasing any remaining doubt about him among superdelegates,'' said Gordon Fischer, a top Iowa Democrat who supports Mr. Obama.
 Representative Baron P. Hill, an Indiana Democrat and a superdelegate, was one of the new supporters for Mr. Obama announced on Wednesday. He said Mr. Obama's denunciation of Mr. Wright had impressed him as ''a strength of character and commitment to our nation that transcends the personal.''
 Mr. Hill's endorsement could be particularly potent because his district is more conservative and potentially a swing area in the general election. Because of his influence, Mr. Hill immediately found himself under fire by the National Republican Congressional Committee, which issued a statement calling the endorsement ''an affront to Indiana voters'' given Mr. Obama's relatively liberal voting record. 
 In another sign of trouble for Mr. Obama, he and Mr. Wright also became central figures in a television commercial in a Mississippi Congressional race. On Wednesday, Greg Davis, a Republican candidate for the First Congressional District seat in North Mississippi, broadcast an advertisement trying to link his Democratic rival, Travis Childers, to Mr. Obama and his former pastor. They are facing one another in a runoff election on May 13.
 ''Travis Childers -- he took Obama's endorsement over our conservative values,'' the advertisement says. ''Conservatives can't trust Travis Childers.''
 The commercial prompted the Democratic candidate to distance himself from Mr. Obama. The race, Mr. Childers said, ''is not about a senator from Illinois or a pastor from Chicago.''
 Such developments have privately delighted Clinton advisers. For months they had been talking up Mr. Wright with superdelegates, but this week they eased off and displayed a lighter touch -- in part because the Wright-Obama dynamic has grown so toxic that top Democrats, including the superdelegates who will help decide the nomination, are bringing it up themselves.
 Clinton advisers have not held a bash-Obama conference call for a week now -- after months when they held near-daily calls with reporters to pounce on Mr. Obama about everything, including Mr. Wright.
 Mr. Gerstein and others said Mrs. Clinton had handled the Obama-Wright mess extremely well, saying nothing to take the spotlight away from the controversy and staying focused on her messages about job creation and high gasoline prices -- two matters of strong interest here.
 ''She has handled this nicely and is well positioned for Indiana, which is important,'' said former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, who is neutral in the race. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at a public forum Wednesday at the Duneland Falls Steelworkers Union Hall in Portage, Ind. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SUPERDELEGATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (99%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



33 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 517 words

 BODY:
THE ECONOMY STAGNATES ...Consumer spending advanced by only 1 percent in the first quarter, as Americans cut back on a wide variety of discretionary purchases. 
 ... AND THE FED REACTS The Federal Reserve reduced short-term interest rates, bringing the federal funds rate to 2 percent from 2.25 percent, the lowest level since November 2004. [C1.] 
 CONTENT REMAINS KING Time Warner said it would spin off its cable company, essentially shedding the distribution pipeline that had underpinned much of the company's fortune, and focus on two core content businesses: the Warner Bros. movie studio and Turner Networks. [C1.]
 PINCHING PENNIES As inflation in Europe mixes with long stagnant wages, families that once enjoyed a vaunted quality of life are cutting back on extras. [C1.]
 ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIP An environmental advocacy group is joining with a private equity firm to refine existing measurements of corporate environmental performance. [C1.]
 PICTURE-PERFECT A new technology called organic light emitting diode offers a picture so amazing, it makes plasma and L.C.D. look like cave drawings. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 A SUITOR RETURNS In an escalating bidding war for Newsday, Cablevision is preparing a $650 million offer for the Long Island-based newspaper. [C2.]
 EXECUTIVE CHARGED A former executive at Monster Worldwide, the job recruitment Web site, was accused of securities fraud and conspiracy in connection to a backdating scheme. [C2.]
 G.M. POSTS A LOSS Despite a rise in automotive profit, General Motors posted a first-quarter loss of $3.25 billion, which included a $1.45 billion write-down in the value of its stake in GMAC. [C4.]
 BITTER TASTE Starbucks, the world's largest coffee chain, reported that second-quarter earnings fell 28 percent, as the company struggled with a drop-off in customers. [C4.]
 MEDICAL CUTBACKS A commission in Michigan said it would allow only one hospital in the state to spend $100 million or more to provide a new form of radiation treatment for cancer. [C4.]
 CHIP ADVANCEMENT Scientists at Hewlett-Packard say they have designed a device that can be used to build dense computer memory chips that use far less power than today's chips. [C4.]
 FROSTY RESPONSE Lawmakers and Bush administration officials gave a chilly reception to a plan to let the Treasury Department lend directly to homeowners to help ease the housing crisis. [C5.]
 S.E.C. SUES MAYOR The Securities and Exchange Commission accused the mayor of Birmingham, Ala., and a banker of defrauding Jefferson County and municipal bond investors. [C6.]
 GETTING MORE BARS Carriers and electronics manufacturers are offering ways to get better cellphone reception anywhere in your house. Basics. [C9.]
 EXPLORING ALTERNATIVES Microsoft's board of directors met to consider a range of options in the company's attempted takeover of Yahoo, including whether to raise its offer. [C10.]
 HOLLYWOOD TALKS DRAG A statement from the bargaining group for Hollywood's production companies made it appear unlikely that any deal with the actors guild would happen soon. [C13.]

GRAPHIC: GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); MAYORS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (84%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); BONDS (72%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (71%); COFFEE & TEA (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (68%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (67%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (66%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (65%); CONSPIRACY (65%); RADIOLOGY (62%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (61%); CANCER (61%); MEMORY CHIPS (61%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (82%); GM (NYSE) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



34 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Pastor Controversy and Loss in Pennsylvania Take Toll on Obama, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER and MEGAN THEE; Marjorie Connelly, Marina Stefan and Dalia Sussman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama's aura of inevitability in the battle for the Democratic presidential nomination has diminished after his loss in the Pennsylvania primary and amid the furor over his former pastor, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. 
 The poll was conducted Friday through Tuesday, largely before Mr. Obama's news conference on Tuesday, in which he denounced his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., and may not have fully captured the impact of the controversy or Mr. Obama's response.
 But the survey found that Mr. Obama, whose lead in the race for the delegates needed to secure the nomination has given him a commanding position over Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton since February, is now perceived to be in a much tighter fight. Fifty-one percent of Democratic primary voters say they expect Mr. Obama to win their party's nomination, down from 69 percent a month ago. Forty-eight percent of Democrats say he is the candidate with the best chance of beating Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee, down from 56 percent a month ago. 
 Mr. Obama, of Illinois, still holds an edge over Mrs. Clinton, of New York, on several key measures; for example, 46 percent of the Democratic primary voters said he remained their choice for the nomination, while 38 percent preferred Mrs. Clinton, down from 43 percent last month, and she has lost support among men in recent weeks. Mr. Obama also has an advantage over Mrs. Clinton in ratings on honesty and integrity and in being less beholden to special interest groups. 
 But a month of upheaval -- including a nearly 10-point loss to Mrs. Clinton in Pennsylvania -- has taken a toll, and not just on Mr. Obama: 56 percent of Democrats described their party as divided. In contrast, 60 percent of Republicans see their party as unified, a striking turnaround from the Republican turmoil at the start of the primary season.
 Adding to the volatility is the economy. Anxiety over that issue, already high a month ago, has continued to climb. More than 4 in 10 voters cited the economy as the one issue they want the candidates to address, up from about 30 percent in a CBS News Poll in mid-March. (Only the war, cited by 17 percent, came close.) 
 Democrats see no early end to the Obama-Clinton battle, the poll found. About 7 in 10 Democratic voters predict that their party's nominee will not be decided before the convention in August. And a plurality of voters say this will eventually hurt their party's chances against Mr. McCain.
 ''I don't think either one of them would ever concede,'' Andrew Antonucci, a 66-year-old Democrat and retired firefighter from Arlington, Mass., said in a follow-up interview. ''It'll go down to the wire.''
 Robert Mobley, 28, a Democrat and motor coach operator in Orlando, Fla., said: ''People can't figure out who they want to choose. Sadly, I don't think it's really a political issue. I think it's more like a 'what kind of history do we want to set?' issue. Do we want to break the race barrier or the gender barrier?''
 Still, there is resistance to the idea of party leaders stepping in to resolve the fight. Even among Democrats who said a lengthy battle would hurt the party, a majority said the contest should continue until one candidate clearly wins the delegate count.
 The poll was conducted as Mr. Wright dominated political news with a series of speeches and appearances; among other incendiary claims, he suggested that the United States was attacked by terrorists because it had itself engaged in terrorism.
 The nationwide telephone poll was conducted with 1,065 adults, 956 of them registered voters; it has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points over all, and plus or minus five percentage points among those who say they have voted or will vote in a Democratic primary or caucus.
 The survey suggests a very competitive race this November regardless of whom the Democrats nominate. In a head-to-head race between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain, both candidates are backed by 45 percent of the registered voters. In a race between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain, 48 percent back Mrs. Clinton and 43 percent support Mr. McCain.
 The weakening economy showed up in the poll in personal ways: As food and gas prices soar, more Americans say they are having a hard time saving or buying extras. Thirty-eight percent said they could do so in February, while just 27 percent said so in the latest poll.
 President Bush continues to get low marks on his overall job performance, with just 21 percent approving of his handling of the economy. Given those ratings, Mr. McCain faces a political challenge in establishing his own identity: about half of all voters say they expect him to continue Mr. Bush's policies if elected, while 1 in 5 say his policies will be even more conservative. 
 The challenge facing Mr. McCain also shows up on foreign policy: a majority of voters said they preferred that the next president try to end the war in Iraq within the next few years; they overwhelmingly said it was more important to have a nominee who was flexible about withdrawing the troops than someone committed to staying in Iraq until the United States succeeds.
 For the Democrats, supporters of Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton are digging in, with two-thirds in each camp saying they ''strongly support'' their candidate. But Democrats are open to the idea of a Clinton-Obama or an Obama-Clinton ticket. About 6 in 10 Democrats said they would like to see the winner take the other candidate as a running mate.
 Each of the three presidential candidates has clear strengths and weaknesses. More voters have confidence in Mrs. Clinton's and Mr. McCain's ability to ''wisely'' handle an international crisis than feel that way about Mr. Obama. Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain, on the other hand, get higher ratings than Mrs. Clinton when it comes to ''having more honesty and integrity than most people in public life.''
 And the two Democrats edge out Mr. McCain when it comes to caring about the needs and problems of average Americans.
 Republicans are already trying to portray Mr. Obama as a liberal who is outside the mainstream of American values, but the poll suggests that -- so far, at least -- he is not viewed that way by most Americans. Nearly two-thirds of registered voters said they believed he shared their values, about the same number who felt that way about Mr. McCain (58 percent said Mrs. Clinton shared their values).
 But Mr. Obama has vulnerabilities. Only 29 percent of registered voters said they considered him ''very patriotic,'' compared with 40 percent who described Mrs. Clinton that way. Mr. McCain, a former prisoner of war, was considered ''very patriotic'' by 70 percent of the registered voters.
 The underlying political landscape continues to favor the Democrats, despite their divisions. Over all, 52 percent said they had a favorable opinion of the Democratic Party, compared with 33 percent who said that about the Republican Party.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ALL VOTERS RATE THE CANDIDATES Graph showing how voters rated the presidential candidates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



35 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: In Smaller Numbers, Marchers Seek Immigrants' Rights

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Contributing reporting were Ana Facio Contreras in Los Angeles, C.J. Hughes in New York, J. Miner in Milwaukee and Katie Zezima in Boston.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Thousands of immigrants and their supporters marched in several cities on Thursday to demand civil rights at a time when crackdowns against illegal immigrants are rising.
 The May Day demonstrations were significantly smaller than in previous years, and gone were calls for a nationwide boycott of businesses and work, as protest leaders had urged last year. The Spanish-language D.J.'s who had heavily promoted previous marches stuck largely to their regular programming. And disagreements among advocates over the best approach to winning legal status for illegal immigrants had diminished organizing firepower, with many groups turning their attention to voter registration and citizenship drives.
 In many cities, including New York, Chicago, Houston and Los Angeles, crowds were a small fraction of those in previous years, with few people outside protest areas even aware that marches were under way. 
 Some supporters said they had lost a rallying cry in the stalled effort in Congress to revamp immigration law. At the same time, with the government stepping up border and immigration enforcement, a cloud of fear has settled over immigrants who were worried that the rallies would lead to more sweeps.
 Milwaukee had one of the more robust turnouts, with thousands of people gathering, as they did last year. Protesters called on the presidential candidates, each of whom has supported Congressional efforts to allow a way for certain illegal immigrants to gain legal status, to make immigration issues a priority.
 ''We want a commitment from the three presidential candidates to pass humane immigration reform in the first 100 days in office,'' said Christine Neumann-Ortiz, director of Voces de la Frontera, the main organization behind the Milwaukee march.
 In Los Angeles, where riot police officers beat and shoved demonstrators and journalists last year, some marchers were concerned about trouble, though across the nation the marches were largely peaceful.
 ''Today the police didn't bring their batons,'' Jorge Reyes called out in Spanish from a truck in downtown Los Angeles. ''Today they came in peace to help us legalize the 12 million immigrants in this country.''
 Messages on T-shirts and signs and protest leaders with bullhorns demanded an end to immigration raids that have led to an increasing number of deportations. The United States deported 280,000 people last year, a 44 percent increase over the previous year.
 Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, who has called on the Department of Homeland Security to halt most workplace raids, joined business and labor leaders on Wednesday to announce the results of a study that found the raids harmful to the economy. The study said 50 percent or more of workers in some local industries were in the country illegally, and it projected great harm to the region if businesses closed or moved because of the immigration sweeps.
 Supporters of tighter controls on immigration said the rallies had done little but energize their backers. Leaders of NumbersUSA, one of the larger groups advocating a clampdown on illegal immigration, urged its members to call members of Congress and use the rallies to help make their case.
 ''The marchers say suspend the rule of law and reward illegality,'' said Roy Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, which says its membership has swelled to more than 600,000 from 112,000 three years ago.
 ''Our callers say what your constituents really want is enforcement,'' Mr. Beck added. ''We want to take away the jobs magnet and basically create an inhospitable environment for immigration law breakers so more and more will decide to go home or not come.''
 Counterdemonstrators appeared at some rallies, including in Boston, where the police had to separate demonstrators who became embroiled in profanity-laced exchanges.
 Though meager, the crowds were often festive and melded a variety of causes. A rally in Union Square Park in Manhattan drew several hundred people invoking socialism, police violence and Sept. 11 conspiracy theories, in addition to immigrant rights. 
 Lisa Melendez, a community-college librarian from Long Island, said she attended the Union Square rally to advocate legalization for her students, many of whom are Mexican or Ecuadorean.
 ''For young women, it's especially difficult, because you study so hard to get an engineering degree and then you end up having to baby sit or clean houses,'' Ms. Melendez said as she stood by five students who had come with her.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOS ANGELES: Demonstrators downtown at the May Day march. Police beat and shoved protesters last year, but the procession was peaceful this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MILWAUKEE: The turnout, one of the more robust, was about as strong as it was in previous years, with thousands gathering.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WOOD/THE MILWAUKEE JOURNAL SENTINEL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
NEW YORK: Protesters at Union Square Park, where the rally drew several hundred people invoking several causes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
WASHINGTON: Sonia Umanzor, left, of Takoma Park, Md., and Delia Alvarez, of Manassas, Va., at the rally, near the Capitol.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 CHICAGO: Marchers across the country said they were seeking civil rights for immigrants at a time of rising crackdowns.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BANKS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); DEPORTATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RIOTS (77%); BOYCOTTS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); RESEARCH REPORTS (65%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



36 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; HAVENS BEDFORD, N.Y.; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Porsches and the Jaguars, a Homey Feeling

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
ALONG skinny two-lane country roads, behind well-maintained stone walls, padlocked gates and trees that loom like sentries, the part-time residents of Bedford, harried hedge fund managers and entrepreneurs from Manhattan among them -- can kick off their shiny wingtips and shut out the hubbub of modern life. 
 There, on country estates about 40 miles from Manhattan, the weekenders savor what one of them, Elinor Deutsch, a New York City interior designer, calls ''that rare 'aha' moment of complete quiet, privacy and peace.'' 
 Such times prove, perhaps, that money can occasionally buy happiness. With prices for four-acre (and larger) estates as high as $18 million, Bedford has become a second-home destination favored by well-heeled New Yorkers seeking a weekend refuge that feels far away from it all but really isn't, local real estate agents say. 
 About an hour by car or train from Midtown Manhattan, Bedford, in northeast Westchester County, includes the hamlets of Bedford, Bedford Hills and Katonah. It dates to 1680, when settlers bought the land from local Indians. 
 Despite recent changes -- encroaching suburbia, the divvying up of vast tracts to create estates and the growing number of Porsches and Jaguars zipping along the town's back roads -- Bedford has kept its homespun charm.
 That simple grace is especially noticeable near the Village Green, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and hosts informal picnics and the local historical society's auctions, among other events. 
 Mrs. Deutsch -- who also owns Antiques & Interiors, a shop in nearby Pound Ridge -- and her husband, Jerome, a commercial real estate investor, spend three and a half days each week in their apartment on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan and the rest of the time in Bedford. The couple, whose children are grown, own a four-bedroom Colonial on four acres that overlooks a small lake that they bought for $785,000 from Regis Philbin 14 years ago. (Three-fourths of the residential property in Bedford is zoned for lots of four acres or more.)
 While the region attracts many empty-nesters like the Deutsches, it also draws younger families with school-age children, among them, Madelyn and Allen Adamson, who split their time between the Upper East Side and Pound Ridge, a town tucked next to Bedford.
 Real estate agents say they market the two towns as a single area to potential second-home buyers; the main difference is that two-acre lots are more plentiful in Pound Ridge, so houses can cost less. ''But in most other ways, they're one and the same community,'' said Cynthia Jaffee, an associate broker for Houlihan Lawrence in Bedford.
 The Scene
 At Antiques & Tools of Business and Kitchen in Pound Ridge, a tumbledown store alongside an outside yard chock-full of old and not-so-old household items, area residents like Richard Gere and Martha Stewart are sometimes seen picking over the goods. The store's owner, Joan Silbersher, an unofficial chronicler of the area's social life, said the style in and around Bedford is low-key. Everyone, including celebrities, shops in jeans and T-shirts, she said.
 Bedford and Pound Ridge's long list of well-known residents notwithstanding -- Glenn Close and Ralph Lauren live there, too -- anonymity is prized. One weekender, a rich business executive who declined to give his name, said that he recently ''bumped into'' Ms. Close at Bedford's post office. He said she was wearing a trench coat and dark glasses. ''No one, including me, likes to be high-profile around here,'' he added.
 Mr. and Mrs. Adamson, who own a four-bedroom Colonial on two acres in Pound Ridge and who have two children under 10, spend summers and weekends there. Mr. Adamson declined to say what they paid for the house three and a half years ago, but another four-bedroom house on two acres in their neighborhood is on the market for nearly $1.78 million.
 The Adamsons' children and their friends set up a table along a sidewalk in Pound Ridge's small business district one Sunday to sell lemonade for charity. ''The idea is to give our children a small-town experience,'' Ms. Adamson said, ''and balance out life in Manhattan.''
 Many residents are drawn to the region's outdoor activities. There's a 4,700-acre county park -- the Ward Pound Ridge Reservation -- and a network of trails that weave in and around Bedford. The Bedford Riding Lanes Association, a nonprofit organization dating to 1920, maintains 100 miles of horse trails and dirt roads. 
 For shopping and dining, Katonah's small business district and Scotts Corners in Pound Ridge serve as the retail centers, with quaint shops, like Sgaglio's Marketplace, a favorite for its meats and cheeses, and restaurants.
 For those once-in-a-while formal occasions, Emily Shaw's Inn at Pound Ridge has a dining room with wide-beamed ceilings, stone fireplaces, wood-plank floors, carved Louis IV chocolate-colored damask chairs and blue silk drapes. By contrast, in Katonah, the Blue Dolphin Ristorante, a small diner with long waiting lines of return customers, also hosts celebrations, but the ambience is informal.
 Pros
 Bedford and Pound Ridge give residents a rural lifestyle complete with rolling hills, horse farms, riding trails and a scenic village green, all less than an hour from Manhattan. 
 Cons
 Housing prices are skewed toward the high end, and bargains are hard come by, local real estate agents say. In Bedford, the median sales price of a single-family home is $1,012,500, said Joanna Rizoulis, manager of Sotheby's International Realty's office in Katonah, and in Pound Ridge it is $1,053,750. 
 The Real Estate Market
 About a third of the region's homeowners are part-timers, Ms. Rizoulis said. Most of the second-home buyers are from Manhattan, and their must-have checklist includes vintage Colonials or Victorians surrounded by plenty of acreage. 
 Showing potential for ''aha moments,'' a five-bedroom house on 17.5 acres with room for a tennis court is on the market in Bedford Village for $14.5 million. At the other end of the spectrum, a two-bedroom cottage on 1.24 acres near Kitchawan Lake in Pound Ridge is for sale at $619,000. Between the two, a 106-year-old Colonial in Bedford Hills on 8.19 acres has 10 bedrooms and is for sale at $5.95 million.
 As with the rest of the nation, the housing market in northeastern Westchester has slowed. Many estates take up to a year to sell, but when they do, Ms. Jaffee said, they go for close to asking price. ''At the top ranges,'' she said, ''there's not much negotiating taking place.''
 Some new construction, like Stone Manors on Twin Lakes, an enclave of 17 luxury four- and five-bedroom homes selling for about $3.9 million to $4.6 million, is also being marketed to second-home owners. In economic downturns, like the current one, said Douglas Smolev, one of the developers for Stone Manors, builders are aiming at ''the recession-proof end of the market.'' 
 ''These are buyers who want wine cellars and home movie theaters and private pools, and a high-end house in Bedford is perfect for them,'' Mr. Smolev said. ''They're still buying, even if the rest of the market isn't.''
 LAY OF THE LAND
 POPULATION 18,612, according to a 2006 Census Bureau estimate.
 SIZE 39.4 square miles. 
 WHERE Bedford is about 40 miles north of Midtown Manhattan.
 WHO'S BUYING Many residents of Manhattan who work in the financial industry. 
 WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING The Roger Sherman Inn (195 Oenoke Ridge or Route 124, 203-966-4541; www.rogershermaninn.com) is in nearby New Canaan, Conn. Single rooms with double occupancy start at $150 a night, and a two-bedroom suite goes for $350. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HORSES AND TRAILS: In and around Bedford, there are horse farms, a county park and miles of trails, some for riding. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map of Bedford in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); CHILDREN (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); SUBURBS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); INTERIOR DECORATING (71%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (68%); EMPTY NESTERS (67%); HISTORY (64%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



37 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: At Kodak, Some Old Things Are New Again

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

DATELINE: ROCHESTER 

 BODY:
Steven J. Sasson, an electrical engineer who invented the first digital camera at Eastman Kodak in the 1970s, remembers well management's dismay at his feat. 
 ''My prototype was big as a toaster, but the technical people loved it,'' Mr. Sasson said. ''But it was filmless photography, so management's reaction was, 'that's cute -- but don't tell anyone about it.' ''
 Since then, of course, Kodak, which once considered itself the Bell Labs of chemistry, has embraced the digital world and the researchers who understand it. 
 ''The shift in research focus has been just tremendous,'' said John D. Ward, a lecturer at the Rochester Institute of Technology who worked for Kodak for 20 years. Or, as Mr. Sasson put it, ''Getting a digital idea accepted has sure gotten a lot easier.'' 
 Indeed, physicists, electrical engineers and all sorts of people who are more comfortable with binary code than molecules are wending their way up through Kodak's research labs. ''When I joined, I knew my salary came from film sales,'' said Dr. Majid Rabbani, an electrical engineer who joined Kodak in 1983. ''But I knew that I would eventually produce paychecks for others.'' 
 Kodak is by no means thriving. Digital products are nowhere near filling the profit vacuum left by evaporating sales of film. Its work force is about a fifth of the size it was two decades ago, and it continues to lose money. Its share price remains depressed.
 But, finally, digital products are flowing from the labs. Kodak recently introduced a pocket-size television, which is selling in Japan for about $285. It has software that lets owners of multiplexes track what is showing on each screen. It has a tiny sensor small enough to fit into a cellphone, yet acute enough to capture images in low light. 
 The company now has digital techniques that can remove scratches and otherwise enhance old movies. It has found more efficient ways to make O.L.E.D.'s -- organic light-emitting diodes -- for displays in cameras, cellphones and televisions. 
 This month, Kodak will introduce Stream, a continuous inkjet printer that can churn out customized items like bill inserts at extremely high speeds. It is working on ways to capture and project three-dimensional movies. 
 And, of course, it continues to prompt consumers to take pictures with Kodak cameras, store them at Kodak sites online, display them in Kodak digital picture frames and print them on Kodak printers that use Kodak inks and papers.
 ''They want to be the World Bank of Imaging, to offer a Kodak-branded solution for anything you might want to do with images,'' said Matthew Troy, an analyst with Citigroup Investment Research, who recently upgraded Kodak to hold from sell. 
 Paradoxically, many of the new products are based on work Kodak began, but abandoned, years ago. The precursor technology to Stream, for example, pushed ink through a single nozzle. Stream has thousands of holes and uses a method called air deflection to separate drops of ink and control the speed and order in which they are deposited on a page. 
 ''I remember wandering through the labs in 2003, and seeing the theoretical model that could become Stream,'' said Philip J. Faraci, Kodak's president. ''The technology was half-baked, but it was a real breakthrough.'' 
 Other digital technologies languished as well, said Bill Lloyd, the chief technology officer. ''I've been here five years, and I'm still learning about all the things they already have,'' he said. ''It seems Kodak had developed antibodies against anything that might compete with film.'' 
 It took what many analysts say was a near-death experience to change that. Kodak, a film titan in the 20th century, entered the next one in danger of being mowed down by the digital juggernaut. Electronics companies like Sony were siphoning away the photography market, while giants like Hewlett-Packard and Xerox had a lock on printers.
 ''This was a supertanker that came close to capsizing,'' said Timothy M. Ghriskey, chief investment officer at Solaris Asset Management, which long ago sold its Kodak shares. 
 But in 2003 Kodak hired Antonio Perez away from Hewlett-Packard. Mr. Perez, now the chief executive, has sprinkled Hewlett alumni -- including Mr. Lloyd and Mr. Faraci -- throughout the executive suite. 
 Together, they have turned Kodak inside out. They exited a mainstay business, health imaging, and took the company back into inkjet printing. And they mined the patent archives for intellectual property, a step that is yielding well above $250 million a year in licensing fees. One recent example: Kodak is licensing out a method to embed a chemical signature in materials that enables manufacturers and retailers to scan for counterfeit products. 
 ''When it comes to intellectual property, they're finally acting like a for-profit corporation instead of a university,'' said Ulysses A. Yannas, a broker at Buckman, Buckman & Reid who has been buying Kodak shares. 
 The Hewlett alumni introduced an expensive consumer printer that runs on inexpensive ink -- tantamount to heresy in an industry that has always sold cheap hardware in hopes of making money on high-margin inks and toners. ''We were entering an entrenched market, so we went after the biggest dissatisfier for consumers, the cost of ink,'' said Steven A. Billow, a manager in the inkjet systems division
 And, perhaps most traumatic for a company that was known as the Great Yellow Father in Rochester, they eliminated jobs. Kodak, which employed 145,300 people 20 years ago, ended 2007 with 26,900 employees.
 Last year, $6.4 billion of its $10.3 billion in revenue came from digital products, but it earned only $179 million from them. And on Thursday, Kodak announced a first-quarter loss of $114 million on revenue of $2.09 billion. It was an improvement over the first quarter of 2007, when it lost $175 million on revenue of $2.08 billion. And Kodak's revenue from digital products rose 10 percent, to $1.366 billion. 
 Mr. Perez told analysts he had ''full confidence'' that 2008 would be a good year for Kodak, but investors did not share it. Its shares fell 67 cents on Thursday, to $17.22. After peaking at $94.25 in February 1997, they have steadily trended down. 
 Analysts remain wary. ''The stuff that comes out of the Kodak labs is impressive, but it does not give them a leg up on Hewlett or Xerox,'' said Shannon S. Cross, an analyst at Cross Research who rates Kodak a sell. Nor is she impressed with Kodak's consumer printer. ''Consumers buy on the cost of hardware, not of total ownership,'' she said.
 The Fujifilm Corporation, the Japanese company that was Kodak's main film rival, is not out of the picture, either. It recently moved its chemistry and electronics labs next door to each other. ''If they work as a single team at the same location, R.& D. productivity is significantly enhanced,'' Shinpei Ikenoue, the head of research at Fujifilm, said in an e-mail message. 
 Still, analysts no longer predict Kodak's demise. ''Kodak still has the most color specialists,'' Ms. Cross said.
 There are a lot fewer of them, though. The research ranks have been cut in half, to about 1,000 people. ''We watched a lot of chemists get downsized out of jobs,'' said Dr. Margaret J. Helber, an organic chemist who joined Kodak 18 years ago. ''The rest of us soldiered on for several years, not knowing if we would remain relevant in the transformed Kodak.'' 
 They did, but in radically altered jobs. For one thing, researchers who rarely interacted are now expected to collaborate.
 ''This used to be a closed society, where some researchers kept their records in locked safes,'' said Dr. John D. Baloga, director of analytical science and a Kodak employee for 31 years. ''Some of them were crushed when the secrecy went away.''
 Researchers also must now work with the business managers. Amit Singhal, a computer scientist who joined Kodak in 1998, said he had biweekly meetings with the business units. ''I never used to see them at all,'' he said. 
 Indeed, until recently, functions like finance, marketing and research all reported up through their own hierarchies, ultimately to the chief executive. Today, everyone involved in creating, selling and servicing inkjet printers is grouped together, as are those dealing with cameras, sensors or other products. 
 ''Finally, we have a structure that promotes commercialization of research,'' Mr. Faraci said.
 The research chiefs do hold quarterly meetings to uncover technologies that can cross product boundaries. Marketing, operations and customer service chiefs meet regularly as well, to discuss which products and services can be bundled together for sale, or to see whether economies of scale can be achieved. But day to day, researchers and marketers deal more with each other than with their functional peers. 
 ''Researchers invent something, demonstrate its feasibility, talk about commercializing it,'' said Julie Gerstenberger, vice president for external alliances. ''But these days, it's all in collaboration with the business side.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Margaret J. Helber, a chemist, left, works at the organic chemistry lab. Right, Kodak has found more efficient ways to make organic light-emitting diodes, or O.L.E.D.'s, for display screens
Allan Camp, a technician at Kodak's inkjet development center in Rochester, works on the development of print heads for printers. This month, Kodak will introduce Stream, a new printer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C2)
 Steven J. Sasson, an electrical engineer, created the first digital camera. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL CAMERAS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CHEMISTRY (75%); TEST LABORATORIES (75%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (73%); PHYSICS (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (68%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (68%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); BANKING & FINANCE (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (92%); BELL LABORATORIES (57%); CITIGROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



38 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; AMERICAN JOURNEYS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1974 words

HEADLINE: Paddling, Wining and Dining on the Other Eastern Shore

BYLINE: By STEVE BAILEY

 BODY:
NORTH, out of Virginia Beach, it was just water and sky, sea gulls and salt air. 
 Except for two brief dips beneath shipping channels, you have been skimming along the entrance to Chesapeake Bay on the 17-mile-long Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel. With trucks and motor homes whizzing past, it paid to take it slow. Was that a pelican? Are those geese, or cormorants? And look at that freighter out there. 
 From high points on the Bridge-Tunnel, the land to the north looks flat, with fingers of water grasping a marshy shore to the right. You have a choice. Do you return to the Jungle Golf, boardwalk and other attractions of Virginia Beach and Norfolk? Or do you keep going? There's an opportunity to make a U-turn and go back south without paying the toll again -- but let it pass. What waits ahead is worth checking out. 
 This is the Eastern Shore of Virginia, the southern tip of the Delmarva Peninsula, two skinny counties strung between Maryland's own Eastern Shore and the Bridge-Tunnel. It's only 65 miles long and no more than 10 miles at its widest. But time is its most elemental dimension: time for nature and wildlife to reclaim island after island, time for one economy to wither and another to grow, time for beaches to form, fill with shells, then vanish. 
 The first stop is on the right, just after the Bridge-Tunnel: the Eastern Shore of Virginia National Wildlife Refuge. The visitors center focuses on coastal wetlands, while a photographer's blind lets you get close to whatever fowl are settled on the small pond behind the center. The refuge is part of a swath of protected coastal habitat that includes most of the roughly two dozen barrier islands that line the ocean side of the Eastern Shore. All fascinating, but it is getting to be time to eat. 
 Up the road, on the Chesapeake Bay side, sits Cape Charles, a town of about 1,100 that was once a terminus for the New York, Philadelphia & Norfolk Railroad. Head to Mason Avenue, where a row of harborside restaurants, art galleries and shops have become popular weekend destinations. Lunch depends on what you want to drink. For a wide range of beers, there's Kelly's Gingernut Pub. For a latte or an espresso, there's the Cape Charles Coffeehouse.
 After lunch, keep north on U.S. 13, the Eastern Shore's spine. When you get to Machipongo, turn left onto Route 627 for two very different stops. First is the Barrier Island Center, housed in Northampton County's former poorhouse, a shrine of sorts to the hotels, watermen and rich island visitors of another era. Once there, Jerry Doughty, museum guide and retired high school history teacher, is the ideal person to acquaint you with the region. His family once lived on Hog, one of the barrier islands. 
 ''There were pirates -- including Blackbeard -- and smugglers and false basements,'' Mr. Doughty says of island life. He adds that his own great-grandfather -- who can be seen in a photograph at the center -- was imprisoned during the Civil War for smuggling. During Prohibition, he says, ships carrying liquor from Canada, the Bahamas and elsewhere would anchor beyond the three-mile limit.
 By the 1920s, though, the islands were already in economic decline. In 1933, Mr. Doughty says, nature delivered a crushing blow with what's known locally as the Great August Storm, which destroyed many buildings. Other major storms that decade did further damage and discouraged rebuilding. By 1940, only Chincoteague still had residents. 
 After the Barrier Island Center, travel farther west for a return to the present and perhaps a glimpse of the future at Chatham Vineyards. The winemaker there, Jon Wehner, harvests about 70 tons of grapes from 20 densely planted acres on Chatham Farm.
 ''The Eastern Shore is great for grapes,'' Mr. Wehner says over a glass in the tasting room. ''It's a moderate maritime climate, like Bordeaux, and has sandy loam soils.'' His priciest wine is an award-winning Bordeaux-style blend of merlot, cabernet sauvignon and cabernet franc. He says he sees no reason why the area can't become a viticultural center on the order of the North Fork of Long Island. There are two other local wineries: Bloxom Winery in Bloxom and Holly Grove Vineyards in Franktown, both north of Machipongo. 
 SO, with all its assets, why isn't the region better known? One reason is poverty. These two counties, Accomack to the north and Northampton to the south, with a combined population of about 54,000, are among the poorest in Virginia. As is happening all along the Chesapeake, the fishing and crabbing industries are in decline. There is still productive crabbing in the salt marshes on the Atlantic side, but many watermen have moved away to find work. You can drive down almost any road and see abandoned and derelict houses. 
 Another factor is the Civil War. Virginia promotes Civil War sites the way Florida promotes orange juice, but it keeps quiet about how it turned its back on the Eastern Shore and allowed Union forces to occupy it in 1861 without a fight. 
 It is getting late after the winery. Some of the best accommodations and best dining are in Onancock, a Chesapeake harbor town of about 1,500. Be sure to take in the tiny harbor, browse in the shops on North and Market Streets, and pick a place for dinner, perhaps the wine bar at the North Street Market, where diners sit around a piano-shaped bar to mingle and talk all evening. 
 The next day, you have to see those deserted barrier islands -- most owned by the Nature Conservancy or various government agencies -- for yourself. And that means a boat ride or a kayak trip. 
 The islands are basically sandbars, some of which have developed forested uplands. Few signs of human habitation remain -- there are no ghost towns -- but their attraction remains strong not only for their beaches and wildlife but also for studies on how barrier islands and their beaches move, replenish, erode and otherwise do what they do when they aren't lined with condo towers, boardwalks and artificial jetties. 
 Kayaks are a good way to explore, and Cedar Island is a frequent destination for tours led by Dave Burden, who owns SouthEast Expeditions, which also rents kayaks. Mr. Burden wears two other hats: he's a Northampton County supervisor and he's the Virginia Eastern Shorekeeper. He has been in the kayaking business for 15 years and knows the little channels -- creeks, he calls them --that are too narrow or too shallow for motorboats. 
 When Cedar Island shows up in the distance, its dunes are a white stripe against the sky and water, and the wind tastes of salt. There are grasses but no trees. An old Coast Guard station and a tower mark the southern end of the island. At the beach on the bay side near the island's north end, Mr. Burden cautions to stay below the wrack, the dead vegetation at the high tide line; above the tide line are the nests of shorebirds and perhaps loggerhead turtles. 
 He encourages people to examine the shells that carpet the beach, explaining the difference between a knobbed whelk and a channeled whelk. He picks up an oyster shell eight inches long and an inch thick. ''These big ones,'' he says, ''are historic -- they don't get this big now.''
 He later finds a three-inch-diameter shell, not unlike a snail shell, that he says started out on the bay side of the island, got buried as winds and waves pushed the island over it, and re-emerged decades or a century later on the ocean side, blackened by time. Back on the bay side, there was a smaller version, this one fresh with the brownish-gold color that gives the shell its name: tiger's eye. 
 Mr. Burden points toward nearby Metompkin Island, which he describes as the ''fastest-moving real estate in the United States.'' He says that it, like other islands here, is moving toward the mainland. Storms and other events influence the pace, and there's no date predicted for its merger with the mainland, but, Mr. Burden says, ''It's happening in human time, not geological time.'' 
 How many people a year visit Cedar and the other islands like it? ''Maybe it's in the hundreds,'' Mr. Burden says, ''but not the thousands.'' 
 THAT'S not the case at Chincoteague, this journey's last stop. It's one of the barrier islands but, unlike the rest, it has a town (population 4,300) and is reached by a bridge from the mainland. If you don't already know the story that saved the town's tourist economy, you'll know it before you leave. In 1947, a visitor to Chincoteague, Marguerite Henry of Wayne, Ill., wrote ''Misty of Chincoteague,'' about one of the wild ponies on nearby Assateague Island. Each July some ponies are rounded up for a swim across the channel to Chincoteague, where they are auctioned to raise money for the Chincoteague Volunteer Fire Company. That book and the movie that followed put Chincoteague on the map. 
 So, you drive through streets lined with restaurants, T-shirt shops and pony-themed store windows. A new bridge to Chincoteague, to open next year, will send traffic straight into Maddox Boulevard, which shoots across the island to the bridge to Assateague Island, part of which is in Maryland. The island is home to the Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge, the Assateague Island National Seashore and Assateague State Park.
 Cross that bridge, pay the $5-per-car fee and start looking around. There are a lighthouse from 1867, a visitors center, walking trails and a glorious long and wide ocean beach. If you're among the first to arrive, you can park on the beach in an area just behind the dunes. You'll probably see ponies, which have no fear of humans, from the road as you drive. The ponies once had the run of the island, but now, to protect the beach dunes, they are contained in two large but fenced areas that visitors can enter. 
 Those ponies are probably the most famous attractions on the Eastern Shore of Virginia, and many people there seem quite happy to keep the spotlight on them. They simply mean, on the other islands, fewer footprints in the sand.
 VISITOR INFORMATION
 The Eastern Shore of Virginia National Wildlife Refuge (757-331-2760; www.fws.gov/northeast/easternshore) is open daylight hours. In Cape Charles, Kelly's Gingernut Pub (133 Mason Avenue; 757-331-3222) opens at 11:30 a.m. and serves pub food like crab cake sandwiches ($9); the Cape Charles Coffeehouse (241 Mason Avenue; 757-331-1880) is open daily 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., Friday and Saturday to 9 p.m. The Barrier Islands Center (7295 Young Street, Machipongo; 757-678-5550; www.barrierislandscenter.com) is open Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. (and Sunday 1 to 5 p.m. from June 1 to Labor Day). Admission is $5. The free tasting bar and the sales counter at Chatham Vineyards (9232 Chatham Road, Machipongo; 757-678-5588; www.chathamvineyards.net) are open Thursday through Monday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., except noon to 5 on Sunday.
 Onancock is at the western end of State Route 179 a few miles off U.S. 13. The Inn at Onancock (30 North Street; 757-789-7711; www.innatonancock.com) is a B & B in an 1886 house with a generous afternoon wine hour. Its rooms are $165 to $205. North Street Market (5 North Street; 757-787-8805), a specialty foods and wine shop, is also a 22-seat wine bar and restaurant on Friday and Saturday nights. SouthEast Expeditions (611 Mason Avenue, Cape Charles; 757-331-2680; www.sekayak.com) offers guided kayak tours, including a half-day tour ($85 per person) in conjunction with Chatham Vineyards with wine served on a secluded island. It also delivers and picks up rental kayaks at the Eastern Shore Refuge. 
 Broadwater Bay Ecotours (757-442-4363; www.broadwaterbayecotour.com) puts its motorboats in at a variety of points; a three-hour tour, led by a naturalist, is $85 a person.
 Information on Assateague Island's three parks and refuges is at www.assateague.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UNTAMED: Top, ponies on Assateague Island have a nibble and sip. Below, baiting up to catch crabs on Chincoteague. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE ROSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map showing the Delmarva Peninsula along Virginia Beach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); WILDLIFE (78%); BEACHES (78%); BIRDS (78%); HISTORY (77%); WETLANDS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); BEER & ALE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (94%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



39 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CHONGSON JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Koreans Recall an Era Of Propaganda Battles

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: CHONGSON, South Korea 

 BODY:
In early April, when North Korea called President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea an ''impostor,'' a ''traitor'' and an ''American running dog,'' the verbal barbs sounded all too familiar to Jin Yong-seon. He has a museum filled with them. 
 In his Remembrance Museum in this former mining town about 90 miles east of Seoul, Mr. Jin is exhibiting 700 samples of what he calls ''paper bombs,'' the leaflets North and South Korea fired at each other from the Korean War to 2000, when reconciliation efforts prompted a cease-fire in the propaganda battle. 
 In one North Korean leaflet displayed at Mr. Jin's museum, a faked photograph that was pieced together depicts a former South Korean president in a bedroom tryst with a coquettish actress over the caption, ''Kim Young-sam, the libertine.'' Another leaflet gives a cartoon rendition of Mr. Kim's predecessor, Roh Tae-woo, kneeling to take orders from James R. Lilley, the American ambassador from 1986 to 1989. 
 ''When I was a kid, we found these leaflets falling like drizzle in the hills around here,'' said Mr. Jin, 44. ''If we found them, we were supposed to report them to the police station. We got comic books, pencils or sweets as a reward.'' 
 In an age when there was no Internet and each side jammed the other's radio signals, flying leaflets across the border by plane or balloon was the surest way to deliver thought bombs deep into enemy territory. South Korea's leaflets advertised its growing affluence, while the North needled the South as seeking protection from the ''imperialist'' American military.
 Both sides promised defectors cash, houses, medals and women.
 Mr. Jin, a former English teacher, opened his 2,150-square-foot museum in an abandoned school in 2005 to help lure tourists to his hometown, Chongson, once a leading mining center but now largely forgotten. In keeping, perhaps, with the town's decline, Mr. Jin collects and displays everyday items from the recent past that are now fast disappearing from people's memories: old-fashioned toys, playing cards, record albums -- and propaganda leaflets. 
 He bought the leaflets from former police officers -- some of the only people allowed to keep them during the cold war -- as well as from herb gatherers who sometimes still find old fliers buried under leaves and from other collectors who advertise on the Internet. 
 Mr. Jin called the leaflet exhibition, which opened in April, ''Memories of Propaganda.'' It also includes some leaflets dropped by the United States during the war. Historians estimate that American aircraft scattered 2.5 billion leaflets. 
 As it turned out, North Korea provided a timely example of what the exhibition is all about. Just as Mr. Jin opened the three-month show, North Korea ended an eight-year suspension of cross-border invective, launching a salvo at the newly inaugurated President Lee, who had promised to take a tougher stance against North Korea. 
 ''Even the steamed head of a dead cow would burst out laughing at him -- in fact, laughing so hard that its muzzle would break,'' the North's state-run newspaper Rodong Sinmun said, belittling President Lee's pledge not to deliver economic aid to the North until it abandoned its nuclear weapons. ''He should blow his own dirty nose before worrying about somebody else's problem.'' 
 North Korean propagandists often use Korean proverbs or folklore characters when scorning an enemy; the cow comment is based on an old Korean saying. A few years ago when Washington criticized its nuclear weapons program, North Korea dismissed the complaint as inconsequential with another old saying: ''The dog barks, but the caravan continues.'' 
 When the leaders of the two Koreas held their first summit meeting, in 2000, they agreed to suspend the slander. The North continued to criticize the South, but in relatively mild terms. It remains unclear whether the recent strident attacks against President Lee represent an isolated fit of anger or the resumption of the war of words. 
 During a recent tour of the museum, Mr. Jin said the leaflets showed how North Korea used language ''as a tool of violence,'' adding, ''They capture the cold war so well.'' 
 So do the South Korean leaflets, which present stark choices. One shows Communist soldiers being shot as they try to invade the South. Others boast of the miracles of capitalism, showing South Koreans vacationing on beaches and trumpeting the number of cars produced in the South.
 The leaflets did not always produce the intended effect, however. 
 ''In my case, the violent language of North Korean leaflets made a real anti-Communist out of me,'' Mr. Jin said. 
 Lee Min-bok, a North Korean scientist who defected to the South in 1995, said he had been shocked by a picture of a naked woman in a South Korean leaflet that he saw while still in the North. 
 ''I blushed,'' Mr. Lee said. ''You would never see such a thing in North Korea. But it also reinforced our indoctrination that South Koreans were depraved capitalists.'' Still, the shock was not enough to keep him from heading south with thousands of other North Koreans fleeing famine and political repression.
 By the time the two governments agreed to switch off their propaganda radios and ground their balloons in 2000, South Korea had significantly changed; newly self-confident, it had already given up other cold war practices. While North Korea still fixes all radios so that people can receive only government broadcasts, the South lifted its ban on listening to Communist broadcasts in the late 1990s. 
 Leaflet drops from the South continue, but now they are the work of individuals. Some are sent by balloon by Mr. Lee and other North Korean defectors, whose leaflets contain an American dollar bill and biting criticism of the economic failures of Kim Jong-il's government. Others are sent by Christians who want to attract converts.
 Despite the new leaflets from individuals, the old ones have gained a certain status. Mr. Jin said propaganda leaflets from the old days had become collector's items, trading for up to $200 apiece. Because it was illegal to possess them, they are in short supply. 
 ''They are to Koreans what chips of the demolished Berlin Wall are to Germans,'' he said. ''They are the debris of the cold war.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shin Jae-kyu, 10, top, peered at fliers on Thursday at the Remembrance Museum in Chongson, South Korea. The exhibit of propaganda includes leaflets like one from 1991 by North Korea, at left, depicting Donald P. Gregg, then the United States ambassador, Roh Tae-woo, then South Korea's president, and Kim Youngsam, who went on to become president in 1993. Above, a South Korean flier announced joint military exercises with United States forces.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SEOKYONG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Chongson's Remembrance Museum aims to lure tourists. Map details area of DEMILITARIZED ZONE in North Korea. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); KOREAN WAR (78%); HISTORY (77%); COLD WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); POLICE FORCES (65%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (64%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



40 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: A Getaway in Belize, Roads Optional

BYLINE: By KEVIN BRASS

 BODY:
AMBERGRIS CAYE was a sleepy destination for divers and fishermen 15 years ago, when the singer and songwriter Jerry Jeff Walker and his wife, Susan, built their house on the Caribbean waterfront. 
 Since then, it has become Belize's most popular tourist destination. High-end residential developments now dot the island. It is even possible to find a good bottle of French wine in San Pedro, the island's main town. 
 But Susan Walker, who is based in Texas, is convinced that Ambergris will maintain its distinct island charm. 
 ''This place is just funky enough to keep the people away,'' she said. 
 Despite the recent growth, Ambergris resists many of the trappings of high-end tourism found on other Caribbean islands. The water along the 25-mile-long island is too shallow for cruise ships and mega-yachts, and there are few big resorts. There is also a dearth of top-end restaurants, spas and glitzy discos. The nearest golf course is 40 minutes away by boat. 
 Still, since 1993 the island's population has jumped to an estimated 12,000 from 2,500, including a wave of Americans and Canadians who bought second homes or retired on the island. Ambergris is ''booming, but it's booming nice and quietly,'' said Chris Allnat, owner of the Pelican Properties real estate agency. 
 Most of Ambergris's new development is north of San Pedro in an area still primarily accessible only by boat. Last year a small bridge was built over the Cut, the nickname for the channel that separates the much larger northern part of the island from San Pedro and the south. But cars are still banned on the one bumpy dirt road that stretches through that northern section of the island. 
 There is talk of paving the north road but limiting its use to golf carts, which are still the main mode of transportation on the island. ''We do not want it to be suitable for carrying cars,'' said Diane Campbell, a local developer. ''We're trying to decrease the number of cars.'' 
 Ms. Campbell and her husband, Bob, have built six small residential projects on the island. Their latest is Solaria, a collection of three waterfront houses with wide verandas, priced around $900,000 to $1 million. 
 Most of the developments on the island range from 20 to 70 units. Government restrictions limit buildings along the waterfront to three or four stories, which has kept projects small. 
 ''They don't want to change the feel of the place,'' said Macarena Rose, president of the Belize National Association of Realtors. 
 Agents say prices for houses have spiked 20 to 30 percent on Ambergris in recent years, but are still relatively inexpensive compared with those on other Caribbean islands. A two-bedroom waterfront condo typically sells for $300,000 to $500,000. 
 Few pristine lots are available, and many parts of the island are swampy and only stretches offer white sand. In the last three years, waterfront land has jumped from $3,500 to almost $6,000 a linear foot for developable beachfront property in the north, agents say. (In Belize, land is commonly priced by the length of its beachfront, and prices are quoted in United States dollars.) 
 For foreign buyers, Belize offers many attractive features. English is the primary language, and the currency is fixed at two Belizean dollars to one United States dollar. It also makes it easy to retire there, simplifying the process for foreign citizens to establish residence and transfer possessions into the country. 
 Tony Newshel, a New Jersey resident and an avid scuba diver, said ''the ease of being in Belize'' and the island's relaxed atmosphere played large roles in his decision to buy on Ambergris. Three years ago he and his wife, Ginny, paid about $500,000 for a two-bedroom waterfront condo in the Phoenix development near the heart of San Pedro. 
 From an investment standpoint, the changes on Ambergris have been completely for the better, Mr. Newshel said. ''The town is able to handle more people, more conveniently.'' 
 CHANGES include paved roads around San Pedro, two supermarkets and a number of new restaurants. 
 The Phoenix, where the Newshels bought an apartment, is billed as the first upscale development in San Pedro. The 30-unit complex was built by Jerry and Linda McDermott, who ran a popular bar and hotel on the site for 20 years. ''We're trying to create a new niche in the market,'' said Mark Maggiotto, the Phoenix's general manager. 
 Twenty-four of the 30 condos have been sold since the project went on the market in 2005, Mr. Maggiotto said. The six remaining units -- not on the waterfront -- range from a one-bedroom for $399,000 to a three-bedroom unit for $589,000. 
 In recent weeks, agents on Ambergris report a slowdown in buying activity as the troubles in the American economy ripple through the market. But sales could get a boost if direct flights to Belize City are initiated from Europe, as is widely anticipated. Last year the main runway at Philip S. W. Goldson International Airport in Belize City was expanded to accommodate bigger jets. (People usually connect to San Pedro on small planes.) 
 And even Susan Walker realizes that, although the charm may remain in tact , there will be more development in the island's future. ''I think it's inevitable,'' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); CRUISES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); TOURISM (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); GOLF (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); BELIZE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



41 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Determining Who Rides The Lifeboat

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
''I ask you, what am I? I'm one of the undeserving poor. That's what I am. Think of what that means to a man. It means that he's up agen middle class morality all the time ... I don't need less than a deserving man; I need more. I don't eat less hearty than him, and I drink a lot more.''
 -- Alfred Doolittle, in ''Pygmalion'' by George Bernard Shaw 
 ''If investors choose to walk away because they put no money down and their free option is now worthless, we do not believe taxpayers should be held accountable. We are focused on helping homeowners who want to stay in their homes and have the financial wherewithal to do so.''
 -- Robert K. Steel, under secretary of the Treasury for domestic finance
 As the mortgage crisis spilled over into a credit squeeze that threatened to bring down Wall Street, the government has tried to find ways to prevent disaster while not helping those who do not deserve help.
 That can be seen in the program the Federal Housing Administration initially offered to homeowners facing ballooning mortgage payments. It would refinance their mortgages, but only if they had proved they were deserving by keeping current on the payments before the interest rate reset. 
 It turns out, as Rachel L. Swarns reported in The New York Times this week, that there are not enough of them who need help. So the program has been expanded to allow refinancings for those who had missed no more than two payments -- but only if there were extenuating circumstances, like lost jobs, pay cuts or illnesses.
 We want to help homeowners in trouble, but only if they are deserving. Alfred Doolittle would not be surprised.
 Mr. Steel, in a speech this week to the Society of American Business Editors and Writers in Baltimore, made clear that he did not want to bail out homeowners who are not deserving of help, a class that includes ''investors'' who put no money down.
 In the same speech, he became the first Bush administration official, at least to my knowledge, to cite the late economist Hyman Minsky in explaining what has gone wrong. Minsky is more often quoted by liberals who want to justify more government regulation of a capitalist system that is prone to excess. 
 ''Minsky,'' Mr. Steel said, ''described how strong economic periods fueled optimism among lenders and borrowers. Eventually during a boom, however, what is initially rational enthusiasm turns excessive as both borrowing and lending become increasingly speculative. At some point during the later stages of the speculative boom, buyers become less eager to buy and sellers become more eager to sell. That, Minsky postulated, would develop into a period of financial distress. This framework certainly seems to capture the issues and challenges of today.''
 As it happens, Minsky is enjoying something of a revival. Two of his books, ''John Maynard Keynes,'' and ''Stabilizing an Unstable Economy'' were just republished by McGraw-Hill, and his contention that stability is inherently unstable seems more relevant than ever in the aftermath of the period of low market volatility that ended in the current crisis.
 In the latter of those books, published in 1986, Minsky wrote, ''If the institutions responsible for the lender-of-last resort function stand aside and allow market forces to operate, then the decline in asset values relative to current output prices will be larger than with intervention; investment and debt financed consumption will fall by larger amounts; and the decline in income, employment and profits will be greater.'' In other words, without government bailouts, there can be a downward spiral.
 The risk now is that letting market forces operate will create such a spiral. ''The undeserving speculator who lied about his loan, put very little down, and now is increasingly indifferent to handing over the keys, is creating a growing stock of unsold homes that are producing an accelerating decline for house prices,'' said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG.
 ''It invites a calculation that says, 'We are all a lot poorer, because our house values have fallen,' '' he added. ''That can become a self-reinforcing negative dynamic'' that makes consumers fearful to spend and persuades them that buying a house is foolish until prices have fallen further.
 That now seems to be happening. Over the six months through February, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price indexes reported this week, home prices fell at an annual rate of more than 25 percent in Las Vegas, Phoenix, Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego and Miami. 
 The Conference Board consumer confidence survey found that only 15 percent of Americans expect their income to rise over the next six months, the lowest figure since the survey began in 1967. The proportion planning to buy a house is at a 33-year low. The proportion planning to take a vacation within six months has never been lower.
 To reverse that dynamic, the government may eventually decide that it is necessary to bail out the undeserving as well as the deserving, no matter how repugnant that seems at the moment, and no matter how bad the inflationary impact may be.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: AMERICANS' INCOME EXPECTATIONS: For 6 months in the future (Source: Conference Board) Graph showing the future expectations of incomes from Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (88%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); BAILOUTS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (67%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); WRITERS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



42 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Scott Excels As Johnson And Riley Fade

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Rod Thorn called from New Jersey. Pat Riley left a voice message from Miami. One by one, the guys checked in, telling Byron Scott how happy they were for him, how much he deserved the N.B.A. coach of the year award and the taste of Western Conference playoff success after New Orleans's five-game brush-off of Avery Johnson and Dallas. 
 What a strangely connected, capricious world these men navigate. Two years ago, Johnson was coach of the year, in career ascendance until the Mavericks blew a 2-0 finals lead and suddenly it was Riley of the Heat revisiting a winner's circle he had been absent from for 17 years. Now Riley, Scott's once-celebrated mentor with the Lakers, says he is retired from coaching, and Johnson is unemployed after losing to the Hornets, colliding with Scott at the intersection of fate and Jason Kidd. 
 ''That's our business, what have you done for me lately?'' Scott said Thursday in a telephone interview after working his team out before the start of the next round, Saturday against the defending champion San Antonio Spurs. ''I know that firsthand.''
 Scott's Nets were 22-20, coming off consecutive appearances in the finals when Thorn, the team president, reluctantly fired him in 2004, based on a player insurgency believed to have been spearheaded by Kidd. That winter, into spring, Scott tried some weekend television commentary and during the week camped out on the cross trainer at the Y.M.C.A. in my town, Montclair, N.J., occasionally wandering into the gym to run full-court with the rowdy lunchtime regulars.
 ''Some guys out there were talking a little smack,'' Scott said, nothing he could not appreciate, or handle.
 Having seen him there often, I can tell you that Scott was not the type to bitterly sound off on Kidd, or anyone, and he had ample opportunity, along with good reason. 
 ''To be honest, that was an enjoyable time for me, reconnecting with my family,'' he said. ''My wife and I were at the Y every day, going to lunch. It was a chance to sit back, a time to reflect, to decide whether I even wanted to get back into coaching, because I never imagined that it would so different than when I played. But it is. There was a lot more respect for the coaches than there is now.''
 Scott, of course, played on championship teams, alongside Magic Johnson, an intuitive basketball genius who did not need Riley to break dance on the sideline to get him to focus. 
 In New Jersey, Scott's crime seemed to be an aversion to compulsive coaching behavior, to watching tape until his eyes looked as if they had been bagged at the supermarket checkout counter. He still managed to get stunning results with what had been a laughingstock franchise. His ego did not obstruct creativity. He trusted in Kidd, who inexplicably became frustrated with the best coach/point guard relationship he could hope for.
 When Scott decided to coach again for the 2004-5 season, he inherited a New Orleans team that would win 18 games and would later be made homeless by a disaster named Katrina. Even he had to suspect his career was on a fast track to oblivion.
 Not to minimize a good coach's value, but although a few do manage to reach a level of permanent transcendence, most understand they are largely situational survivors, at the mercy of their front office. What coach, for instance, could have made salad of Isiah Thomas's slop in New York that will take considerable time and effort for Donnie Walsh to clean up? While Walsh interviews candidates to replace Thomas on the bench, he might consider that the last thing he needs in the coming seasons is a domineering personality trying to draw blood from a stone. 
 To that end, the longtime assistant Herb Williams, unassuming and loyal, could be the right transitional choice, certainly a better one than Avery Johnson, the yappy new free agent, whom Kidd was clearly not too enamored with soon after he leveraged himself out of New Jersey. There, he cited everything but his own diminished performance for a slide back to mediocrity that began, really, with the jettisoning of Scott. 
 I wonder how Kidd felt watching Scott in his familiar sideline pose, arms folded, mostly stoic, allowing the third-year pro Chris Paul the same freedom he used to give Kidd.
 ''It took me a year to feel comfortable enough to let him call the plays,'' Scott said. ''But it took him another year and a half to stop looking over at me and to trust his instincts. Now there are times when he'll call a play, and I'm looking at him and thinking that's the same call I had in mind.''
 That was Scott's way of saying that he and Paul, so controlled and simultaneously explosive you cannot take your eyes off him, are simpatico, more than ever after Paul's demolition of Kidd.
 Not that Scott would admit to any revenge motive. When asked about how he had answered the Kidd questions all series, Scott said, no doubt expressionless, ''I have no answer.'' Smart cookie, and coach, who knows when less is more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (83%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (58%); DALLAS STARS (57%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (56%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (56%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (55%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



43 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Exxon Posts Its 2nd-Best Quarter, But It's Not Enough for Wall St.

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Exxon Mobil reported the second-best quarterly profit in its history on Thursday -- and investors could barely hide their disappointment.
 Exxon, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, said its net income rose 17 percent in the first quarter, buoyed by high oil prices. But that was less than Wall Street expected, and Exxon's shares fell 3.6 percent, to close at $89.70.
 Moreover, the company's report displayed fresh difficulties in its core business, with oil production dropping sharply compared with the quarter a year earlier. 
 Crude oil prices have flirted with records, lifting corporate profits throughout the industry to new heights. But they are also masking an increasingly difficult business environment, marked by rising costs, tightening access to oil fields, and declining profit for refineries. 
 For the big oil companies, extraordinary profits have turned into a somewhat incongruous embarrassment of riches. Rising gasoline and diesel fuel prices have created resentment among drivers and truckers against the oil companies that could especially resonate in an election year. 
 The high crude oil prices are translating into record retail gasoline costs in the United States. Regular gasoline was selling Thursday for an average of $3.62 a gallon, according to AAA, the automobile club, up from less than $3 a year ago. Diesel fuel averaged $4.25 a gallon.
 Few energy specialists expect oil prices to drop much this year. Oil for June delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell 94 cents on Thursday, to $112.52 a barrel.
 While energy companies have little control over the price of oil, which is set on commodities markets, they have benefited immensely from the rally. In the last week, BP, Royal Dutch Shell and ConocoPhillips all reported big jumps in their profits. 
 Exxon is admired in the industry for its spending discipline and skill at managing complex projects. But this quarter, its profits fell short of Wall Street forecasts. Exxon's net income was $10.9 billion, or $2.03 a share, up from $9.3 billion, or $1.62 a share a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had forecast $2.13 a share. 
 That level of profitability still makes last quarter Exxon's second most lucrative, after the record $11.7 billion it earned in the fourth quarter of 2007. Last year, the company reported a profit of $40.6 billion, the biggest annual profit by an American company. 
 Still, Brian M. Youngberg, an oil analyst at Edward Jones, said: ''Investing comes down to expectations and the expectations were pretty high, especially after BP and Shell reported pretty good outlooks. And Exxon didn't quite deliver.''
 In particular, investors focused on a sharp production drop caused by a government takeover of Exxon's assets in Venezuela, the decline of fields in the United States and lower quantities in West Africa. 
 Exxon's oil output dropped almost 10 percent in the first quarter, to 2.47 million barrels a day, compared with the quarter last year, as production fell in every region except Russia and the Caspian. Even disregarding the effect of the events in Venezuela, Exxon's production fell 6 percent. 
 Its output of natural gas rose by a little more than 1 percent, to 10.2 billion cubic feet a day. 
 Paul Sankey, an analyst with Deutsche Bank, commented in a note: ''Deeply concerned about future energy supply, the market wants growth, growth and growth. Exxon Mobil does not offer that right now.'' 
 Part of the drop in production came from the structure of some international contracts, under which oil companies must give a larger share of the oil they produce back to the host governments as prices rise. 
 Higher prices and a rush to drill new wells have also contributed to sharp inflation in the industry, with exploration and production costs more than doubling in recent years. As a result, oil companies have had difficulty increasing their oil and gas output.
 Some analysts said Exxon was slow in recent years to increase its investments in response to the higher costs but is now responding more aggressively. In the first quarter, Exxon lifted its spending on capital and exploration projects by 30 percent, to $5.5 billion.
 From 2002 to 2006, the company spent more than $15 billion each year for oil and gas production and development. Its capital expenses last year rose to $21 billion, and they are expected to average $25 billion to $30 billion from 2008 to 2012. 
 Exxon expects to start a dozen projects this year, including two large natural gas facilities in Qatar and offshore oil developments in Angola and the Gulf of Mexico. The company said it had a portfolio of 119 projects around the world with reserves equivalent to 24 billion barrels of oil. Earnings from exploration and production increased 45 percent, to $8.79 billion.
 ''Our production outlook for the future is strong,'' Kenneth P. Cohen, Exxon's vice president for public affairs, said in a conference call. But he added, ''We are not immune to the cost pressures that the industry is facing in general.''
 In refining, profit margins have plummeted as refiners were unable to pass through all the increases in crude oil prices. One company, Sunoco, said Wednesday that it had a first-quarter loss of $59 million because of weak refining margins.
 Exxon said its refining margins dropped last quarter, reducing its profit from refining operations by 39 percent, to $1.17 billion, from the period a year earlier. 
 Exxon sold 6.8 million barrels a day of petroleum products, down 377,000 barrels a day. 
 Oil executives have been called before Congress to defend their profits in the last two years. As energy prices keep rising, there has been support for a windfall profits tax on oil companies. 
 The record prices at the pump have entered the presidential debate, with Senators John McCain and Hillary Rodham Clinton calling for a suspension of the federal gasoline tax this summer. Senator Barack Obama opposes the idea as counterproductive -- a view shared by many economists, who argue that lowering taxes would encourage more consumption, adding to pressure on supplies.
 Exxon and other companies contend that the last time a windfall tax was imposed, in the 1980s, domestic oil production fell and gasoline prices rose as a result.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A driver buying diesel fuel at an Exxon Mobil station in Williamsville, N.Y. Nationwide, the fuel is averaging $4.25 a gallon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID DUPREY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (77%); DIESEL FUEL (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (92%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%); RDSA (LSE) (92%); RDSA (AMS) (92%); RDS.B (NYSE) (92%); RDS.A (NYSE) (92%); COP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



44 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: In Tougher Times, Carlyle Looks Abroad

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
It's been a rough few months for David M. Rubenstein, co-founder and managing director of the Carlyle Group.
 As the subprime crisis sent deal-making into a tailspin last August, Carlyle barely saved its buyout of Home Depot's contractor supply unit. When banks balked at lending, Carlyle increased the amount of cash it put in and persuaded Home Depot to cut the price 18 percent, to $8.5 billion.
 In December, unions petitioned regulators to block Carlyle's $6.3 billion purchase of the nursing home chain Manor Care, accusing the firm of focusing on profits to the detriment of patients. Though their effort was unsuccessful, the unions continued to hound Mr. Rubenstein, demonstrating in January at the University of Pennsylvania, where he gave a speech at a private equity conference held at the Wharton School. 
 ''For the next year or so, we will be in purgatory,'' he told the conference. ''We will have to atone for our sins a little bit.''
 A few weeks later, Carlyle's mortgage bond fund paid for the transgression of overleveraging. The Carlyle Capital Corporation defaulted on $16.6 billion of debt, after borrowing 32 times its $670 million of equity capital nine months earlier to invest mainly in AAA-rated mortgage securities.
 Carlyle, whose 60 funds own $81.1 billion in assets, can withstand the $150 million loss from the Carlyle Capital failure. More severe was the damage to its reputation for stellar returns -- an average of more than 30 percent annually since its founding in 1987, according to the company.
 ''They tripped, and they tripped in public,'' says Paul L. Schaye, managing director of Chestnut Hill Partners, based in New York, which helps private equity firms find investments. ''That hurts the brand.''
 Carlyle's woes reflect those of the whole private equity industry. After low interest rates and a booming stock market fueled record deal volume in 2006 and 2007, the pace of buyouts has screeched to a halt. The subprime crisis, rising interest rates and a shrinking appetite for stock offerings have choked off the industry's main sources of profit.
 As banks balked at extending credit, announced buyouts globally plummeted 63 percent in the second half of 2007 to $200.8 billion, from $542.0 billion in the first half, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 The slump worsened in the first quarter, when $60.7 billion of deals were announced globally, down 70 percent from $200 billion a year earlier. Carlyle's total plummeted to just $568.6 million in the first quarter, an 86 percent drop from $4 billion a year earlier.
 ''The Greek gods reminded us that golden ages end, and not always happily,'' Mr. Rubenstein, a slender 58-year-old with silver hair and glasses, said in a talk at a private equity conference in December in Dubai, where Carlyle set up an office in 2007.
 Carlyle is counting on its head start in international markets to help it weather the turbulence. Mr. Rubenstein predicts that within five years, about two-thirds of the firm's investments will be in companies outside the United States. Currently, 64 percent is in North America.
 Carlyle itself has been hit by the markets' edginess. Last year it postponed plans for an initial public offering. Instead, the Mubadala Development Company, an arm of the Abu Dhabi government, bought 7.5 percent of Carlyle for $1.35 billion in September.
 To continue to attract investors, Carlyle needs new markets. Last year, Carlyle began raising a $750 million Middle East fund -- its first -- which aims at taking stakes in local family-owned companies or making buyouts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David M. Rubenstein at a Washington appearance last year. ''Golden ages end,'' he has said, ''and not always happily.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BONDS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); NURSING HOMES (70%); BOND FUNDS (66%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (55%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (55%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); CARLYLE CAPITAL CORP LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



45 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: For a 4th Month, Shoppers Curtail the Desire to Spend

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Consumer spending barely budged in March, the fourth month in a row that Americans eschewed the shopping mall, seeking to conserve cash in an economic downturn. 
 Americans had plenty of reasons not to spend: workers' wages continued to grow at an anemic pace, even as higher prices for food and gasoline pinched pocketbooks, according to a report released Thursday by the Commerce Department.
 Spending grew 0.1 percent in March when adjusted for inflation, after staying flat in February and rising slightly in January, the report said. At the end of last year, spending actually declined. 
 ''What you've got here is a very dramatic consumer slowdown,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics. ''It's much more severe than anything we saw in 2001,'' he added, referring to the most recent recession. 
 Unadjusted consumer spending rose 0.4 percent in March, more than expected, but that figure did not take into account the immense price run-up in food and gasoline. 
 Most of the money that was spent went toward services, including necessities like haircuts and medical care. Sales of big-ticket items like washing machines and television sets declined in March, the report said, a signal that Americans were putting off large-scale purchases, which are commonly bought on credit. In the first quarter, sales of those goods plummeted 6.1 percent.
 ''It's very disconcerting,'' Mr. Shepherdson said. ''About half of all consumption is not really discretionary, it's things like food, energy, medical costs, over which people have very little control in the short run.''
 Part of the problem is that the spending power of many Americans has declined. Incomes rose just 0.3 percent in March, down from a 0.5 percent increase in February. After taxes, and adjusted for inflation, income was flat for the month. 
 But Americans are being forced to spend more despite their stagnant wages. Inflation, already elevated, accelerated in March, the report said; consumer prices are now 3.2 percent higher than a year ago. For the month, prices were up 0.3 percent in March after rising 0.1 percent in February. 
 The report does not bode well for the economy's prospects, specialists said. Consumer spending is the primary engine of the economy, accounting for more than two-thirds of gross domestic product. If those pistons start to slow, the system is likely to sputter to a halt.
 A Commerce Department report on the economy's performance in the first quarter, released Wednesday, showed consumption at its weakest point since the recession of 2001.
 Spending is expected to tick up slightly after the government mails out tax rebates in an effort to stimulate the economy. But economists said the rebates were unlikely to prop up sales for long. 
 ''The worry is that after that relief fades away, the consumer will still be faced with the same underlying problems,'' Nigel Gault, an economist at Global Insight, a forecasting firm, wrote in a client note. ''Any burst of spending based on the stimulus payments is likely to prove short-lived.''
 Thursday's report also provided little comfort to the Federal Reserve, which is trying to avoid a recession while keeping price pressures in check.
 The Fed, in determining inflation dangers, is said to keep close track of a figure in the Commerce report that measures prices of goods excluding energy and food products, which are considered volatile from month to month. This figure, known as the core personal consumption expenditures price deflator, rose to 2.1 percent in March, from 2 percent in February, slightly above the Fed's presumed ''comfort zone.''
 Separate reports on Thursday revealed problems in the construction and manufacturing sectors, which have been battered in the last year by the housing slump. Residential construction fell sharply in March, shrinking 4.6 percent as builders cut back on groundbreakings or stopped work on projects. Over all, spending on construction declined 1.1 percent in March after rising 0.4 percent in February, the Commerce Department said.
 The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index, a bellwether of manufacturing activity, stayed flat in April as companies laid off workers. The index was unchanged at 48.6. Inventories and export orders rose, but new orders flattened.
 Wall Street is keeping a close eye on the Labor Department's report on April unemployment, which will be released Friday. Economists predict that employers shed up to 75,000 jobs last month, a forecast bolstered by a report on Thursday that new claims for unemployment benefits rose by 35,000 last week, to 380,000. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The manufacturing sector has been battered in the last year because of the housing slump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) GRAPHS: CONSTRUCTION SPENDING: Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department)
PERSONAL INCOME: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department)
 JOBLESS CLAIMS: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) Graphs showing construction spending, personal income and jobless claims. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RECESSION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (79%); FOOD PRICES (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TAX RELIEF (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TAX LAW (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



46 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Oakland Teach-In Looks at Budget Cuts and the War

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
Third period at Paul Robeson High School in East Oakland was pretty much what you might expect on a sunny Thursday afternoon at the end of the term: distracted students, talk of graduation and nearly silent response to teachers' questions.
 Until, of course, the topic turned to the recent cuts in the state's education budget. 
 ''We don't have any money because it's all going to the war,'' said Ashley Lawless, a 18-year-old senior who moments before had been obsessively fixing her hair. ''And now they're shutting all this stuff down.''
 That kind of angry outburst may have been precisely the point of a daylong act of educational disobedience undertaken on Thursday by about two dozen teachers across Oakland, who set aside their normal lesson plans in favor of topics like the war in Iraq, racial inequality and a recent 10 percent cut in the state schools budget. 
 Craig Gordon, a social studies teacher at Robeson and the author of the day's curriculum, said the goal was to raise awareness among students who may not have a firm grasp of the relationship between what happens at home and what happens ''out there.'' 
 ''I wanted them to actively think about the priorities of society, because they are the ones who are going to be most affected,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''They are the ones that need to be informed so they can make a decision on whether they want to do something about it.''
 The so-called teach-in was just one of a series of May Day events in California, including a work stoppage at several ports and large pro-immigrant demonstrations. Mr. Gordon's classes were about a third empty because of a walkout by Latino students, some of whom chanted for immigrant rights outside the school's fences.
 For those in school, however, the topics being bandied about were far juicier than the average civics class. Teachers from elementary school to adult education classes allowed students to discuss everything from whether the United States was committing acts of violence against innocent people to whether American businesses were getting rich on the backs of the poor.
 One worksheet handed out to students was blunt in its assessment of the current events: ''About 1,000,000 Iraqis are dead and 4,000 American soldiers. The war will cost the U.S. about $2.8 trillion. Our schools don't have money. Many people don't have health care.'' 
 And while district officials did not officially sanction Thursday's change in curriculum, they did not seem to mind, either.
 ''We recognize that a comprehensive education needs to consider the subjects that are taught in relation to current events,'' said Troy Flint, a district spokesman. ''And today's lessons exemplify that.''
 School districts across the state have voiced their displeasure with the cuts in financing, which come as California faces a $14.5 billion deficit. But perhaps nowhere have the objections been more pronounced than in Oakland, a historically underfinanced district of some 39,000 students, many of them poor. The district essentially went bankrupt in 2003 and was taken over by the state, though it has recently resumed local control over some administrative functions, Mr. Flint said. 
 On Wednesday, members of the school board and local leaders rallied to protest the recent cuts and unveiled several proposals meant to help generate funds, including closing a loophole on a state yacht tax. More unusual, the district is also praising a plan to ask residents in Democratic-led legislative districts to ''call, e-mail, and/or send a postcard'' to residents in Republican districts to try to drum up support for increased taxes on oil, vehicles and the wealthy.
 ''People just seem to tune out, because every year there seems to be a budget crisis,'' said Kerry Hamill, a board member who organized the rally on Wednesday. ''We wanted people to know that this one is different.'' 
 The question of whether such nonviolent means really work also had students debating in a rickety modular classroom at Oakland High School during Thursday's teaching of the alternate curriculum. 
 Taurus Hamilton, a junior, said he was not sure. 
 ''Sometimes you need some violence to show people that you got something to say,'' Mr. Hamilton said. ''Sometimes you got to show people what you're willing to do to get what you need.''
 A classmate, Vanessa Dilworth, disagreed. ''That's not right,'' she said. ''If you don't do it a peaceful way, there's people that are going to beat you down. It's like Martin Luther King versus Malcolm X.'' 
 Their teacher, Ben Visnick, came down firmly on the side of nonviolence, but let the students battle it out verbally for several minutes. A former president of the teachers' union, which helped organize Thursday's curriculum shift, Mr. Visnick said earlier classes had sparred over the economy and the school system's budget, which is never far from some students' minds. 
 ''Most of our students are working class or poor,'' Mr. Visnick said. ''And they know that the deck is not always stacked fairly.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Visnick, a history teacher, led a class discussion on Thursday of the Vietnam and Iraq wars. Oakland, Calif., schools also considered topics like education budget cuts and racial inequality.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); PORT STRIKES (63%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



47 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: Going All Out for the Games

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Beijing airport's new Terminal 3 -- twice the size of the Pentagon -- is the largest building in the world. 
 Adorned with the colors of imperial China and a roof that evokes the scales of a dragon, the massive glass- and steel-sheathed structure, designed by the renowned British architect Norman Foster, cost $3.8 billion and can handle more than 50 million passengers a year. The developers call it the ''most advanced airport building in the world,'' and say it was completed in less than four years, a timetable some believed impossible. 
 It opened in late February with little fanfare, but also without the kind of glitches that plagued the new $8.7 billion terminal at Heathrow in London, a project that took six years to complete.
 This is the image China would like to project as it hosts the Olympic Games this summer -- a confident rising power constructing dazzling monuments exemplifying its rapid progress and its audacious ambition. 
 While much of the world has focused on protests trailing the Olympic torch, China's poor human rights record, its pollution, product safety and child labor scandals, workers here have been putting the finishing touches on one of the biggest building programs the world has ever seen.
 Beijing hopes to overcome these negatives, and the dark sides of its roaring economy, by emphasizing its ability to upgrade and modernize, at least when it comes to buildings and infrastructure projects. The main Olympic stadium, nicknamed the Bird's Nest, is already widely admired for its striking appearance and its use of an unusual steel mesh exterior. The nearby National Aquatics Center, known as the Water Cube, is a translucent blue bubble that glows in the dark. 
 And east of the main Olympic arenas, construction is winding down on the new headquarters of the country's main state television network, China Central Television, or CCTV. 
 That $700 million building, designed by Rem Koolhaas, consists of two interlocking Z-shaped towers that rise 767 feet and may be the world's largest and most expensive media headquarters. 
 New York has the Chrysler Building, Grand Central and the Guggenheim Museum; Paris has the Louvre and the Pompidou Center; now Beijing is determined to build its own architectural icons. 
 ''Beijing is a huge experimental site right now,'' says Zhu Wenyi, dean of the school of architecture at Tsinghua University. ''This modern architecture is the identity of modern China.''
 But sometimes the sheer scale of the buildings overwhelms everything else. Thirty years after economic reforms began, this country has built a series of super structures that almost seem intended more for the Guinness Book of World Records than cityscapes.
 China is home, for instance, to the world's largest shopping mall (the seven-million-square-foot South China Mall); the longest sea-crossing bridge (it stretches 36 kilometers, or about 22 miles, over part of the East China Sea); the largest hydroelectric dam (the Three Gorges project); and the highest railway (an engineering marvel that crosses the Tibetan permafrost 16,000 feet above sea level, the so-called roof of the world). 
 Late last year, Beijing opened what may be the world's largest performance hall, the National Center for the Performing Arts, a $400 million concert hall, opera house and theater center even bigger than the Kennedy Center in Washington. Nicknamed The Egg, the Chinese center's titanium dome rises above a wide reflecting pool. 
 For decades, the ruling Communist Party used huge building programs to lure foreign investment and to create millions of jobs. But this new wave is different.
 ''This is just the start,'' said Ma Yansong, a 32-year-old architect who studied in the United States and runs a practice here. ''The last 10 years we've had landmark buildings in Beijing and Shanghai. But now, the private developers are coming in, and second-tier cities want to develop.''
 In recent weeks, many Chinese have complained about what they say is Western media distortions about China and its role in Tibet, where riots broke out last month.
 Indeed, behind the increasingly nationalistic counterprotests is a fear that China's Olympic moment is being overshadowed by critics and that the country's remarkable achievements are being ignored. 
 Many Chinese say that will change on Aug. 8, 2008 -- an auspicious date by traditional reckoning because 8 is a lucky number -- as the world focuses on the Olympics and China's undeniable accomplishments.
 In Beijing, officials have used the Olympics to justify razing old neighborhoods and relocating tens of thousands of poor residents, with hopes of remaking the city into a modern capital of new highways, subway lines and gleaming skyscrapers.
 Similarly, city officials in Shanghai have relocated huge factories and thousands of residents along the Huangpu River to prepare a two-square-mile site for the 2010 World Expo, Shanghai's own coming-out.
 With China rapidly urbanizing, there are now dozens of other big cities developing master plans and commissioning new skyscrapers, expressways and whole shopping districts.
 In Macao, one of China's special administrative zones, the Las Vegas-based Sands Corporation built a 10.5-million-square-foot casino, hotel and convention center, which opened last summer to huge crowds.
 Not everyone, however, is pleased with the development transforming China's cities. Old neighborhoods and important historical buildings are being demolished. Expressways and skyscrapers have erased cultural signposts. Even some leading Chinese architects and urban planners are crying foul. And all this growth depends largely on energy derived from coal, which fouls the air, distracting from China's gleaming new palaces.
 Others complain that too many foreign architects are being showcased, at the expense of China's home-grown talent, that Chinese elements are being lost -- like Beijing's old courtyard-style homes -- and that overaggressive development is littering the landscape with modern monstrosities.
 ''I'm completely against this big architecture; it's a total waste,'' says Yin Zhi, president of the urban planning and design institute at Tsinghua University. ''The government wants to grab the Olympic opportunity to remake Beijing, spending so much money on these stupid projects. Why not use the budget to improve Beijing's traffic system? Why not improve the quality of people's lives?''
 Professor Yin went on: ''China, as a developing country, is not supposed to spend so much on these eye-catching projects. It shows in some ways that China lacks confidence.''
 But Beijing seems eager to show the world it can attract world-class architects to China, and it has lured big names, including Zaha Hadid, a distinguished architect from London.
 Local developers are rushing to capitalize on this moment of extreme transformation. A rising middle class and the emergence of a car culture in China are creating opportunities to build new cities and suburbs, and many cities want to prove they are fast-developing, hoping to lure even more investment.
 With the economy booming, air travel has also skyrocketed, creating demand for new airports. Indeed, even after a building boom over the past decade, the government says it plans to build another 97 new airports by 2020.
 Here in Beijing, the construction of Terminal 3 was accelerated to meet the surge in air travel into the capital, and to create a dazzling new gateway to the city in time for the Olympics.
 Foster & Partners, the British architectural firm, won the design competition less than five years ago, in late 2003. The firm quickly set up an office here and in March 2004 began work on a 14-million-square-foot project that would eventually dwarf all five of Heathrow's terminals combined.
 The developers wanted to incorporate Chinese characteristics, so they sought the advice of a feng shui master. They selected red and gold as the dominant colors, to match those of old palaces and the Forbidden City. 
 Then they raced the clock.
 ''In November 2003, we were awarded the contract,'' says Mouzhan Majidi, the lead architect on the project for Foster & Partners. ''Within a week, we had to have a Foster office in Beijing.''
 Siemens, the German company, built a sophisticated baggage handling system that can sort and transport 19,200 pieces of luggage an hour through the nearly two-mile-long building. Workers lifted and placed a giant roof designed to look like the scales of a dragon. 
 The building opened ahead of schedule, largely because Beijing had turned the site into a 24-hour-a-day operation, with tens of thousands of workers living on the airport grounds. It is the kind of operation that can be found only in China.
 Beijing supplied an army of workers. ''When I think back to our site visits with Norman, it was an incredible scene to see 50,000 people working on a building,'' says Mr. Majidi, who works closely with Norman Foster, the Pritzker Prize-winning architect. ''It evoked what it might have been like to build the pyramids.''
 Still, it may not be big enough. 
 In January, Beijing's civil aviation authority announced that yet another international airport was needed in the city. Construction is expected to begin soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The recently opened Terminal 3 at Beijing Capital International Airport, above, has many amenities for travelers, like a teahouse, below. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, CHINA PHOTOS/GETTY IMAGES
BELOW, FENG LI/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C1)
The Forest Park station is one of three stops along a special subway system being built to serve the Olympic Games in Beijing, which will be held this August. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLOR CHINA PHOTO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C4)
The vast Terminal 3 building's roof, left, is designed to evoke the scales of a dragon. Right, the exit of the huge terminal, built to handle 50 million passengers a year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUANG NU/GETTY IMAGES
 FENG LI/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (88%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); OLYMPIC TORCH PROTESTS (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); CHILD LABOR (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (74%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



48 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: A Big Rally as Two Worries Ease a Bit

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street shot higher on Thursday as investors saw a rising dollar and falling oil prices as promising signs for the economy. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average soared nearly 190 points to close above 13,000 for the first time since January.
 The dollar jumped on better-than-expected economic data and the Federal Reserve's apparent resolve to keep inflation in check. The Commerce Department said consumer spending rose 0.4 percent in March, more than predicted, and the Institute for Supply Management said American manufacturing contracted in April by a bit less than forecast. 
 The readings were not all positive; the uptick in consumer spending was mostly because of rising energy and food prices. The I.S.M.'s report also indicated that companies were hurting from climbing costs.
 But the dollar, which has been strengthening recently after a protracted decline, rallied anyway, pushing the euro down more than 1 percent, to $1.5461 in late trading. 
 Trading was thin, with major currency markets in London and elsewhere closed for the May Day holiday, but the dollar's advance helped crude oil fall briefly near $110 a barrel and then settle at $112.52. That eased some of the inflation-related anxieties in the market, given that crude recently traded at a record near $120 a barrel.
 The Dow closed up 189.87, or 1.48 percent, to 13,010.00, after briefly rising more than 200 points. It had not closed above 13,000 since Jan. 3, when it ended at 13,056.72; the Dow is still down 8.15 percent from its record close of 14,164.53, reached on Oct. 9, 2007, before the brunt of the credit crisis hit Wall Street.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 23.75, or 1.71 percent, to 1,409.34, its first settlement above 1,400 since Jan. 14. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 67.91, or 2.81 percent, to 2,480.71, its highest close since Jan. 10.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 13.57, or 1.89 percent, to 729.75.
 ''What we're seeing is that maybe the economy is not falling off a cliff, but perhaps leveling off,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at the New York-based brokerage house Avalon Partners. 
 Banks, home builders, chip makers and retailers surged after being battered this year.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 9/32, to 97 27/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.76 percent, from 3.73 percent.
 Gold prices dropped as the dollar moved higher against other currencies.
 The Labor Department's employment report on Friday is expected to show a net loss of 75,000 jobs for April -- the fourth consecutive month of decline -- and a rise in unemployment to 5.2 percent, from 5.1 percent in March. 
 But with government stimulus checks being sent to taxpayers and Fed rate cuts still working their way through the financial system, many investors are focused on the second half of the year when they are betting the economy will rebound.
 Shares of Exxon Mobil, one of the 30 Dow components, declined $3.37, or 3.6 percent, to $89.70, after it said its first-quarter profit rose 17 percent, to $11 billion -- not as high as analysts expected, despite record-high oil prices. Lower production volumes caused the company's profit margins to shrink.
 Citigroup rose $1.04, or 4.1 percent, to $25.99; Bank of America was up $1.85, or 4.9 percent, to $39.39; and JPMorgan Chase added $1.60, or 3.4 percent, to $49.25.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); EURO (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (60%); CLIMBING (59%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



49 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 6409 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 WAYNE THIEBAUD: 'THE FIGURE' In the 1960s Wayne Thiebaud reanimated the traditional still life. His thickly painted pictures of pies, cakes and other food products in cafeteria-style order had terrific visual snap, and they subtly satirized the mechanization of modern life. 
 Mr. Thiebaud did something similar with figure painting, as this excellent show of paintings and drawings dating from 1963 to 1992 demonstrates. The drawings are mostly in pencil, and most are coolly libidinous studies of nude female models. A few portray clothed men sitting on chairs, like ''Man Reading,'' right. All are compelling for their skillful draftsmanship and their detached yet affectionate attentiveness. 
 The show's main attraction is a set of six oil paintings from the '60s. Each depicts a single figure isolated against a blank wall. Like the food paintings, they are thickly done in high-contrast colors, and the realism is simplified to almost cartoonish, Pop Artish effect. A slightly melancholy emotional distance calls to mind Edward Hopper. 
 Sitting sideways on a wooden chair, a young woman in blue shoes and a colorfully striped miniskirt gazes vacantly into space. She seems both ordinary and tantalizingly enigmatic. Erotic interest is heightened in three other paintings of women, all young, voluptuous and nude. One sits at a table on which lies a mysteriously suggestive hand mirror, a traditional attribute of Venus. 
 The men are comical. A heavyset fellow in a business suit hunches over a book, presenting the bright dome of his bald head. An uncomfortable-looking young man in a suit and tie stands against a wall, as if in a police lineup. They are like John Cheever characters, men of the '50s soon to be swept up in the craziness of the '60s. (Through May 30, Allan Stone Gallery, 113 East 90th Street, Manhattan, 212-987-4997, allanstonegallery.com.) KEN JOHNSON
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'ASA AMES: OCCUPATION SCULPTURING,' through Sept. 14. This first show devoted to the American sculptor Asa Ames (1823-1851) is a gem. Its eight carved and painted wood portraits -- roughly two-thirds of the work of Ames's brief maturity -- introduce an artist who translated the style of self-taught American portrait painters into three dimensions, imbuing their artificiality with the sense of suspended life found in 19th-century photography. A crowded, wonderfully bizarre photograph that Ames orchestrated of himself, his work and a friend is a poignant tribute to his ambition. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'DARGERISM: CONTEMPORARY ARTISTS AND HENRY DARGER,' through Sept. 21. The great Outsider Henry Darger (1892-1973) was completely unknown as an artist during his own lifetime. Now his epic adventure, ''The Story of the Vivian Girls, in What Is Known as the Realms of the Unreal, of the Glandeco-Angelinnian War Storm, Caused by the Child Slave Rebellion'' is famous and a big influence on mainstream artists. This intriguing exhibition presents 12 of Darger's gorgeous, bizarre watercolors and works by 11 contemporary artists who have been inspired by him, including Justine Kurland, Trenton Doyle Hancock and, most surprisingly, Paula Rego. (See above.) (Ken Johnson)
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'EARL CUNNINGHAM'S AMERICA,' through Aug. 31. The folk artist Earl Cunningham (1893-1977) romanticized the American landscape without hyperbole. Cunningham didn't suffuse his paintings with divine light or invoke manifest destiny, like the Hudson River School artists; he simply showed the many small interactions of the Atlantic coastal ecosystem -- a delicate balance of dock workers, harbor pilots, fishermen, farmers, waterfowl and American Indian tribes. Some 50 of Cunningham's cheerful, intensely colored paintings are on view at the Lincoln Square branch of the American Folk Art Museum. Whether you think of Cunningham as a folk artist or a Modernist, his paintings display an intuitive grace. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue between 65th and 66th Streets, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: '$;MURAKAMI,' through July 13. Bring the kids and the shopping-centered tweens. This survey of Takashi Murakami, the artist frequently called the Japanese Andy Warhol, has it all: immense, toylike sculptures; an animated cartoon that rivals Disney; and a fully functioning Louis Vuitton boutique (Brooklyn's first!) selling Murakami bags. But it also elucidates the trajectory of an artist who began by recycling Japanese popular culture and then gradually figured out how to go deeper, harnessing Japanese traditions of painting, craft and spirituality. The art-commerce, high-low conundrums are fun, but the steady improvement in the paintings is the real heart of the matter. Along with the animated cartoons, which should please aesthetes of all ages, there is a moral component as well. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Smith) 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'UTAGAWA: MASTERS OF THE JAPANESE PRINT, 1770-1900,' through June 15. This fascinating show tells the story of a group of artists that dominated the woodblock print business in Japan for much of the 19th century. Not everything in it is a masterpiece, but among its 95 prints are stunning portraits of actors, geishas and warriors; colorful retellings of old myths; views of contemporary urban life; and gorgeous, poetically captivating landscapes. (See above.) (Johnson)
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'ROCOCO: THE CONTINUING CURVE, 1730-2008,' through July 6. This enthralling show has an extraordinarily high sumptuousness quotient. It explores the 18th-century Rococo style and its legacy, with a focus on furniture, ceramic vases, jewelry, mirrors, snuff boxes and other sorts of domestic ware. It includes works from most of the countries that Rococo reached, from Germany to Guatemala; takes in 19th-century Rococo revivals; and pursues the spirit if not the actual style of Rococo into the 20th century and beyond. 2 East 91st Street, Manhattan, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Johnson)
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'ART DOES NOT EQUAL LIFE: ACTIONS BY ARTISTS OF THE AMERICAS, 1960-2000,' through May 18. The redefinition of modernism(s) through the illumination of its Latin American manifestations has been one of the joys of the current New York art season. This revelatory addition concentrates on the Happenings, Conceptual and Performance Art and Body Art and video that thrived in Latin America despite, or in response to, dire political and economic situations. With photographic and video documentation in the majority, the toughness and scope of the material, aided by a thoughtful installation, create their own fascination. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Smith) 
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CAI GUO-QIANG: I WANT TO BELIEVE,' through May 28. This museumwide survey of a leading Chinese artist indicates considerable command of cross-cultural references and extreme appropriation, including a gang of sculptors remaking a classic Social Realist ensemble of life-size figures while you watch. Gunpowder is a favored material, violence a frequent motif. A stop-action installation of seemingly exploding cars hangs in the atrium space. Scores of arrows make pincushions of snarling tigers (stuffed), and there are carved-wood religious sculptures and an entire fishing boat. Videos documenting pyrotechnical land-art pieces go boom. The show has far more than its share of hollow spectacle. The scorched, mural-size gunpowder drawings that combine elements of performance art, Abstract Expressionism and traditional Chinese and Japanese painting are the most believable. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'THE GENIUS OF JAPANESE LACQUER: MASTERWORKS BY SHIBATA ZESHIN,' through June 15. In Japan, before there was plastic, there was lacquer. Shiny, waterproof and lightweight, it made an excellent coating for wooden cups, bowls, utensils and food storage containers. In the hands of a skilled, ingenious artisan like Shibata Zeshin (1807-1891) it was a high art. This beautiful show presents almost 75 objects -- many dumbfoundingly sumptuous -- and paintings by this man, considered the greatest of all Japanese lacquer artists. 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Johnson)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'WARHOL'S JEWS: TEN PORTRAITS RECONSIDERED,' through Aug. 3. In 1980 Andy Warhol produced a series of portraits of famous Jews, including Sigmund Freud, Gertrude Stein and the Marx Brothers. When they appeared at the Jewish Museum that year, the critics hated them. But they were warmly received by Jewish audiences when they were exhibited in museums and Jewish institutions around the country. Viewing them in this return engagement, it is hard to imagine anyone growing very excited for or against such bland, posterlike images. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'JEFF KOONS ON THE ROOF,' through Oct. 26. Panoramic views of Central Park and the Manhattan skyline from the Cantor Roof Garden are distracting, but the three sculptures now on display there are well worth visiting. Each is a greatly enlarged, glossily lacquered, stainless-steel representation of something small: a toy dog made of twisted-together balloons; a Valentine heart wrapped in red foil; and the silhouette of Piglet from a Winnie the Pooh coloring book randomly colored, as if by a young child. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'GUSTAVE COURBET,' through May 18. Starting with an amazing if claustrophobic gallery of self-portraits that emphasize Courbet's ambition, attention to the old masters and inborn truculence, this show offers a grand tour of one of 19th-century European painting's most unruly geniuses. Realism, at whose prow he is usually placed, is in many ways the least of it. Several works could easily date from the 20th century, by artists like Balthus, Picabia or Max Ernst. What Courbet made most real was the sheer, implicitly ironic uncanniness of painting itself, which he conveyed in a commanding discombobulation. Some paintings barely hold together; others collapse inward into strange, shapeless masses. No artist before Picasso put so much of himself on canvas; few since have built in so many spatial booby traps, ambiguous feelings or elements of rebellion and dissent. Some were conscious; others were left for us to discover, to feel in our bones. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'POUSSIN AND NATURE: ARCADIAN VISIONS,' through May 11. If a painter can be judged by the love he inspires, Nicholas Poussin (1594-1665) was one of art history's great valentines. Corot, Delacroix, Constable and Cezanne all adored him. So did Picasso and Matisse. You can see why in this show of his post-Classical, pre-Romantic landscapes and drawings. Every age has a different style for ''serious'' in art; Poussin's was different from our own, but enthralling and moving in its moral gravity and poise. (See above.) (Cotter) 
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ILLUMINATING THE MEDIEVAL HUNT,' through Aug. 10. As part of a conservation effort, the Morgan Library's 14th-century hunting manuscript ''Le Livre de la Chasse'' has been temporarily unbound, affording viewers a rare opportunity to study the individual pages. Fifty illustrated leaves are on view in this show, along with other manuscripts and printed books from the 11th to the 16th century. Gaston Phoebus's authoritative text examines the characteristics of various wild animals, explores different methods of hunting and provides instruction on caring for hounds. ''Le Livre de la Chasse'' was written for medieval aristocrats, but it will appeal to contemporary athletes, nature lovers and dog owners. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN DIASPORAN ARTS: DREAD SCOTT: 'WELCOME TO AMERICA,' through June 1. Dread Scott's installation with an American flag on the floor caused a flap in 1989 when the first President Bush disapproved, and this New York artist continues to make issue-specific work in a classic political-art mode. The installations, sculptures and videos in this survey dramatize Hurricane Katrina, the incarceration of black males and the Iraq war as if they were all part of a single national problem, and he argues forcefully that they are. 80 Hanson Place, at South Portland Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0492, mocada.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COLOR CHART: REINVENTING COLOR, 1950 TO TODAY,' through May 12. Organized by Ann Temkin, a curator in the museum's department of painting and sculpture, color functions as a ready-made in ''Color Chart'' -- something to be bought or appropriated, rather than mixed on a palette. The show is a rejoinder to the notion of color as the province of formalists, and to the idea that Minimal and Conceptual art comes only in shades of black, white and gray. In the upper section of the lobby a floor created by the artist Jim Lambie surrounds concentric strips of brightly hued tape. In the galleries there are postwar classics by Ellsworth Kelly, Robert Rauschenberg and Sherrie Levine. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART AND P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'TAKE YOUR TIME: OLAFUR ELIASSON,' through June 30. Near the end of a decade crammed with junk-art collectibles geared to junk-bond budgets, we get bare walls, open space, light and color in this survey of work by an artist, born in Denmark in 1967, who is well known for creating immaterialist magic through bare-bones means: literally, in some cases, mist and mirrors. As optically enchanting as the results are, though, in the end we are left wanting more from Mr. Eliasson's less. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Cotter)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'GUSTAV KLIMT: THE RONALD S. LAUDER AND SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTIONS,' through June 30. The first New York museum show devoted exclusively to this Viennese master is less a coherent Klimt exhibition than a Klimt-o-rama. The main draw is a veritable retrospective of the drawings, erotic and otherwise, and a smattering of paintings starring the new-in-town, gold-on-gold ''Adele Bloch-Bauer I.'' Also here: a photo mural of sections of Klimt's most famous painted mural, the ''Beethoven Frieze''; a period room; photographs and personal effects, including one of the artist's signature caftans; and piped-in music, all written in Vienna of course, and available for purchase on CD. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'WIENER WERKSTaTTE JEWELRY,' through June 30. Founded in 1903, the Wiener Werkstatte, or Vienna Workshops, set out to prove that the modern world still needed fine craftsmanship and good design. Its first product was jewelry, of which this stunning exhibition presents 40 gorgeous examples. Works in gold, silver and semi-precious stones by the workshop's co-founders, Josef Hoffmann and Koloman Moser, and others -- including, most notably, Dagobert Peche -- magically blur the line between personal ornament and miniature sculpture. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'TOMMA ABTS,' through June 29. The small, hard-edged abstractions by this German-born painter, who is based in London and was the 2006 Turner Prize winner, are not showy, but they are intensely absorbing. Basic, formal elements like stripes, arcs, circles, planes and polygons are carefully layered, juxtaposed and interwoven in all sorts of subtly eccentric ways. Ms. Abts's colors are muted but seductive, and she adds highlights and shadows, creating mysterious, three-dimensional illusions. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES LIBRARY: 'MONUMENTAL FRANCE: THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF EDOUARD BALDUS' AND SKETCHES ON GLASS: CLICHES-VERRE FROM THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY,' through June 28. This pair of exhibitions focuses on the experimental period after the birth of photography (the 1850s through the 1870s). Film had not yet been invented, but glass-plate and paper negatives allowed artists to micromanage the camera's performance or to bypass it entirely. ''Monumental France: The Photographs of Edouard Baldus'' gathers 38 artisanal prints of French architectural landmarks. ''Sketches on Glass: Cliches-Verre From the New York Public Library'' presents prints made with hand-drawn glass plates on light-sensitive paper (no camera required). Together these shows reveal that artists in mid-19th-century France blurred the distinction between the photograph and the unique object. Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street, (212) 930-0830, nypl.org. (Rosenberg)
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'DESIGN: ISAMU KENMOCHI AND ISAMU NOGUCHI,' through May 25. The Bamboo Basket Chair was the result of a brief collaboration in 1950 between the Japanese-American sculptor and designer Isamu Noguchi (1904-88) and the Japanese industrial designer Isamu Kenmochi (1912-71). The chair was never manufactured, and the prototype was lost. The example here was recreated from photographs. Mostly, however, the chair provides an excuse to compare the design careers of Noguchi and Kenmochi and examine their roles in midcentury modern design, as well as the cultural relationship between Japan and the United States. Kenmochi's ''Japanese modern'' furniture is here, as well as a room devoted to Noguchi's most popular design achievement, the Akari light sculptures. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Martha Schwendener)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'WACK! ART AND THE FEMINIST REVOLUTION,' through May 12. This big, messy, fascinating scrapbook of a show focuses on the years between the mid-1960s and the early '80s, when feminism had its most intense impact on contemporary art. Presenting works by 120 women, it is uneven in quality, but the overall effect is exciting. It takes you back to a heady time when women were throwing out old, patriarchal laws and reinventing art in all kinds of idiosyncratic and sometimes dangerously extreme terms. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'FLOW,' through June 29. Afropolitanism is the modish tag for recent work by young African artists. What unites them is a shared view of Africa, less as a place than as a concept, a cultural force -- one that runs through the world the way a gulf stream runs through an ocean, part of the whole, but with its own tides and temperatures. This idea, or something like it, lies behind ''Flow,'' a fine-textured survey of 20 artists who, with a few exceptions, were born in Africa after 1970 but who now live in Europe or the United States. The show is a worthy successor to ''Freestyle'' and ''Frequency,'' benchmark surveys of new African-American art. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'WHITNEY BIENNIAL 2008,' through June 1. This year's light-touch show takes lowered expectations -- lessness, ephemerality and failure, to use the words of its young curators, Henriette Huldisch and Shamim M. Momin -- as its theme, and makes at least an appearance of trying to circumvent an object-obsessed market. With 81 artists, this is the smallest Biennial in a while, and feels that way, even as it fills three floors and more of the museum, and continues at the Park Avenue Armory (at 67th Street), with a program of installation and performance art. If the overall mix feels uncharismatic, there are good artists on hand, most with work commissioned by the museum for the occasion. In an anti-triumphalist show, uncertainty, political and existential, rules. 945 Madison Avenue at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 'WINE, WORSHIP AND SACRIFICE: THE GOLDEN GRAVES OF ANCIENT VANI' In small but elegant new galleries, a study center founded in 2006 under the auspices of New York University presents its inaugural exhibition. This show offers more than 100 objects unearthed from ancient graves in Vani, a cosmopolitan city established in Colchis -- modern-day Georgia -- in the eighth century B.C. It includes beautiful, intricate gold jewelry discovered in grave sites of the rich and powerful; the life-size bronze torso of a youth made in classic Hellenistic style; and two strikingly exotic bronze lamps with functional parts in the form of elephant heads. Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, 15 East 84th Street, (212) 992-7810, nyu.edu/isaw, through June 1. (Johnson)
 Galleries: SoHo
 'SUBSTRACTION' This show of large-scale paintings by six young artists proposes a new fusion of postwar abstraction and graffiti art. Despite an infectious spirit, originality is scarce. Reason for going: three canvases by Sterling Ruby push spray-can painting to new heights of atmospheric toxicity that some are calling ''Gangsta Rothkos.'' Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, near Grand Street, (212) 343-7300, deitch.com, through May 24. (Smith)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 KENNETH TIN-KIN HUNG: 'RESIDENTIAL ERECTION' Looking at Mr. Hung's art is like peeking into the fever dream of an overworked political blogger. In a John Heartfield-meets-Monty Python style, his manic, computer-animated montages gleefully skewer all comers, left and right, including President Bush, Rush Limbaugh, Oprah Winfrey, Michael Moore and the current and former contenders in this year's presidential race. Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, (212) 727-3323, postmastersart.com, through May 10. (Johnson) 
 MCDERMOTT & MCGOUGH: 'DETROIT' The McDermott & McGough Wayback machine is now parked in the American 1950s. Though predictably campy, the duo's treatment of this destination is impressively suave and emotionally complex. This exhibition at Nicholas Robinson consists of extraordinarily lucid, richly colored staged photographs resembling stills from an old film about teenage love, desire, wanderlust and guilt. Nicholas Robinson, 535 West 20th Street, (212) 560-9075, nrgallery.com, through May 17. (Ken Johnson)
 SCOTT OLSON The small paintings in this artist's first solo show filter a loosely Constructivist geometry through the scale and turned-in concentration of manuscript illumination. Their outsize emphasis on process, amplified by contrasting techniques, colors and surfaces, makes them extra engrossing, especially for canvases not much larger than your face. Taxter & Spengemann, 504 West 22nd Street, (212) 924-0212, taxterandspengemann.com, through May 10. (Smith)
 PIOTR UKLANSKI One of the bad boys of contemporary art goes big time and sustains quite a bit of his badness. Diverse works in a labyrinth of galleries move through the pomp and circumstance of the Communist, Roman Catholic and Modernist beliefs; Polish Christmas traditions; and the Solidarity movement, with a closing reference to the 1944 Warsaw uprising against the Germans. Festivalist identity-art spectacle is a target; yet a sense of Polish suffering and pride comes across. Gagosian Gallery, 522 West 21st Street, (212) 741-1717, gagosian.com, through May 17. (Smith)
 Galleries: Other
 'NEW YORK COOL: PAINTING AND SCULPTURE FROM THE N.Y.U. ART COLLECTION' This exhibition subjects the late '50s and early '60s -- a period normally seen as a transitional phase between Abstract Expressionism and Pop, Pollock and Warhol -- to intense scrutiny. It reintroduces minor characters like Seymour Lipton, Robert Goodnough and Conrad Marca-Relli, and exposes hidden sides of well-known artists (Miriam Schapiro's early geometric abstraction). It reminds us that the art world of that time was a multifarious scene shaped by artists beyond Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart, through July 19. (Rosenberg)
 BLAKE RAYNE The abstract paintings in this show, an important one for this impressive New York artist, were made with aerosol spray directed at folded, cut and stitched-together canvas. And the pictures are only part of a larger conceptual package that includes the display of the paintings' shipping containers and has involved closing the gallery for a week. Mr. Rayne's taking apart of art conventions is erudite, visually effective and of a piece: the installation looks like a cross between a paneled library and a spreading bruise. Miguel Abreu Gallery, 36 Orchard Street, Lower East Side, (212) 995-1774, miguelabreugallery.com, through May 18. (Cotter)
 'UNDER PAIN OF DEATH' This uneven show about capital punishment has too many pieces that are only indirectly related to the theme, but it has some thought-provoking works, including ''The Last Supper,'' an Errol Morris-style documentary film by Mats Bigert and Lars Bergstrom, about preparing final meals for condemned prisoners; and an understated, oddly abstracted video by Harun Farocki in which surveillance tapes reveal murderous conditions in a maximum-security prison. Austrian Cultural Form, 11 East 52nd Street, (212) 319-5300, acfny.org, through May 10. (Johnson)
 Out of Town
 SMITHSONIAN AMERICAN ART MUSEUM : 'COLOR AS FIELD: AMERICAN PAINTING, 1950-1975,' through May 26. An overdue, if far from perfect, reconsideration of Color Field painting reintroduces the joyful pictorial derring-do of an art movement partly done in by the single-minded advocacy of its biggest fan, the great American art critic Clement Greenberg. It is wonderful to see some of the best of this work float free of the Greenbergian claims for greatness and inevitability, propelled by the fantastic soft power of brilliant color, big scale and judicious amounts of pristine raw canvas -- especially as wielded by Helen Frankenthaler, Morris Louis, Kenneth Noland and Jules Olitski. Perhaps humorless power-lust prevented Greenberg from seeing that if, as he said, Abstract Expressionism was Baroque, then Color Field might be Rococo: beautiful, sometimes frivolous and even comedic. Eighth Street and F Street, NW, Washington, (202) 633-7970, americanart.si.edu. (Smith)
 Last Chance
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'DESIGNED FOR PLEASURE: THE WORLD OF EDO JAPAN IN PRINTS AND PAINTINGS, 1680-1860' Organized by the Japanese Art Society, this show anchors the ''floating world'' of ukiyo-e prints firmly in economic and social reality. It includes works by well-known artists, including Hokusai and Hiroshige, and emphasizes the entrepreneurial role of print publishers and the relationship between printmaking, painting and literature in the Edo period. Because the prints are sensitive to light, ''Designed for Pleasure'' will be shown in two installments. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org; closes on Sunday. (Rosenberg)
 ASHLEY BICKERTON In garish digital photographs printed on canvas, partly overpainted and presented within wide, wooden frames elaborately decorated to resemble Indonesian tourist kitsch, Mr. Bickerton stars as an Ugly American in a South Pacific paradise. His skin is blue, and he is accompanied by voluptuous female islanders whose partly nude bodies are painted in tropical hues. The question is, does unchecked hedonism lead to erotic utopia or moral insanity? Lehmann Maupin Gallery, 540 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-2923, lehmannmaupin.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 'DAN FLAVIN: THE 1964 GREEN GALLERY EXHIBITION' We're used to seeing Dan Flavin's fluorescent light sculptures in spiffy and august museum settings, where they can look sleek and grand, with no hardware-store bloodlines showing. But when the work initially appeared more than 40 years ago, it made a different impression. And we can sense what it might have been from this re-creation of Mr. Flavin's first solo -- at the Green Gallery, owned by Richard Bellamy, in the late fall of 1964 -- using fluorescent tubing as the sole medium. Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 517-8677, zwirnerandwirth.com; closes on Saturday. (Holland Cotter)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'ARCHIVE FEVER: USES OF THE DOCUMENT IN CONTEMPORARY ART' You need no grounding in art theory to understand the messages generated by this powerful brain-pincher of a theme show. The archive of the title is less a thing or a place than a concept, an immersive environment: the sum total of documentary images, mostly photographic, circulating in the culture, on the street, in the media and finally in what is called the collective memory. From an Andy Warhol silk-screen of a black civil rights demonstrator attacked by police dogs, to a gallery wallpapered with the front pages of international newspapers reporting on the destruction of the twin towers, truth, untruth and their consequences make up the riveting story here. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'THE COLLECTIONS OF BARBARA BLOOM' Instead of the walk-in installations for which Ms. Bloom is best known, this survey displays pieces from different phases of her career as discrete works of sculpture, assemblage, collage, photography and design. This is confusing, but attentive viewers will profit from studying her ideologically subversive, dryly humorous and formally inventive play with many different forms of representation, from faux-antique plaster self-portrait busts to a found-object sculpture in the form of a Braille edition of Playboy magazine. (See above.) Closes on Sunday. (Johnson)
 SHERRIE LEVINE Sleek even in her own terms, the 18th New York gallery solo of this appropriation-art pioneer juxtaposes rows of nature-lover postcards, individually framed, with two polished bronze sculptures that pit realism against Modernism, while lampooning the inflated art market. The postcards' emphasis on nature and unfettered perception is very suggestive, given Ms. Levine's usual cerebral machinations. Paula Cooper Gallery, 534 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-1105, paulacoopergallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 RYAN MCGINLEY: 'I KNOW WHERE THE SUMMER GOES' Ryan McGinley has come a long way from his 2003 solo debut at the Whitney Museum of American Art, which featured shots of bratty young rebels reveling in bodily fluids. His latest photographs, inspired by nudist magazines from the '60s and '70s and enhanced by atmospheric effects like fog machinesand fireworks, have a gentler, midsummer-night's-dream air of magic and mischief. The photographs convey the idea, rather than the experience, of spontaneity; Mr. McGinley has been candid about the fact that his road trips are methodically produced events involving carefully screened and directed models. Team Gallery, 83 Grand Street, between Wooster and Greene Streets, SoHo, (212) 279-9219, teamgal.com; closes on Saturday. (Rosenberg)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'JASPER JOHNS: GRAY' Since his paintings of targets and American flags took the art world by storm 50 years ago, Jasper Johns has been a cultural fact and the subject of numerous museum exhibitions. But this is one of the best. Moody, opulent and eloquent, it singles out his many paintings in gray, the color at the core of his sensibility, along with numerous sculptures, drawings and prints that are inherently gray. Together they chronicle his maturation from brilliant, methodical young artist to a deeper, more lyrical, less predictable one. And frankly, it is almost a relief to follow the incessant unfolding of this singular career without the brightly colored, better-known masterpieces. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 THE MET: 'SILVERSMITHS TO THE NATION: THOMAS FLETCHER AND SIDNEY GARDINER, 1808-1842' Blending neo-Classical kitsch, patriotic flair and superb craftsmanship, the Philadelphia silversmiths Thomas Fletcher and Sidney Gardiner pumped up the genre of the commemorative cup to works of awesome, small-scale monumentalism. Standing almost 30 inches from its hairy paw feet to the furrowed brow of a bellicose eagle mounted on the lid of its soup tureen bowl, an urn made in 1813 to honor Capt. Isaac Hull was at the time the heaviest, tallest and most complex work in silver ever produced in North America. It is still pretty impressive. (See above.) Closes on Sunday. (Johnson)
 'NEOREALISMO: POSTWAR PHOTOGRAPHY IN ITALY' With 82 images by 19 photographers, this wonderful show is a crash course in the extraordinary pictures taken of Italy stumbling back to life after World War II. Against a backdrop of whitewashed villages and timeless landscapes that sometimes evoke Renaissance paintings, scenes of poverty, harsh labor and desolation alternate with displays of spirit, perseverance and tenderness. Impish children, craggy old men, black-clad clergy and widows and ubiquitous bicycles -- they all create an ambience you can almost taste, and they had an indelible effect on Italian and French cinema. Steven Kasher Gallery, 521 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 966-3978, stevenkasher.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 THOMAS NOZKOWSKI At 64, Mr. Nozkowski has erased the division between geometric and organic form -- an early Modernist bugaboo -- melding them into a signature style unburdened by a signature motif. Each painting feels like a new adventure in shape, space, color and suggested meaning, and also like a joke on Modernist seriousness that is also serious, most of all in its visual richness and telling surface variations. PaceWildenstein, 534 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-7000, pacewildenstein.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 ALICE O'MALLEY: 'COMMUNITY OF ELSEWHERES' An old-style space on the rapidly gentrifying Lower East Side gives a sense of undergrounds present or recently past in this show of Alice O'Malley's full-length portrait photographs. Artists (Nicole Eisenman, Justine Kurland, Jocelyn Taylor); poets, (Eileen Myles); performers, (Dean Johnson); party givers (Kenny Kenny); and professional partygoers (Viva) mingle in a display organized by the singer Antony that catches a still gritty cross-dressing, reverse-grandeur moment that wasn't so long ago -- about 2001 -- but is fading fast. Participant Inc., 253 East Houston Street, Lower East Side, (212) 254-4334, participantinc.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)
 WALTER ROBINSON: '80S PAINTINGS' In the wake of Richard Prince's exploitation of pulp fiction book covers, their precedents deserve consideration. They include the early 1980s paintings of Walter Robinson, the artist, critic, editor, newshound and founder of Artnet.com. With appropriate bravura and irony undercut by an appealing sincerity, they depict icy blondes, torrid lovers, the occasional beach scene or handsome American G.I., and they are almost too up to date for their own good. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 DIETER ROTH One of the best shows of drawing anywhere in the city packs more than 500 works by a single artist into one Chelsea gallery. The artist, Dieter Roth (1930-98), is best known for his conceptual experiments with decaying foodstuffs; sculptures with chocolate and sausage were the focus of a 2004 retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art and P.S. 1. Roth was also a prolific printmaker and, as this show reveals, a tirelessly inventive draftsman who could make powerfully organic art out of substances that weren't perishable or pungent. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Rosenberg)
 AARON VAN ERP AND SEBASTIAN LUDWIG Introducing the work of two young painters -- one Dutch (Mr. van Erp), one German (Mr. Ludwig) -- this exhibition suggests Luc Tuymans and Neo Rauch as the poles of current European painting. Mr. van Erp spitefully inserts small, grotesque figures into brushy, gray Tuymans-like vagueness, as in ''Nocturne With Smoldering Dog.'' Mr. Ludwig's labor-intensive surfaces direct elements evocative of tapestries, intarsia screens and German woodcuts toward Surrealism. Both painters are extremely adept and thoughtful, if presently timid. Sperone Westwater, 415 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 999-7337, speronewestwater.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 'YOU & ME, SOMETIMES ...' In this intriguingly textured group show, organized by Sandra Antelo-Suarez, history, politics, pop culture and conceptualism do a dance, and objects glance off one another without quite touching. Cool shows tend to work this way at present, to be about something but not. And any show with Minerva Cuevas, Allan Kaprow, Karin Schneider and Francisco de Goya tends to work well, and it is even better when the show includes work by artists not often seen here: in this case the young Bosnian conceptualist Sejla Kameric; the New Zealand filmmaker Darcy Lange; Mario Garcia Torres of Mexico City; and the Italian-born Claudio Perna (1937-1997). Lehmann Maupin, 201 Chrystie Street, at Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 254-0054, lehmannmaupin.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PAINTING (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); WOMEN (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



50 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Reforming Our Schools

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As ''A Nation at a Loss,'' by Edward B. Fiske (Op-Ed, April 25), correctly indicates, not all of the fatalistic predictions made in the 1983 report ''A Nation at Risk,'' about American education, and specifically the link between failing education and a weak economy came to fruition. But the reality is that American education is still in turmoil. 
 High school students in particular have born the brunt of our failure to implement comprehensive education reform. More than a million kids fail to graduate on time every year, and it's not surprising that the schools with almost half of all dropouts (so-called ''dropout factories'') are schools that serve low-income and minority students. 
 Of the students who do actually graduate, about half don't have the skills they need to succeed in college and today's work force. And there are real economic consequences, both in our local communities and in our ability to compete economically with other countries that have shot past us in academic achievement. 
 We are setting our students -- and our country -- up for failure. It is time for the federal government to provide a national solution to what is a national problem. 
 Bob Wise Washington, April 27, 2008
 The writer, a former governor of West Virginia, is the author of a book about high school reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (87%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR FORCE (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



51 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2636 words

HEADLINE: Wiggle Room

BYLINE: By JULIA LAWLOR

 BODY:
THE faintest glimmer of an economic slowdown is on the horizon this summer in some of the most popular vacation spots within a two-hour drive of New York. Rental agents from the Jersey Shore to the Hamptons to the Hudson Valley report that prices for summer rentals have remained about the same as last year but that many people are booking late, hoping for bargains to materialize. 
 As usual, there are pockets of the rental market that remain impervious to the shifting economic winds. Higher-priced properties in desirable locations -- newly renovated oceanfront condos at the Jersey Shore, houses in the village of Rhinebeck, amenity-laden retreats in the Hamptons (putting greens and wine tasting rooms, anyone?) -- are already gone. 
 But in the low- to mid-priced categories, there are still a lot of choices. Inventories have been bolstered in part by owners who have put up for rent houses that have been languishing on the for-sale market. And, although second-home sales are down, a record number of vacation home buyers last year purchased with the intention of renting their homes out. According to the National Association of Realtors, 25 percent of last year's second-home buyers said they intended to put their properties on the rental market, up from 18 percent in 2006. 
 On HomeAway.com, the number of properties listed for rent in the Hamptons, the Jersey Shore, the Catskills and the Hudson Valley was up an average of 23 percent in the first quarter from the comparable period of 2007, according to Justin Halloran, vice president and managing director of United States business at HomeAway, the world's largest vacation-rental Web site. But, Mr. Halloran said, e-mail inquiries to owners in these four areas jumped an average of 42 percent from last year, indicating that it was not necessarily a renters' market. ''The demand is still outstripping the supply,'' he said. ''We know that people, even in a down economy, still take a vacation.'' 
 But they might not be taking the same kinds of vacations they did in boom times. Many are renting for shorter periods, or are cutting costs by sharing a house with another family. Some are procrastinating with a purpose -- the longer they wait, the lower prices might go.
 ''People are being cautious,'' said Suzanne Aasbo, an agent at Coldwell Banker Prestigious Properties in Westhampton Beach. ''The stock market has been an issue. Sales are off, so, theoretically, we should have a stronger rental market. But people are booking late, the same as last year.'' 
 Here, with 25 days to go to Memorial Day, is a look at the state of vacation rentals near New York. 
 HAMPTONS
 For many, part of the Hamptons allure is in breathing the same salty, rarefied air as titans of industry and boldface celebrity names. If that's what you're after, it's best to book an oceanfront spread ($350,000 and up for the season, according to Sheila Smith, a vice president at the Corcoran Group). But hurry because Ms. Smith said that most high-end rentals in Southampton and East Hampton were snapped up by the end of January and that prices in this category have increased over last year. Recession worries? Ms. Smith said a five- or six- bedroom house with a pool and perhaps a tennis court -- but not on the water -- would set you back only about $125,000 to $185,000 for the season. Rick Hoffman, a Corcoran vice president, said that was the same price range as 2007. 
 In Southampton or East Hampton, a small home for the season would start at $15,000, without a pool. A three- or four-bedroom with a pool, $30,000 to $35,000. In the middle range, a five-bedroom, four-and-a-half bath house with a heated pool in East Hampton rented for $70,000 from July 15 through Labor Day, according to Charles Manger, vice president and executive director for eastern Long Island for Brown Harris Stevens. 
 The big news in Sag Harbor this year is a record-breaking summer rental for the village -- a renovated, 8,200-square-foot 1910 house on a bay beach has rented for $395,000 for the season, eclipsing the previous high of $200,000. It has seven bedrooms, seven-and-a-half bathrooms, a heated pool, a putting green, a screening room, a sauna and steam room, a gym, a billiards room, a wine- tasting room and an outdoor kitchen with a refrigerator, a dishwasher, a grill and a fireplace. ''And it's not even south of the highway,'' said Tara Newman, a broker for Corcoran. 
 Then there is the Hamptons' version of the starter rental: a perfectly nice place in Hampton Bays that is just a 15-minute-or-so drive to the action in Southampton and can be much easier on the wallet. Ingrid Carozzi, 37, a freelance designer from the Cobble Hill section of Brooklyn, and her husband, Sean Murphy, 31, a trader on Wall Street, have rented a three-bedroom, two-bathroom house in Hampton Bays with a hot tub for July and August for $18,000. They were able to get $2,000 off the asking price and are sharing expenses with another couple. Normally, they visit family in Ireland, Sweden and Italy each summer, but this year they'll skip Italy. ''We wanted to stay in the U.S. longer, because the dollar is so weak,'' Ms. Carozzi said. 
 Emily Demone, an associate broker for Corcoran who works mostly in Southampton and Water Mill, said she had noticed more people were opting to rent just for August than had in previous years, and they were in no hurry to get out their checkbooks. ''They are all looking for the fire sale that will emerge in May so they can get a good deal in August,'' she said. ''There will be things left, but they will forfeit getting homes close to the villages. Those are the first to go.'' 
 Geoffry Wong, 39, a former derivatives trader for Goldman Sachs who lives in Manhattan, is asking $80,000 for the season to rent out his five-bedroom, four-and-a-half bathroom home with a pool, a tennis court, volleyball and boccie courts a mile from the bay in Southampton. So far, with the price the same as last year's, he has had more than double the number of people looking than in each of the previous two years, but no bites. In fact, he has had people back out at the last minute four separate times. He is now open to renting just by the month ($15,000 for June, $30,000 for July and $35,000 for August) but said he won't drop his rates by much. ''I'm not that worried, '' he said. ''I think I'll rent it, and if not, I'll just hang out there myself.'' 
 Mary Ellen McGuire, an associate broker for Brown Harris in East Hampton, is also noticing reluctance on the part of renters to commit. ''In previous years people would come out just once and rent a house,'' she said. ''Now they'll come out at least two or three times, thinking they can get a deal. But they're not necessarily getting one.'' 
 Mr. Hoffman said Corcoran agents had seen an increase in the number of Europeans renting in the Hamptons, primarily because of the weak dollar. He said that traffic on the firm's Web site was especially strong from Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Italy. Mr. Manger, however, said Brown Harris had about the same number of European renters as last year.
 JERSEY SHORE
 Like the Hamptons, the first properties to be rented at the Jersey Shore have been newer, higher-priced homes on the water. What are left are mid- to low-priced properties farther from the ocean. In Spring Lake the season is getting off to a slow start.
 Maureen Machirella, an agent with Gloria Nilson GMAC Real Estate, blamed the sagging economy for a slowdown in rentals this year. ''Things are quieter than last year,'' she said. Seasonal rents range from a low of $12,000 for a small garage apartment or carriage house to $25,000 for a small house six blocks from the beach to $60,000 or $70,000 for oceanfront properties. 
 But in some locations, if you're looking to book the most popular two-week period of the season -- the last week of July and the first week of August -- you could be too late. 
 ''That time frame is long gone,'' said Lee Childers, owner of Childers Sotheby's International Realty, which covers the northern Ocean County towns of Point Pleasant, Bay Head, Normandy Beach, Lavallette and Seaside Park. Prices range from a low of $900 a week for a two-bedroom, one-bathroom bungalow in Lavallette with an outdoor, but no indoor, shower to $100,000 for the season for a large seven-bedroom house on the ocean in Bay Head or Mantoloking. An average rental in Point Pleasant is $2,500 a week for a three-bedroom, two-bathroom house in walking distance of the beach, he said. 
 ''So many people call for those two weeks,'' Mr. Childers said. ''They want a four-bedroom home on an ocean block with central air, and 'By the way, can I bring my two little dogs?' which turn out to be Doberman pinschers.'' 
 Melissa Venditti, 43, of Middletown, N.J., started looking in January for an oceanfront house to rent for two weeks in Normandy Beach or Mantoloking. Last year, she and her husband, Anthony, 43, a hedge fund manager, paid $15,000 a week for a six-bedroom oceanfront house in Bay Head. This year, because they're also planning a trip to Italy with their three children, they wanted to spend about $7,500 a week for a smaller oceanfront house. But so far, no luck: ''I thought I'd have an easier time this year,'' Ms. Venditti said. ''I thought more people would rent out their houses to make some money.'' She's now willing to go as high as $10,000 a week, or take a house that's not on the water, but still on a beach block. 
 On Long Beach Island, Ed Kohlmeir, a broker at Newbern Realty in Beach Haven Terrace, said there was a brisk business in upper- and lower-end rentals, ''but the middle is struggling.'' Prices are the same as last year, he said, though more renters are seeking bargains. Rental prices start at $800 a week for a small two-bedroom apartment. Single-family homes a block from the beach might rent for $1,500 a week for an older three-bedroom ranch-style house to $6,000 a week for a new property with a pool. Oceanfront duplex apartments range from $2,400 to $3,500 a week. A five-bedroom, three-bathroom unit with a whirlpool tub and rooftop deck on the ocean is $8,000 a week. 
 Michael Monihan, the owner of Monihan Realty in Ocean City, said the market was surprisingly strong on the barrier island south of Atlantic City. ''This year we've been consistently ahead of last year,'' he said. ''With the economy off and gas so high, the theory is that the Jersey Shore will do better because we're a tank-full or less away from a third of the country's population.'' Much of the historic resort's rental housing is duplexes on small lots. Prices start at $500 a week for an older two-bedroom ground-floor apartment to $4,500 to $12,000 a week for beachfront units with four or more bedrooms. 
 Just north of the Wildwoods in Avalon and Stone Harbor, the rental market is still strong, said Bob Scully, a broker for Ferguson Dechert Real Estate. ''Our rental leases are up 8 percent from last year,'' he said. The average rental, he said, is $5,000 a week for a four- or five-bedroom house. On the low end, a one-bedroom condo on a beach block in Avalon with access to a pool is $1,450 a week. A two-bedroom ranch a few blocks from the beach in Avalon is $1,815 a week. On the high end, there is just one week left open this summer on a six-bedroom house with a pool on a large oceanfront lot in Avalon. Cost: $25,000 a week. 
 HUDSON VALLEY AND CATSKILLS
 The rolling green hills of New York's Dutchess and Columbia Counties east of the Hudson River and the mountainous terrain to the west in the Catskills make these areas attractive to city dwellers. This year there is even a scarcity of certain types of properties. 
 Ann Dyal, an associate broker with Coldwell Banker Currier & Lazier Realtors, said she had a waiting list of people looking for a summer rental in Rhinebeck, a Dutchess County village of quaint, tree-lined streets with chic restaurants, galleries and antiques stores. ''If I had 10 houses in my pocket, I could have rented them all,'' she said. ''We have more demand than in the past, because a lot of New Yorkers who usually go to the Hamptons are exploring here because it's a better commute, it's not as crowded, and it's less expensive.'' 
 She said average rentals are $10,000 to $15,000 for the season, and the number of rentals is up about 5 percent from a year ago. A small house well outside town would start at $3,300 a month, or $10,000 for the season, with a large home going for $10,000 a month. 
 In Millbrook, an upscale Dutchess County community with horse farms and large estates, demand for rentals is up from last year, said Heather Croner of Heather Croner Real Estate Sotheby's International, as are prices. Although there are some small houses that go for $15,000 for the season, she said, ''We don't have many like that.'' More typical is a 60-acre Georgian-style estate with four bedrooms, a library, multiple fireplaces, a caretaker's house, terraced gardens and a heated swimming pool currently for rent at $75,000 for the season. 
 Bargain-hunters will fare much better farther north in Columbia County, where Audrey G. Schoenfeld, broker and co-owner of Schoenfeld, French & Lull in Chatham, said $1,200 to $1,500 a month will get you a small two- or three-bedroom house with one or two bathrooms. A slightly bigger home with a pond or a pool will run $3,500 to $5,000 a month, she said. 
 Rental prices are holding steady compared with last year, she said. Popular areas to rent in Columbia County are around three lakes -- Kinderhook, Copake and Queechy -- and in places like Chatham, Spencertown, Austerlitz, Canaan and New Lebanon that are close to Tanglewood and the summer theaters just across the border in the MassachusettsBerkshires.
 In the Catskills, with its abundant hiking trails and fly-fishing streams, landing a bargain is relatively easy. Mary Collins, owner of Mary Collins Real Estate in High Falls, N.Y., said it's possible to get a small cottage for as little as $750 a month, or $2,500 to $3,000 for the season. ''It would be something in the woods, not renovated, no special amenities,'' she said. 
 In the eastern portion of Ulster County around Woodstock, prices are higher. They range from $2,500 a month for a small two-bedroom house to $5,000 a month for a larger home without a pool. A four-bedroom, three-bathroom home on 13 acres near the village of Woodstock is on the market for $10,000 a month. 
 Annette Sievert, owner of Catskills4Rent.com, said she had had 10 percent more rental leases signed so far this year than last, and although prices are about the same as last year, they have risen 10 to 20 percent in four years. ''It's getting hard to find something close to water,'' she said. Three rental houses on Perch Lake in Andes, for instance, were rented for the summer by February. There is also a shortage of rental houses in downtowns like Margaretville. Her least expensive property is a two-bedroom log cabin with a fireplace on eight acres at $1,200 a month in Roxbury; the most expensive is a four-bedroom, three-bathroom renovated farmhouse on 55 acres in New Kingston with two ponds at $6,000 a month. 
 This is the 10th summer that Gerard Jacobs, 50, a freelance hairstylist who lives in Greenwich Village, has rented in the Catskills. He found a three-bedroom, two-bathroom house with mountain views in Highmount for $7,500 for the season, $2,500 more than he paid last year. ''Prices are up,'' he said, ''but there are much nicer houses coming onto the market.'' He much prefers hiking and prowling the area's farmers' markets to hanging out in the Hamptons. ''This is quiet,'' he said, ''instead of party-central like Fire Island or traffic-central like the Hamptons. And you get way more bang for your buck.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN NO RUSH TO SIGN: From Hamptons beaches to Catskill mountainsides and Hudson Valley lakes and back to the beach on the Jersey Shore, there are still lots of choices left for seasonal renters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONIHAN REALTY, FERGUSON DECHERT REAL ESTATE, COLDWELL BANKER CURRIER & LAZIER REALTORS, COLDWELL BANKER VILLAGE GREEN REALTY, CATSKILLS4RENT.COM, A HOUSE AROUND THE BEND AND THE CORCORAN GROUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); MOUNTAINS (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%)

COMPANY: HOMEAWAY INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

TICKER: AWAY (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



52 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: As Gas Costs Soar, Buyers Are Flocking to Small Cars

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Soaring gas prices have turned the steady migration by Americans to smaller cars into a stampede.
 In what industry analysts are calling a first, about one in five vehicles sold in the United States was a compact or subcompact car during April, based on monthly sales data released Thursday. Almost a decade ago, when sport utility vehicles were at their peak of popularity, only one in every eight vehicles sold was a small car.
 The switch to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles has been building in recent years, but has accelerated recently with the advent of $3.50-a-gallon gas. At the same time, sales of pickup trucks and large sport utility vehicles have dropped sharply.
 In another first, fuel-sipping four-cylinder engines surpassed six-cylinder models in popularity in April. 
 ''It's easily the most dramatic segment shift I have witnessed in the market in my 31 years here,'' said George Pipas, chief sales analyst for the Ford Motor Company.
 The trend toward smaller and lighter vehicles with better mileage is a blow to Detroit automakers, which offer fewer such models than Asian carmakers like Toyota and Honda. Moreover, the decline of S.U.V.'s and pickups has curtailed the biggest source of profits for General Motors, Ford and Chrysler.
 Once considered an unattractive and cheap alternative to large cars and S.U.V.'s, compacts have become the new star of the showroom at a time when overall industry sales are falling.
 Sales of Toyota's subcompact Yaris increased 46 percent, and Honda's tiny Fit had a record month. Ford's compact Focus model jumped 32 percent in April from a year earlier. All those models are rated at more than 30 miles per gallon for highway driving.
 Dave Strom of South Boston, Va., recently bought a tiny Smart ForTwo Passion Coupe, made by Daimler, the German automaker.
 Mr. Strom also owns a pickup truck, which he uses mainly to haul his boat. When he runs errands, he drives his Smart, which he says is getting 45 miles a gallon.
 ''I had to smile the other day when I filled my tank for $18 and the guy next to me had a Ford Explorer and the pump was clicking past $80,'' said Mr. Strom, a 66-year-old retired manager of a Chevrolet dealership.
 Previous spikes in sales of smaller cars were often a result of consumers trading down during tough economic conditions or gas-price increases. When the economy improved or fuel prices dropped again -- as they did after the oil-price shocks in the 1970s eased -- buyers invariably went back to bigger vehicles.
 But with oil prices expected to remain high for years, auto industry executives are seeing a turning point.
 ''The era of the truck-based large S.U.V.'s is over,'' said Michael Jackson, chief executive of AutoNation, the nation's largest auto retailer.
 Sales of traditional S.U.V.'s are down more than 25 percent this year. In April, for example, sales of G.M.'s Chevrolet Tahoe fell 35 percent.
 Full-size pickup sales have fallen more than 15 percent this year, with Ford's industry-leading F-Series pickup dropping 27 percent in April alone. Sales of pickups, though, are expected to strengthen with the economy, because of their use as commercial vehicles. 
 The rise in sales of more fuel-efficient vehicles occurred during one of the industry's worst months in more than a decade. For the month, G.M. sales dropped 23 percent and Ford slid 19 percent, while Toyota fell by 5 percent. The figures were adjusted for the fact that this April had two more selling days than a year ago.
 Another bright spot in the numbers were sales of so-called small crossovers -- which look like little S.U.V.'s and are based on car underpinnings. 
 Like small cars, they also accounted for about 20 percent of the total industry sales for the month, according to the research firm J. D. Power & Associates.
 The analysis by J. D. Power also showed that 42 percent of all vehicles sold in April were equipped with four-cylinder engines, compared with 38 percent for six-cylinder engines.
 How the downsizing of America's vehicle fleet will affect fuel consumption is still largely unknown. When gas prices rise, as they are now, many drivers simply drive less to save money.
 But there are some indications that the trend toward smaller vehicles will reduce the nation's fuel use. In California, motorists bought 4 percent less gasoline in January than they did the year before, a drop of more than 58 million gallons, according to the Oil Price Information Service.
 ''That is an incredible year-over-year drop,'' said Tom Kloza, the organization's chief oil analyst. ''Some of it clearly has to do with changes in the vehicle fleet.''
 Small cars have traditionally been favorites of young, first-time buyers attracted by their low prices. But sales have been creeping up since 2005, particularly among older baby-boomers whose children have grown.
 Crossover vehicles have also drawn in empty-nesters who have less need for a large car, S.U.V. or minivan.
 ''The first of the baby boomers turned 62 this year, and they've started downsizing,'' Mr. Pipas of Ford said.
 The latest crop of small cars and crossovers also feature the creature comforts and safety features once found only in more expensive models.
 Factor in the economic benefits of fuel-efficient engines, and small cars have not only become practical, but trendy as well.
 ''This shift appears to be a permanent situation,'' said Jesse Toprak, chief industry analyst for the auto information Web site Edmunds.com. ''These new products have become more fashionable, just like small, fuel-efficient cars are in Europe.''
 The low prices on small cars are also luring consumers who are tightening their belts in an economic downturn.
 ''We wanted to have good fuel economy, but we were equally concerned about the price of the car,'' said John Shelby of Phoenix, who recently purchased a Honda Fit for $15,600.
 Smaller vehicles, though, mean smaller profit margins for automakers. The drop in pickup sales, because of the slowdown in the housing and construction industries, has been particularly painful for Detroit's Big Three.
 ''It's just a difficult truck market for everybody, ourselves included,'' said Mark LaNeve, G.M.'s head of North American sales. ''By and large, people are just staying out of that market.''
 Automakers ignore the move to smaller vehicles at their own peril. G.M., for example, is playing catch-up by introducing a dozen new cars and crossovers in the next few model years.
 With federal fuel-economy regulations increasing to 31.6 miles per gallon by 2015, car companies have another incentive to speed development of smaller vehicles.
 ''If you look at where the automakers are putting their resources into now, just about everything is going into small cars,'' said Tom Libby, senior market analyst for J. D. Power.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dave Strom of South Boston, Va., bought a Smart ForTwo Passion Coupe, which he says is getting 45 miles a gallon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN TAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A19) CHART: LESS GAS, MORE SALES: Sales growth, April '07 to April '08 (Sources: Autodata
Environmental Protection Agency) (pg. A1)
HOW THE INDUSTRY FARED
HOW AUTOMAKERS FARED
 MOST POPULAR CARS AND TRUCKS (Source: Autodata) (pg. A19) Chart showing how the auto industry and automakers fared. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



53 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Foundations Set Record for Giving in '07

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Giving by foundations set a record last year, hitting almost $43 billion, compared with $39 billion in 2006, according to estimates by the Foundation Center.
 The center, a research and educational organization, attributed the increase to strong returns on foundation assets and a record $36.6 billion in new gifts to foundations. 
 Those factors will propel further growth in foundation giving this year despite the current economic downturn, said Sara L. Engelhardt, the center's president.
 ''Every time the stock market doesn't do well and the economy doesn't do well, there is the expectation that foundation giving will drop off,'' Ms. Engelhardt said. ''But foundations don't react to those conditions in the same way that individual givers do.''
 Many foundations budget their grant-making using a rolling average of their assets in an effort to avoid sudden drops in their giving. Additionally, most manage their assets fairly conservatively, investing only in limited ways in hedge funds and other riskier asset classes.
 Foundation assets increased 8.6 percent on an inflation-adjusted basis to $614.7 billion in 2006, the latest year for which data is available, and the Foundation Center estimates that assets last year climbed to $669.5 billion.
 The Hewlett Foundation, one of the country's largest, was fairly typical. It gave out $421 million in grants last year, including a $113 million grant to the University of California, Berkeley, to endow 100 chairs, and its assets climbed about 7 percent on an inflation-adjusted basis, to $9.3 billion.
 Investment returns have fallen off this year, said Eric Brown, a spokesman for Hewlett. ''Still, the grant budget this year looks like it will be up slightly as of today.''
 The Foundation Center is predicting that giving by foundations will outpace inflation this year. Slightly more than half of the 1,158 foundations that described their plans for overall grant-making in 2008 said it would increase, while 29 percent said they expected to reduce their giving.
 A smaller survey by the Chronicle of Philanthropy suggested the same thing. Forty-six foundations told the group that they expected their giving to rise by more than 3 percent, 40 expected it to remain about the same and 5 said they expected to give less.
 New foundations are still being created, though not at the pace they were just a few years ago. More than three-fifths of active foundations today were established after 1989. About 1,400 new grant-making foundations were created in 2006, fewer than half the number established in 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (94%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (79%); CHARITIES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

COMPANY: FOUNDATION CENTER (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FOUNDATION CENTER (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



54 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 383 words

 BODY:
SMALL AND POPULAR The switch to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles has been building in recent years, but it accelerated in April when one in five vehicles sold in the United States was a compact or subcompact car. 
 WAXING OPTIMISTIC Many analysts and executives on Wall Street see a broad, sustained recovery in the economy and the financial markets coming in the second half of the year. [A1.]
 A SPRING THAW The once-frosty relationship between Fox News and the Democratic candidates has grown warmer as Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama court Fox's viewers. [C1.]
 BUILDING AN IMAGE China would like Beijing International Airport's new Terminal 3 to project the country as a rising power with dazzling monuments that embody its rapid progress. [C1.]
 SHIFTING FOCUS Eastman Kodak, a company once focused on film sales, has embraced the digital world and the researchers who understand it. [C1.]
 DISAPPOINTING Exxon Mobil's first-quarter net income rose 17 percent and was the second-best quarterly profit in its history, but it was less than Wall Street expected, and shares fell. [C1.]
 SWINGING TO A LOSS Sun Microsystems posted a loss in its most recent quarter, ending five straight quarters of gains. [C2.]
 SCALING BACK Home Depot became the latest retailer to rethink expansion plans, saying it is closing 15 poorly performing locations and canceling plans to open 50 new stores. [C3.]
 HOUSING ASSISTANCE A House panel approved legislation that would make $300 billion in federally insured loans available to refinance the mortgages of borrowers in danger of foreclosure. [C3.]
 SLOWING DOWN Airlines are flying more slowly, adding a few minutes to flights to save millions of dollars on fuel. [C3.]
 CONSUMER SLOWDOWN Spending grew by a mere 0.1 percent in March, as Americans cut back on their purchases. [C3.]
 MAGAZINE HONORS The American Society of Magazine Editors gave National Geographic three National Magazine Awards, including a prestigious award for general excellence. [C5.]
 S.E.C. SETTLEMENT The Interpublic Group of Companies agreed to pay $12 million to resolve fraud charges. Advertising. [C5.]
 RECORD GRANTS Giving by foundations increased by 6.9 percent last year, hitting a record of $42.9 billion, according to estimates by the Foundation Center. [A14.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); AIRPORTS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); AIRLINES (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); APPROVALS (66%); FORECLOSURE (65%); LEGISLATION (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (56%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (81%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (56%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (81%); XOM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (75%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



55 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Officials Worry State Headed for Deep and Long Recession

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
State budget officials said on Thursday that New York's economy was slipping into a recession that could last through early next year and prove worse than the recession looming before the country as a whole. 
 Laura L. Anglin, the budget director for Gov. David A. Paterson, said that key economic indicators, like falling corporate profits and four consecutive months of job losses nationally, had convinced state budget analysts that the United States was already in a recession, and that New York was soon to follow.
 ''New York tends to lag the nation,'' Ms. Anglin said. ''That's why we worry that the worst is yet to come.'' 
 Historically, recessions in New York, compared with those in the nation as a whole, have lasted twice as long and inflicted deeper job losses, according to state budget officials.
 Job growth in the state is expected merely to stagnate next year. The downturn appears far worse nationally than previously projected, with more than $200 billion in write-offs so far through April at major financial firms and 63,000 layoffs in the financial and insurance sectors. On Wall Street, which supplies one-fifth of the state's tax revenue, bonuses are now expected to be down 11 percent this fiscal year, after a small decline last year and a 25 percent increase the year before.
 Those forecasts were paired with sharply more pessimistic tax revenue forecasts for the coming years, which Ms. Anglin -- echoing Mr. Paterson's recent calls for more budget cuts -- said would require drastic reductions in state spending. Over the past nine months, the state has revised its projections for this year downward by $1.7 billion. 
 ''The typical New Yorker is tightening their belts,'' Ms. Anglin said. ''They're feeling the crunch of higher prices; they're having to manage their resources better. I think that the typical New Yorkers should know that we're aware of that and that the state needs to do the same thing.'' 
 The budget gap for the next fiscal year is projected at $5 billion. It is expected to increase to $7.7 billion in the 2010 fiscal year and $8.8 billion in the 2011 fiscal year, according to the budget office, approaching levels not seen since the recession that followed the 9/11 attack, which all but put Lower Manhattan out of business for months.
 Without the budget cuts already planned for next year, Ms. Anglin said, spending would increase by 10.2 percent over this year compared with revenue increases of only 2.7 percent, a level she described as ''not sustainable.'' Because of steadily increasing state spending, Ms. Anglin said, even a quick economic recovery would not necessarily ameliorate future budget gaps.
 Mr. Paterson sought and won hundreds of millions of dollars in additional cuts from his commissioners and agency heads soon after succeeding Gov. Eliot Spitzer in March. And last week, he suggested that he wanted the Legislature to take the unusual step of reopening the budget to seek more cuts for next year and after. 
 The just-approved budget increased spending by 4.8 percent over all for the current fiscal year, with significant increases in school aid, upstate economic development and capital improvements to the state university system. Medicaid continues to be a major state expense. 
 Not since former Gov. George E. Pataki's first term has New York actually cut spending, said Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Manhattan Institute's Empire Center for New York State Policy, which advocates lower government spending. Mr. Paterson, he suggested, would need to do the same. 
 ''The budget gaps are clearly spending-driven. And the budget gaps were made worse by the budget they just did,'' Mr. McMahon said. ''The school-aid spigot is going to have to be turned off. And he's going to have to fight his own battles on Medicaid.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); INSURANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



56 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: The Cognitive Age

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
If you go into a good library, you will find thousands of books on globalization. Some will laud it. Some will warn about its dangers. But they'll agree that globalization is the chief process driving our age. Our lives are being transformed by the increasing movement of goods, people and capital across borders. 
 The globalization paradigm has led, in the political arena, to a certain historical narrative: There were once nation-states like the U.S. and the European powers, whose economies could be secured within borders. But now capital flows freely. Technology has leveled the playing field. Competition is global and fierce. 
 New dynamos like India and China threaten American dominance thanks to their cheap labor and manipulated currencies. Now, everything is made abroad. American manufacturing is in decline. The rest of the economy is threatened. 
 Hillary Clinton summarized the narrative this week: ''They came for the steel companies and nobody said anything. They came for the auto companies and nobody said anything. They came for the office companies, people who did white-collar service jobs, and no one said anything. And they came for the professional jobs that could be outsourced, and nobody said anything.''
 The globalization paradigm has turned out to be very convenient for politicians. It allows them to blame foreigners for economic woes. It allows them to pretend that by rewriting trade deals, they can assuage economic anxiety. It allows them to treat economic and social change as a great mercantilist competition, with various teams competing for global supremacy, and with politicians starring as the commanding generals. 
 But there's a problem with the way the globalization paradigm has evolved. It doesn't really explain most of what is happening in the world.
 Globalization is real and important. It's just not the central force driving economic change. Some Americans have seen their jobs shipped overseas, but global competition has accounted for a small share of job creation and destruction over the past few decades. Capital does indeed flow around the world. But as Pankaj Ghemawat of the Harvard Business School has observed, 90 percent of fixed investment around the world is domestic. Companies open plants overseas, but that's mainly so their production facilities can be close to local markets. 
 Nor is the globalization paradigm even accurate when applied to manufacturing. Instead of fleeing to Asia, U.S. manufacturing output is up over recent decades. As Thomas Duesterberg of Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, a research firm, has pointed out, the U.S.'s share of global manufacturing output has actually increased slightly since 1980. 
 The chief force reshaping manufacturing is technological change (hastened by competition with other companies in Canada, Germany or down the street). Thanks to innovation, manufacturing productivity has doubled over two decades. Employers now require fewer but more highly skilled workers. Technological change affects China just as it does the America. William Overholt of the RAND Corporation has noted that between 1994 and 2004 the Chinese shed 25 million manufacturing jobs, 10 times more than the U.S.
 The central process driving this is not globalization. It's the skills revolution. We're moving into a more demanding cognitive age. In order to thrive, people are compelled to become better at absorbing, processing and combining information. This is happening in localized and globalized sectors, and it would be happening even if you tore up every free trade deal ever inked. 
 The globalization paradigm emphasizes the fact that information can now travel 15,000 miles in an instant. But the most important part of information's journey is the last few inches -- the space between a person's eyes or ears and the various regions of the brain. Does the individual have the capacity to understand the information? Does he or she have the training to exploit it? Are there cultural assumptions that distort the way it is perceived? 
 The globalization paradigm leads people to see economic development as a form of foreign policy, as a grand competition between nations and civilizations. These abstractions, called ''the Chinese'' or ''the Indians,'' are doing this or that. But the cognitive age paradigm emphasizes psychology, culture and pedagogy -- the specific processes that foster learning. It emphasizes that different societies are being stressed in similar ways by increased demands on human capital. If you understand that you are living at the beginning of a cognitive age, you're focusing on the real source of prosperity and understand that your anxiety is not being caused by a foreigner.
 It's not that globalization and the skills revolution are contradictory processes. But which paradigm you embrace determines which facts and remedies you emphasize. Politicians, especially Democratic ones, have fallen in love with the globalization paradigm. It's time to move beyond it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); HISTORY (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); JOB CREATION (72%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



57 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor's Responsible Budget

 BODY:
Hard economic times are the real test of a mayor's budgetary skills, and New Yorkers appear to be in luck. With the economy on the skids and Wall Street revenue weak, Mayor Michael Bloomberg unveiled a budget on Thursday that should keep the city on a healthy fiscal course -- if everyone shows proper discipline. 
 Thanks to Mr. Bloomberg's careful financial management, the city has a $4.5 billion surplus for the current fiscal year that can be used to help balance the 2009 budget and to reduce projected multibillion-dollar gaps through 2011. Mr. Bloomberg's decision to save for a rainy day was the right way to go, in stark contrast to the financial mess Mayor Rudolph Giuliani left, made worse by the recession in 2001.
 For Mr. Bloomberg's budget to work, some pieces still need to fall into place. The city needs to negotiate prudent contracts, including one still to be settled with police officers. It also needs to fight for what it is due from Albany and Washington. 
 The mayor is taking the responsible, and politically brave, step of raising about $1 billion by eliminating the 7 percent property tax reduction that homeowners have been enjoying. He should have gone further and also rescinded their unnecessary $400 property tax rebate. 
 City agencies will be asked to cut another 6.4 percent from their budgets. It's not hard to see, given the ongoing scandal over misspent City Council money, that there is waste that can be eliminated. We hope that the cuts will not come at the expense of library hours, which always seem to end up on the chopping block. We also hope that the city will to stick to its guns and make the mayor's well-thought-out budget a reality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); TAX RELIEF (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



58 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Approves Bill to Assist Borrowers

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House Financial Services Committee pushed forward on Thursday with an aggressive effort to help troubled homeowners, approving legislation that would make up to $300 billion in federally insured loans available to refinance the mortgages of borrowers in danger of foreclosure. 
 With passage of the House bill virtually assured, debate over how best to address the downturn in housing shifts back to the Senate, where Democrats drafting a similar plan are struggling to overcome the reservations, if not outright opposition, of a more robust Republican minority. 
 President Bush has called on Congress to pass very specific legislation to update the operations of the Federal Housing Administration, to tighten regulation of the government-sponsored financiers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and to let state and local housing authorities use tax-exempt bonds to refinance bad loans. But he opposes the more expansive legislation pursued by Democrats. 
 The Financial Services Committee approved the bill 46 to 21, with 10 Republicans joining the Democrats in favor of it. 
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and the chief author of the housing legislation, said Thursday that he hoped President Bush would sign the bill if it reached the White House as part of a wider package and it contained the legislation that Mr. Bush had demanded. 
 The Democrats' legislation seeks to help homeowners by requiring lenders to reduce the principal balances for borrowers at risk of default. The bad loans, typically with high adjustable rates, would be refinanced into more affordable 30-year fixed-rate loans insured by the F.H.A.
 The new loans would be limited to no more than 90 percent of a property's value, based on an updated appraisal. The government would retain a stake in any future sale of the property, worth 3 percent of the initial loan balance or 50 percent of net profit from a sale, whichever is greater. 
 Borrowers would have to demonstrate the ability to repay the new loan, and if they default, they will forfeit the property. Democrats say the plan could help as many as 1.5 million homeowners. 
 The Bush administration calls that goal unrealistic and says achieving it would require loosening underwriting rules that would put taxpayer money at too much risk. But the administration's own effort to help troubled borrowers, called F.H.A. Secure, has so far aided only about 2,000 homeowners who were clearly behind in repaying their loans. 
 In an interview, Mr. Frank said that Republicans, including the president, understood that the government-sponsored lenders were playing an increasingly vital role in the stability of the economy and that they were now anxious to tighten regulation. 
 ''Don't underestimate the importance'' of changes affecting Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, he said. 
 As for the Senate, Mr. Frank said: ''I am not going to guess.'' 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, had been hoping to complete work next Tuesday on a bill that would incorporate the broad expansion of federally insured loans sought by Democrats with a Senate version of the legislation sought by the Bush administration. But aides said a committee vote would be delayed to at least Thursday or perhaps the following week.
 In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Dodd said he hoped to reach a deal, even as some Senate Republicans said they remained uncertain. 
 ''Our top priority right now should be helping people keep their homes,'' Mr. Dodd said, praising the House committee's vote. ''This is another step in the right direction.'' 
 He added: ''I am committed to working on bipartisan legislation with my colleagues in the Senate banking committee to reduce foreclosures and restore liquidity to the mortgage market.'' 
 A spokesman for Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee, declined to comment. 
 Republican support for the Democrats' plan has waned in recent days. Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida and a member of the banking committee, who had previously advocated aggressive government action to stem foreclosures, this week said that he supported the more measured response favored by President Bush. Florida is one of the states hit hardest by foreclosures. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); TAX LAW (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); AMTRUST FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (92%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%)

TICKER: AFSI (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BARNEY FRANK (78%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



59 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Sun Microsystems Posts Loss And Plans to Reduce Jobs

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Sun Microsystems just took a big step backward.
 The network server company swung to a loss in its most recent quarter, ending five straight quarters of profit, as the company struggled to cope with a challenging economy. It said it intended to cut as many as 2,500 jobs. 
 The earnings report, issued after the close of trading Thursday, surprised Wall Street analysts who had forecast the company would continue to report an increase in profit.
 ''Relative to expectations, this is a huge disappointment,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein.
 Sun shares fell more than 14 percent in after-hours trading Thursday, after closing up 67 cents, at $16.33, before the report was released.
 Sun reported a net loss of $34 million, or 4 cents a share, in its third quarter, in contrast to net income of $67 million, or 7 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. 
 The company said revenue was flat at $3.27 billion.
 Analysts had forecast Sun would earn 18 cents a share on $3.38 billion in revenue. The results included a $52 million tax provision, compared with a year-earlier tax benefit of $3 million.
 ''Our third quarter was a disappointing one,'' Jonathan Schwartz, Sun's chief executive, said. ''The U.S. economy presented Sun with significant challenges in the third quarter, masking our progress in developing nations and economies across the world.'' 
 Mr. Schwartz said that two-thirds of the company's sales regions reported gains, but that sales in the United States were down sharply as many customers deferred purchases. Sun's American business was hit hardest in the government, telecommunications and retail sectors.
 Sun's $1 billion acquisition of MySQL in January reduced earnings by about 4 cents a share, the company said. 
 Since Mr. Schwartz took over as chief executive two years ago, Sun has benefited from a sweeping corporate cost-reduction program and an intense effort to refocus the company. Over the last year, the company signed important long-term deals with Dell, Microsoft and I.B.M.
 Mark Lehman, Sun's chief financial officer, told analysts that Sun plans to cut 1,500 to 2,500 jobs in the first quarter, and take a charge of $130 million to $220 million. The work force has grown by about 1,100 in recent months from acquisitions.
 Mr. Sacconaghi said that while the economy proved challenging during the quarter, Sun appeared to have been hit disproportionately hard. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 7, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the quarterly earnings for Sun Microsystems misstated the given name of the company's chief financial officer. He is Michael Lehman, not Mark.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%)

COMPANY: SERVER CO INC (91%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (90%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: JONATHAN I SCHWARTZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



60 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Union's War Protest Shuts West Coast Ports

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY. 
Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting from Long Beach, Calif., and Carolyn Marshall from Oakland, Calif.

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
West Coast ports were shut down on Thursday as thousands of longshoremen failed to report for work, part of what their union leaders said was a one-day, one-shift protest against the war in Iraq.
 Cranes and forklifts stood still from Seattle to San Diego, and ships were stalled at sea as workers held rallies up and down the coast to blame the war for distracting public attention and money from domestic needs like health care and education.
 ''We're loyal to America, and we won't stand by while our country, our troops and our economy are being destroyed by a war that's bankrupting us to the tune of $3 trillion,'' the president of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union, Bob McEllrath, said in a written statement. ''It's time to stand up, and we're doing our part today.'' 
 About 25,000 union members are employed at 29 West Coast ports, but the protest took place only during the day shift. A spokesman for the main West Coast employers' group, the Pacific Maritime Association, said it appeared that about 6,000 workers did not show up for work, which meant that about 10,000 containers would not be loaded or unloaded from about 30 cargo ships.
 The spokesman, Steve Getzug, cast the action as a strike and therefore a violation of the union's labor contract, which is up for renewal this summer.
 ''What the union says and what the union does are two different things,'' Mr. Getzug said. ''This is genuine defiance.''
 Union leaders said that the association had rejected their request weeks ago for Thursday's one-shift work stoppage, but that local longshoremen continued to promote the protest. It went forward, the union leaders said, despite a demand on Wednesday by an independent arbitrator that they instruct members to go to work. 
 In many cases, dock workers were joined at port entrances or at rallies by other groups protesting the war or frustrated by economic issues or immigration policies. Some rallies seemed as much like street fairs as angry acts of resistance, with booksellers setting up stands and supporters of the presidential candidate Ralph Nader carrying banners.
 On the Seattle waterfront, members of the United Auto Workers and the Service Employees International Union mixed with self-described socialists while many of the scores of police officers on the scene ate box lunches and petted their horses.
 In Oakland, Calif., some truckers who said they were angry about high gas prices decided not to cross picket lines at the port.
 ''I got here ready to haul,'' said Cesar Lara, 41, a resident of Richmond, Calif., born in Zacatecas, Mexico. ''They told me it was a picket but if I wanted to go in I could. But I'm supporting them and to end the war.''
 Several drivers said truckers were planning their own nationwide work stoppage in the next several days to protest record-high gas prices and surcharges. 
 In Long Beach, Calif., part of nation's largest port complex, truck drivers from California and neighboring states waited for the port security gates to reopen on Thursday evening, when union members said they planned to return to work. Nearby, in Wilmington, longshoremen met inside a hall while some union members outside read pink fliers stating the reasons for work stoppage.
 Kevin Schroeder, director of Local 13's political action committee, said, ''The children of middle-class people are over there dying, so we decided to do something. We are fortunate enough to be in an organization that has a platform to do something.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dock workers and others protesting the war rallied on Thursday at the port in Oakland, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (89%); STRIKES (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); PORT STRIKES (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); HORSES (66%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (62%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); BOOKSTORES (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



61 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: In Stores, Hints of Change Under New Castro

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: HAVANA 

 BODY:
Can a rice maker possibly be revolutionary?
 There they were, piled up one atop another, Chinese-made rice makers selling for $70 each. Beside them, sleek DVD players. Across the well-stocked electronics store were computers and televisions and other household appliances that President Raul Castro recently decreed ought to be made available to average Cubans, or at least those who could afford them.
 Since finally succeeding his ailing 81-year-old brother, Fidel, in February, Mr. Castro, 76, who appeared before hundreds of thousands of Cubans at a May Day rally on Thursday here in the capital, has been busy with a flurry of changes. In the last eight weeks he has also opened access to cellphones, lifted the ban on Cubans using tourist hotels and granted farmers the right to manage unused land for profit. 
 More is on the horizon, government officials say, like easing restrictions on traveling abroad and the possibility of allowing Cubans to buy and sell their own cars, and perhaps even their homes. Each of these changes may be microscopic in contrast to the outsize problems facing Cuba. But taken together, they are shaking up this stoic, time-warped place. 
 Just how far Mr. Castro will be willing to tinker with the country his brother left him and what, if anything, he is using as his playbook nobody knows for sure. Mikhail Gorbachev's attempts to reinvigorate the ailing Soviet system led to its collapse and its abandonment of Cuba. More inspiring is the mix of consumerism and pragmatic authoritarian politics that energized growth and reinforced Communist Party rule in China and Vietnam.
 China is now Cuba's second largest trading partner, and Vietnam is one of the first countries that Mr. Castro has said he will visit. Leaders from both countries visited over the last year and had sessions with both Castro brothers. Cuba analysts say that Raul Castro, as the longtime defense minister, has maintained close ties to both countries' militaries and has close aides who know the countries well.
 ''This is the Asia model,'' said Robert Pastor, a professor of international relations at American University. ''Still, the signals he has sent are so faint and so tentative that it's not at all clear where he wants to take Cuba or where Cuba will go.''
 Marifeli Perez-Stable, vice president for democratic governance at the Inter-American Dialogue, said: ''He's never going to say. I'm not sure he even knows it. But he is following China, and even more so Vietnam,'' meaning that Mr. Castro was hewing to a more go-slow approach.
 As in those countries, economic freedom is one thing, and political liberty something else. On the latter, Cuba's government has given every sign that it is intent on holding the line.
 But Mr. Castro's early tinkering has already laid bare an uncomfortable, and potentially destabilizing, reality in a country that for 50 years has been run as one of the world's most rigid socialist systems: that some Cubans are far better off than others, whether because of remittances from relatives abroad, ties to the ruling class or unauthorized money-making ventures on the side.
 For now, his government seems willing to accept those disparities, tolerating the notion of class differences while continuing to cling to a Cuban vision of socialism that includes food subsidies, free education and health care for all, Mr. Castro's backers in the government say.
 Whether that approach will satisfy Cubans, who are quickly becoming more aware of their relative consumer deprivation, is another question. A rice maker alone costs more than three times the average monthly state salary here. Conversations on the street, away from the lines of people buying what is newly available to them, reveal discontent.
 Javier, a 25-year-old computer programmer, has made up his mind to leave Cuba for California as soon as he can. ''Come on, these changes are only in favor of a very tiny part of the population,'' he said, sitting along a coastal wall and staring into the ocean. ''We, who get up early in the morning to get the bus, we, who have sacrificed ourselves, we can't afford all this,'' he added. ''I'd love to go to a fancy hotel with my girlfriend for a night or two. But, hey, I simply can't. I couldn't afford it, even in my dreams.''
 Even for those who can, it is a journey into another world that was all but off limits just weeks ago. The other day, a young woman struggled for 20 minutes to get into a Havana hotel room, jamming her key card in the slot haphazardly and shoving the door with all her might. She could be excused, though, since it was her first time using such a contraption. In her case, her foreign boyfriend paid the $175-a-night bill.
 ''Different classes have always existed but they are more visible now,'' explained Maria Ileana Faguaga, a Havana-based anthropologist who specializes in Cuba's struggling black population. ''Now you just look at who has a cellphone.''
 A taxi driver barreling along the seaside Malecon, who like most Cuban workers is paid by the state, pulled out a Nokia from his pocket this week. ''This one has a camera and Bluetooth,'' he said, boasting that he was one of the first in line when Mr. Castro recently ended the restrictions.
 ''What do you think of the Sony Ericsson?'' the driver asked, explaining that he was thinking of an upgrade at some point. He was full of questions. Is it true Motorola is struggling? Would the iPhone work in Cuba?
 Mr. Castro's model, what the state-run newspaper has called ''more perfect socialism,'' appears to be a Cuba with a greater correlation between the work one puts in and the resulting reward.
 One of Mr. Castro's most far-reaching moves may be his announcement giving farmers the right to manage unused land for profit. Cuba spent $1.4 billion importing food last year and, as a result of rising food prices, will spend $1.9 billion this year to get 20 percent less food, which officials call an untenable situation.
 Scrapping the longstanding practice of dictating planting decisions from Havana, the government will allow more local control, officials say, and hopefully home-grown food.
 But what about nonfarmers? Would Mr. Castro be willing to expand on his older brother's experiment allowing some private restaurants and rooming houses to operate? What about permitting private auto mechanics, hairdressers and tutors, all of whom exist in Cuba but on the sly?
 Washington has dismissed the measures as falling far short of the kind of structural changes needed in Cuba. ''I see it as somewhat sad that after 49 years of shortages and suffering and repression people are now allowed to buy a rice cooker,'' said Carlos Gutierrez, the secretary of commerce, whose family fled Havana in 1960 when he was 6. ''Our read is that these are tactical moves designed to buy some time.''
 When it comes to truly loosening the political elite's grip on power, in fact, Mr. Castro has not ceded much ground. He has encouraged Cubans to come forward with their critiques of the way things are functioning, although he insists that the proper way to do so is through Communist Party channels.
 When a group of women whose relatives had been jailed held a demonstration outside Mr. Castro's office recently, a team of stern-faced female officers showed up to haul the so-called ladies in white away.
 ''When difficulties are greater, more order and discipline will be required,'' Mr. Castro told party leaders recently, announcing that he would convene the first party congress in a dozen years in the last half of 2009. ''For that, it is vital to strengthen institutions.''
 Mr. Castro commuted the death sentences for an undetermined number of prisoners this week, although the move was dismissed as a half measure by activists who want an end to persecutions of people who speak out against the government.
 ''Things are changing but everything is continuing the same,'' said Elizardo Sanchez, an activist whose Cuban Human Rights and National Reconciliation Commission sees little substantive difference between the hard-line governments of the two Castro brothers.
 Even if Mr. Castro aims to imitate Chinese-style reforms, there is no guarantee he will succeed. In the early days of China's move away from strict socialist central planning, Deng Xiaoping dismantled Mao's cult of personality, allowing a measure of political relaxation that signaled a shift in official attitudes.
 ''Is it possible for Raul Castro to move beyond the cult of personality of his brother Fidel, who is in the same league with Mao?'' asked Michael Green, a former Bush administration Asia specialist who is now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. Cuba could turn out to be more like North Korea, Mr. Green said, which undertook market-oriented reforms in 2002 that brought little change in the grim conditions there.
 There is still plenty of anxiety in Cuba as well. One woman who gave her name only as Iris bought a Nokia phone with the help of her Italian boyfriend but now has no money to buy cards for airtime. When she does, she feels guilty that the money could go to feeding her son. What she wants even more than any consumer item is a well-paying job that would allow her to afford them, she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cubans in Havana recently bought DVD players, among newly available appliances. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
 Cubans waved a picture of Raul Castro on Thursday during a May Day rally in Havana. Mr. Castro is pursuing economic reforms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERTO ROQUE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); POLITICS (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CD & DVD DRIVES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (96%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



62 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2141 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 ANTI-FRENCH BOYCOTT
 Stumbles in China
 On the first day of a planned boycott in China against a French retail chain, a few low-key protests seem to have given way to shopping instead. The grass-roots boycott call was intended as punishment for what China considers France's shabby reception of the Olympic torch but, as one shopper put it, ''Politics is one thing, but the people have to eat.'' PAGE A6
 TOO REVEALING FOR ITALIANS
 In an exercise of transparency that some people found more than a little too revealing, the outgoing government on Wednesday posted online the returns for all 40 million Italians who paid taxes in 2005. The site was instantly jammed with people spying on their neighbors and on the rich and famous for a few hours before the site was closed. PAGE A6 
 BUSH SEEKS MORE FOOD AID
 President Bush proposed spending an additional $770 million in emergency food assistance for poor countries. The proposal came only days after Democrats in Congress called for increases, and it received a largely positive response, though some Democrats criticized the fact that the additional aid would not be available until the next fiscal year. PAGE A7
 U.S. ANGER OVER EXPULSIONS
 The State Department reacted angrily to the expulsion 0f 10 American diplomats by Belarus. A State Department spokesman said that displeasure had been conveyed to Belarus officials in Washington and in Minsk, ''and we have told them that we are considering the full range of options in terms of our respective diplomatic presences.'' PAGE A8 
 REMEMBRANCE OF THINGS DROPPED
 The exhibition ''Memories of Propaganda'' in Chongson, South Korea, reflects a time when North and South jammed each other's radio signals and thought-bombs were delivered on leaflets dropped from above. The South bragged about its growing affluence; the North needled the South as subservient to the ''imperialist'' American military. Not everything has changed. PAGE A9
 London Votes for Mayor A10
 NATIONAL
 TEACHERS IN CALIFORNIA
 Organize a Teach-In
 Dozens of teachers across Oakland set aside their normal lesson plans in favor of such topics as the war in Iraq, racial inequality and a recent 10 percent budget cut for the state's schools. The goal was to raise awareness among students who may not have a firm grasp of the relationship between what happens at home and what happens ''out there.'' PAGE A17 
 DEBATE OVER GAS-TAX HOLIDAY
 Although they found themselves in different parts of the country, and in opposing parties for that matter, Senators John McCain and Hillary Rodham Clinton had one thing in common on their agendas: defending the proposed gas-tax holiday. Critics from both parties lined up against it, including Senator Barack Obama, whose campaign began calling it the ''the McCain-Clinton gas-tax holiday.'' PAGE A16 
 CONCERNS OVER MEASLES OUTBREAK
 Measles outbreaks in at least seven states are expected to produce the highest number of cases in recent years, federal health officials said, warning that measles is highly contagious and can cause severe illness and even death. The largest outbreak is found in New York City, where it was most likely introduced by travelers from other countries. PAGE A12
 LONGSHOREMEN PROTEST IRAQ WAR
 West Coast ports were shut down as thousands of longshoremen failed to report for work, part of what their union leaders said was a one-day, one-shift protest against the war in Iraq. Although union leaders rejected their request to protest and demanded they report to work, about 6,000 workers did not show up, according to a spokesman for the main West Coast employers group. PAGE A12 
 VERDICT IN KILLING IS FAULTED
 A new book asserts that a black radio journalist convicted of murdering a white Philadelphia police officer more than 26 years ago is not guilty and that the crime was actually committed by another man who is now dead. The book is the latest to cast doubt on the conviction, which critics have said was tainted by racism, police corruption and judicial bias, turning the convicted man, Mumia Abu-Jamal into a cause celebre for death penalty opponents. PAGE A17 
 BUSINESS
 HOUSE PANEL APPROVES PACKAGE
 Of $300 Billion for Borrowers
 The House Financial Services Committee approved legislation that would make up to $300 billion in federally insured loans available to refinance the mortgages of borrowers in danger of foreclosure. The package is virtually assured to pass the whole House, but Senate Democrats drafting a similar plan will face a more robust Republican minority. PAGE C3
 SPENDING REMAINS STAGNANT
 Consumer spending barely budged in March, making it the fourth straight month that Americans have tried to conserve cash in the face of high prices and an economic downturn. And they had various reasons: workers' wages continued to grow at an anemic pace, even as higher prices for food and gasoline put a pinch on pocketbooks. (Under Cause/Effect, see the next item.) PAGE C3
 RETAILERS CUT BACK EXPANSIONS
 After a decade of breakneck expansion, big retail chains are slamming on the brakes. Home Depot is abandoning plans to open 50 new stores and will close 15 poorly performing ones. Foot Locker will close 140 stores over the next year, Ann Taylor will start to shut 117, and the jeweler Zales will close 100. Wilsons the Leather Experts, Pacific Sunwear and even Starbucks are cutting back. PAGE C3
 New York Report
 BLOOMBERG BUDGET CALLS 
 For Scaled-Back Spending
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed a $59.1 billion budget that would virtiually halt the growth in city spending for the first time since the economic downturn after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. ''We are living beyond our means,'' he said at a City Hall news conference. The mayor's spending plan is the starting point for negotiations with the City Council. PAGE A20
 BIAS LAWSUIT GROWS TO 58 FROM 4
 The number of women accusing Bloomberg L.P. of discriminating against pregnant employees has increased to 58 from 4. Fifty-four former employees have joined a class-action lawsuit filed against the financial-services and media company, which was founded by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. PAGE A21
 OBITUARIES
 BUZZIE BAVASI, 93
 The general manager of the Dodgers, far left above, during their glory years in Brooklyn and their first decade in Los Angeles, and a baseball executive for nearly a half-century. In his 18 years with the Dodgers, from 1951 to 1968, his clubs won eight National League pennants and four World Championships, including the team's only one in Brooklyn, in 1955. PAGE A19
 CHARLES TILLY, 78
 A social scientist, he combined historical interpretation and quantitative analysis in a voluminous outpouring of work to forge often-novel intellectual interpretations -- as when he compared nation-states to protection rackets. PAGE A19
 SPORTS
 BASEBALL'S BEST RECORD
 Resides in the Desert
 The Arizona Diamondbacks, who open a three-game series against the Mets on Friday at Chase Field, are a beguiling mix of innocence and experience; conviviality and competitiveness; pitching, hitting and defense. They also have the best record in baseball, 20-8, but right now can barely outdraw the local Phoenix N.B.A. team, the Suns. PAGE C9
 RAYS LEAVE (APRIL) LOSING BEHIND
 Some might attribute the success to their shedding of the Devil in their name. Others would point to different players, and a different attitude. Whatever the reasons, the Tampa Bay Rays ended the first month of the season as winners. If they do it for the whole season, it will be the first time. PAGE C13
 NEW SPORT, BUT STILL THROWING
 Billy Brewer pitched in 203 games in relief over seven seasons in the big leagues, but now pursues a different sport as a rookie on the Bassmasters Tour. But his attitude toward the new one sounds just like his attitude toward the previous one: ''This sport is unforgiving, sometimes unfair, but you keep throwing, you compete.'' PAGE C12 
 HIRED TO BE FIRED
 It's a strange world, the coaching business, and never more evidently so than in the N.B.A., where a coach of the year can easily become unemployed and one who was unemployed becomes a coach of the year. Witness Avery Johnson, formerly of the Dallas Mavericks or Byron Scott of New Orleans, who helped make Johnson an ex. Sports of The Times, Harvey Araton. PAGE C9
 ESCAPES
 IN CELEBRITY FOOTSTEPS, 
 But Doing It on the Cheap
 Santa Barbara, Calif., counts among its (at least part-time) residents Oprah Winfrey, John Travolta, Steve Martin, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie. It's not hard to spend $1,000 a night for lodging, or $500 for dinner. So is there any way to do the city on a budget? College students, fixed-income retirees and regular working stiffs live there, too. That might be a clue. PAGE D1 
 THE OTHER EASTERN SHORE
 The Eastern Shore of Virginia, the southern tip of the Delmarva Peninsula, is two skinny counties strung between Maryland's own Eastern Shore and the Bridge-Tunnel. It's only 65 miles long and about 10 miles at its widest. But time is its most elemental dimension: time for nature and wildlife to reclaim island after island, time for one economy to wither and another to grow, time for beaches to form, fill with shells, then vanish. PAGE D4 
 ART KIDS WILL LIKE, TOO
 The Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art and the Norman Rockwell Museum stake out opposite positions in the art world. But given their proximity -- both are in the Berkshires of Massachusetts -- they can make for an eye-opening weekend trip. And each speaks to children, in its own way. PAGE D1 
 Havens: Bedford, N.Y. D3 
 Life on Two Wheels D6 
 Transporting the Car D2 
 WEEKEND
 MADONNA ON THRONE, ON STAGE, 
 Online and on Cellphone
 Madonna played a 32-minute promotional set for her new album on Wednesday night at the Roseland Ballroom in Manhattan. The line for tickets formed 60 hours before showtime, an almost quaint touch. But the album rollout was strictly 21st century with multiple media tie-ins. PAGE B1 
 PLAYING HEAVY LIGHT
 ''Iron Man'' leads the spring and summer's class of superheroes into theaters on Friday, and in addition to going first it has some other advantages, A.O. Scott writes in his review. Among them, he says, is that it's ''an unusually good superhero picture. Or at least -- since it certainly has its problems -- a superhero movie that's good in unusual ways.'' PAGE B1 
 MELTING POT ON HIGH BOIL
 Mention Flushing, Queens, and among the things that come to mind (along with the Mets and tennis, perhaps) is its bustling Asian community, making it a culinary destination. Less known is its historical role in the birth of religious freedom in the United States, which began long before there were any states to be united. PAGE B23 
 RIVALRY ON CANVAS AND PAGE
 Unseen but present in ''Action/Abstraction: Pollock, De Kooning and American Art, 1940-1976,'' a fast-moving exhibition at the Jewish Museum, are two critics whose rivalry, Roberta Smith writes in her review, ''provides the structure for this exceedingly handsome if somewhat peripatetic show.'' They are Clement Greenberg and Harold Rosenberg, ''giants among giants.'' PAGE B23 HELPING MAKE THE PULPIT BULLY
 If you hear ''The only thing we have to fear is fear itself,'' and think immediately of Louis McHenry Howe, then you must have already read ''White House Ghosts,'' a new book about presidential speechwriters. Caryn James calls it ''often lively, sometimes plodding but always valuable and painstakingly researched.'' The author, Robert Schlesinger, has a pedigree; his father was the historian and presidential speechwriter Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. PAGE B30
 CAUGHT ON THE MAT AND IN LIFE
 Start with David Mamet, let him take a sturdy B-movie conceit -- a good man versus the bad world, plus blood -- and then trick it out with his own particular gifts and quirks and what results is ''Redbelt,'' which Manohla Dargis calls ''a satisfying, unexpectedly involving B-movie that owes as much to old Hollywood as to Greek tragedy.'' PAGE B14 
 Music That Redefined Free B8 
 Laughs Among the Garbage Cans B5 
 EDITORIAL
 NOTES FROM THE WAR ON TERROR
 The Bush administration's law-breaking and stonewalling in its war on terrorism never end. PAGE A22
 SHAME IN CALAIS
 Europeans' hypocrisy on immigration should be shamefully familiar to Americans. PAGE A22
 EDITORIAL OBSERVER
 BEYOND THE BUTTERFLY BALLOT
 If the courts won't protect voters, Congress has to. PAGE A22
 OP-ED
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Republicans have become the party of denial. If a problem can't be solved with deregulation and tax cuts, they pretend it doesn't exist. That's the party line that Democrats should be pushing. PAGE A23
 DAVID BROOKS
 Globalization is real and important. It's just not the central force driving economic change. PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); OLYMPIC TORCH PROTESTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX RELIEF (74%); FUEL TAX (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); BUDGETS (74%); OLYMPICS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (64%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); BELARUS (91%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



63 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Unlikely Allies Campaign For a Gas-Tax Holiday

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN; Patrick Healy contributed reporting from Jeffersonville, Ind., and Jeff Zeleny from South Bend, Ind.

DATELINE: DES MOINES 

 BODY:
Senators John McCain and Hillary Rodham Clinton found themselves taking a lonely stand on the campaign trail Thursday, defending the proposed gasoline-tax holiday while critics from both parties lined up against it.
 Three times, twice unprompted, Mr. McCain, of Arizona, brought up the idea, which Senator Barack Obama's campaign began calling ''the McCain-Clinton gas-tax holiday.''
 Their proposal would suspend the federal excise tax on gasoline, 18.4 cents a gallon, for the summer travel season. 
 Mrs. Clinton, campaigning in central and southern Indiana, championed her plan as a boon to commuters, truckers and summer vacationers.
 At an event in Jeffersonville, Ind., on Thursday evening, Mrs. Clinton amplified her frequent pledge to introduce legislation to suspend the gas tax, saying she wanted to put members of Congress on the spot on the issue.
 ''Do they stand with hard-pressed Americans who are trying to pay their gas bills at the gas station or do they once again stand with the big oil companies?'' Mrs. Clinton, of New York, said. ''That's a vote I'm going to try to get, because I want to know where they stand, and I want them to tell us -- are they with us or against us?'' (Some Clinton supporters and superdelegates in Congress are among those who oppose a gas tax holiday.)
 In Iowa, sounding more exasperated as the day went on, Mr. McCain grimaced slightly when a questioner at a town-hall-style meeting asked him about the plan.
 ''You'd think that I was attacking Western civilization as we know it,'' Mr. McCain replied. ''The special interests, 'Oh, my God. This will destroy our transportation system in America. This will have disastrous consequences.' Look, all I think is we ought to give low-income Americans, in particular, a little relief.''
 Mr. McCain did not say which special interests he meant. But by Thursday afternoon, opposition to the plan was robust and bipartisan, including Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota; Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa; and Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California.
 Even lawmakers in Mrs. Clinton's backyard, including Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City (a former Republican, now an independent) and Gov. David A. Paterson, a Democrat, expressed doubts. 
 ''It's about the dumbest thing I've heard in an awful long time from an economic point of view,'' Mr. Bloomberg told reporters, adding that he did not see ''any merit to it whatsoever.''
 The gas-tax holiday has emerged as one of the most contentious topics in the presidential race, with Mr. Obama, of Illinois, alone among the three candidates opposing the idea. The divide offers a glimpse into a prospective general-election issue, should he win the nomination.
 ''Listen, these gas prices are brutal on people,'' Mr. Obama told voters Thursday in Columbia City, Ind. ''Now, John McCain decided that he would solve this problem after being in Congress for 25 years by suspending the gas tax for three months. What that would do is save the average driver 30 cents a day -- a nickel and a quarter, 30 cents a day. It would save you a total of about $28 for the entire year -- $28.''
 The raised tone of Mr. Obama's voice underscored the potency of the issue. His advisers pointed to a raft of experts and newspaper editorials ranging across the ideological spectrum who agreed with him, and the campaign hoped that voters would agree in Indiana's primary on Tuesday. (The conservative editorial board of The Wall Street Journal said the idea ''smacks of poll-driven gimmickry.'')
 Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for Mr. McCain, cited nine official co-sponsors for a bill based on his proposal, including Senators Mel Martinez of Florida and Jon Kyl of Arizona, both Republicans.
 Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton are broadcasting dueling television advertisements on the topic. For his part, Mr. Obama is using a 60-second commercial in Indiana and North Carolina to explain his resistance to lifting the gas tax for the summer. ''Honest answers,'' the advertisement states. ''Not Washington gimmicks.''
 Mrs. Clinton cast herself as a modern-day Theodore Roosevelt taking on major economic interests. She called the gas tax holiday a first step to building a coalition of Americans to challenge oil companies and ultimately bust up and minimize their power by steering the nation's energy policy toward alternative fuels. Her plan includes imposing a windfall profit tax on oil companies.
 ''I'm the only candidate who has a plan to give relief to the nation's drivers and to pay for it,'' Mrs. Clinton said Thursday in Brownsburg, Ind.. ''And people need relief.''
 Campaigning in Cleveland, Mr. McCain suggested that low-income families were hit hardest by the cost of fuel because they typically drove longer distances to work in older-model automobiles.
 ''Why not give them a little break?'' he said. ''Instead, with all due respect to those who travel around in chauffeured limousines, you'd think that we are destroying the economy of America.'' Mr. McCain acknowledged that the proposed gas-tax holiday did not take on bigger problems.
 ''No one that I know of, particularly me, that supports this gas tax holiday believes that it addresses the fundamental issue of energy independence,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain arriving on Thursday in Des Moines to be driven to a campaign event.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL TAX (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXCISE TAX (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); GASOLINE (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); SUPERDELEGATES (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); JOHN THUNE (79%); TOM HARKIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); DAVID PATERSON (59%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



64 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Party of Denial

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
During Barack Obama's Sunday appearance on Fox News, the interviewer asked him for an example of ''a hot-button issue where you would be willing to buck the Democratic Party line'' and say that Republicans have the better idea.
 Mr. Obama's answer was puzzling because he gave credit where it isn't due -- and thereby undermined what could be a very effective Democratic line of argument. 
 In particular, Mr. Obama attributed to Republicans the idea that regulation can be flexible rather than a matter of ''top-down command and control,'' and in particular for the idea of controlling pollution with a system of tradable emission permits rather than rigid regulations. 
 Well, that's not at all what actually happened -- and the tale of what really did happen has a lot of relevance to current events.
 It's true that the first President Bush established a market-based system for controlling sulfur dioxide emissions, which has been highly successful at controlling acid rain. But by then the idea of markets in emission permits had long been accepted by economists of all political stripes.
 And it had also been accepted by leading Democrats. The Environmental Protection Agency began letting cities meet air-quality standards using emissions-trading systems during the Carter administration -- which also led the way on deregulation of airlines and trucking.
 Furthermore, the sulfur dioxide scheme actually marked a sharp change in policy from the Reagan administration, which -- committed to the belief that government is always the problem, never the solution -- spent eight years opposing any effort to control acid rain. 
 Rather than admit that pollution is a problem the government has to solve -- even as the consequences of acid rain became ever more alarming, not to mention as America's failure to act provoked a near-crisis in relations with Canada, which was suffering the effects of U.S.-generated sulfur dioxide -- the Reaganites insisted that there was no problem at all. They denied the evidence, questioned the science, called for more research and did nothing. Sound familiar?
 And that, surely, is the line the Democrats should be pushing in this election: Republicans have become the party of denial. If a problem can't be solved with deregulation and tax cuts, they pretend it doesn't exist.
 Climate change is the obvious contemporary parallel with acid rain. But if the Democrats really want to pin the denialist label on John McCain, health care is the place to focus.
 The health care situation, in case you haven't noticed, is going from bad to worse. Many smaller companies stopped offering benefits between 2000 and 2005. In the past, health coverage has tended to improve when the economy recovers from recession -- but the ''Bush boom'' brought at best a temporary stabilization. 
 And now that the economy is weakening again, another plunge is in progress: last week UnitedHealth warned investors that its business is suffering because fewer employers are offering coverage to their workers.
 The Democrats have been offering real plans in response; they're not perfect, but they are serious.
 The G.O.P., by contrast -- and this goes as much for Mr. McCain as for the Bush administration -- hasn't even tried to address concerns about coverage. Instead, it has all been about costs, which Republicans insist (wrongly) can be dramatically reduced by a policy of, you guessed it, deregulation and tax cuts.
 Until a few days ago, the only answer the McCain campaign offered to those worried about lack of coverage was the vague, implausible assertion that the magic of the marketplace would make health care cheap enough for everyone to afford.
 Now Mr. McCain has admitted that maybe a government program is needed for those who can't get private insurance. This appears to be a response to criticism from Elizabeth Edwards, who has been pointing out that deregulated insurers would deny coverage to anyone with, say, a history of cancer -- a category that includes both her and Mr. McCain himself. But the way Mrs. Edwards has rattled the McCain campaign is evidence of just how vulnerable he is on the issue. 
 The point is that the health care issue could be Exhibit A for a Democratic campaign based on the argument that they are the party of pragmatic solutions, while modern Republicans won't even acknowledge problems that don't fit into their rigid ideological framework.
 But are Democrats ready to make that case? 
 To be clear, both Democratic candidates have been saying things they shouldn't; Hillary Clinton shouldn't have endorsed the bad idea of a gas tax holiday.
 But I think Mr. Obama is doing much more harm to the Democratic cause by echoing Republican attack lines on such issues as insurance mandates and Social Security. And now he's demonstrating his post-partisanship by giving Republicans credit for good ideas they never had. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ACID RAIN (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); AIR QUALITY (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



65 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Minister's Comments Hold Little Sway in Indianapolis Enclave

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
In the cafes, gift stores and the gourmet dog biscuit shop in this city's neighborhood of Broad Ripple Village, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr.'s name draws all sorts of responses -- sighs, rolling eyes, laughter, grim silence.
 But many people, like Clyde H. Crockett, a retired law professor who was sipping a drink in a coffee shop here on Thursday, said his thoughts about Mr. Wright would have no bearing on his decision -- still unfinished -- about whom to vote for in Indiana's Democratic primary on Tuesday. 
 ''Why should it?'' Mr. Crockett said. ''No one should be tainted because of Reverend Wright.''
 The shoppers in Broad Ripple and in the neighborhoods nearby reflect a demographic group -- mostly white, highly educated, professional, artsy, relatively well-off, politically independent -- that has leaned toward Senator Barack Obama in other states and one that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton will hope to gain an edge with here, in a state that polls show as almost evenly split. 
 But in interviews here on Thursday, voters said Mr. Wright's highly publicized comments and the responses and echoes that have followed had had little bearing on them.
 Supporters of both Democratic candidates said that they did not think the Wright episode should change the race but said, again and again, that they feared it might in other, less cosmopolitan areas of Indiana where they thought people might be searching for some acceptable explanation for not voting for a black candidate. 
 Mr. Crockett, who said he was leaning ever so slightly toward Mr. Obama over Mrs. Clinton, his wife's preferred candidate, said he worried that Mr. Obama's ties to his former pastor could harm him among voters in the far southern part of the state, the small towns, the more conservative enclaves.
 ''I think Reverend Wright will give a lot of people an excuse not to vote for Obama,'' Mr. Crockett said. ''They're looking for an excuse, and this will be it.''
 Many here said they were disturbed by Mr. Wright's views, and some quickly ticked off those they saw as most puzzling. Among them: a suggestion that the United States was capable of using the AIDS virus to commit genocide against minorities.
 ''It makes me sick,'' said Linda K. Stephenson, 57, who is supporting Mrs. Clinton but says she ''completely separates'' Mr. Obama, whom she likes, from Mr. Wright. ''I think he may be crazy. I really do.''
 M. Shane Wolff, 40, who said he generally voted Republican, said Mr. Wright had ''really slammed America,'' adding quickly, ''Midwestern and Indiana folks do not like that.''
 Others here were less put off. Some said they found Mr. Wright's comments provocative; others viewed them as an overblown distraction to the bigger issues of the economy, health care and gasoline prices. 
 Most people interviewed also said they wished Mr. Obama had distanced himself from Mr. Wright more firmly, more rapidly. Many said they admired Mr. Obama's emotional words on Tuesday, but wondered why they had not come sooner. Waiting seemed ''passive,'' several said. 
 Still, no one interviewed here said that Mr. Wright had affected how they or anyone they knew would vote. Michael B. O'Connor, the Democratic Party chairman for Marion County, which includes Indianapolis, said he had heard of no major shifts. 
 ''People that are supporting Obama are continuing to support Obama,'' said Mr. O'Connor, who has endorsed Mrs. Clinton though the county party has made no official pick. ''I think they are looking at this with raised eyebrows about the attention it's getting, but not from the perspective of changing their view of who to support.''
 Marion County, which John Kerry narrowly won in 2004 (50.5 percent to 48.6 percent) while George W. Bush won the state with 60 percent of the vote, is expected to be an important battleground for Mr. Obama.
 Several undecided voters interviewed said that they were looking for a reason to go one way or another, but that Mr. Wright would most certainly not be it. ''That has no bearing on my decision,'' Jess McKinney, 31, said, adding that he was leaning ''51-to-49'' for Mr. Obama. 
 Another undecided voter, Ronald Rockey, 57, said his choice would not be affected by Mr. Wright, though he said he was sure that other voters might be affected. ''It's a volatile issue and some people will worry,'' Mr. Rockey said. 
 Most everyone spoke of so-called Hoosiers -- somewhere to the south, somewhere rural, somewhere other than here -- who might be troubled. 
 ''We're a fairly conservative state,'' said Laura L. Green, 50, a social worker and supporter of Mr. Obama. ''Look, some people struggle with his name. For someone who is on the fence, this could touch them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jess McKinney, 31, of Indianapolis said the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. would not affect him.
 Linda K. Stephenson, 57, said she separated Senator Barack Obama from Mr. Wright.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PET FOODS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%); AIDS & HIV (50%); VIRUSES (50%)

PERSON: JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (91%) INDIANA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



66 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seeks More Food Aid for Poor Countries

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush on Thursday proposed spending an additional $770 million in emergency food assistance for poor countries, responding to rising food prices that have resulted in social unrest in several nations. 
 The president's proposal came only days after Democrats in Congress called for increases, and it received a largely positive response, though some Democrats criticized the fact that the additional aid would not be available until the next fiscal year, which begins in October.
 Mr. Bush's proposal, announced in a previously unscheduled appearance in the East Room of the White House, underscored how quickly the global food crisis had risen to the top of Washington's agenda. 
 The administration last month ordered the Department of Agriculture to release $200 million in commodities paid for by a special trust fund, while the United States Agency for International Development promised $40 million more in emergency aid to countries hardest hit by soaring prices and shortages.
 ''In some of the world's poorest nations, rising prices can mean the difference between getting a daily meal and going without food,'' Mr. Bush said.
 The $770 million would be included in next year's budget, increasing total American food assistance to $2.6 billion, the deputy budget director, Stephen S. McMillin, said in a telephone conference. In the current year, the administration has proposed supplemental spending to bring the total to $2.3 billion, he said.
 Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the chamber's second-ranking Democrat, welcomed the president's proposal ''as a sign of the magnitude of this problem.'' But a fellow Democrat, Senator Robert P. Casey Jr. of Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview that the administration needed to act with ''a real sense of urgency'' and endorse a swifter increase. Mr. Casey and Mr. Durbin this week asked the administration for an immediate $200 million increase in foreign food aid, on top of a $350 million emergency package the administration had already proposed in a supplemental spending measure. 
 ''The dollar amount is significant,'' Mr. Casey said of the president's latest proposal. ''The commitment is important. It is way too late.''
 In his remarks, Mr. Bush also called on other countries to ease trade barriers restricting agricultural imports or exports and to lift bans on genetically modified foods. He urged Congress to give the government greater flexibility in dispersing assistance. He said the administration wanted to use a quarter of all the American aid to buy food from local farmers in foreign countries rather than here in the United States.
 ''In order to break the cycle of famine that we're having to deal with too often in a modern era, it's important to help build up local agriculture,'' he said. He did not insist on that approach as a condition for increasing aid, though.
 The proposal received strong support on Thursday from the charity Oxfam America. ''While America provides half of the world's food aid, this generosity is undermined by legal restrictions and bureaucracy, as food aid must be purchased in the U.S. and transported on U.S.-flagged ships,'' Oxfam said in a statement.
 Addressing growing anxiety about rising food prices at home, the subject of a Senate hearing on Thursday, the White House emphasized that even with the proposed increases, foreign food aid was equal to only a small fraction of the $62 billion the government was expected to spend this year on domestic food programs, mostly for food stamps and children's nutrition programs.
 ''The American people are generous people, and they're compassionate people,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We believe in a timeless truth: to whom much is given, much is expected.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 9, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Friday about President Bush's proposal for $770 million in foreign food aid misidentified the room in the White House where he made the announcement. It was the Diplomatic Reception Room, not the East Room.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush on Thursday called for an additional $770 million in emergency foreign food aid.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FAMINE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (74%); AGRICULTURE (74%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (74%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); RANKINGS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); IMPORT CONTROLS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BOB CASEY (78%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008



67 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Bids for Botox? Auctions Go Deep to Aid Schools

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
The auctioneer came on with a bold pitch, trying to get the bidders to open their wallets as wide as possible.
 ''I want you to prove to the world that we're not in a slowdown economy,'' he pleaded with his audience, the parents of Public School 41 in Greenwich Village. 
 The first item was a large canvas painted with bright flowers, made by the kindergarten class. The opening bid was set at $500. 
 ''Come on parents, prove that you love your children,'' he said, his laughter not stopping a few winces in the audience. 
 Sold, for $1,100. 
 New York schools have withstood budget cuts of $180 million this year, and are facing more, giving a renewed urgency to the school auction season, in full swing across the city. Although many parent associations hold fund-raising events, auctions are largely a phenomenon of schools in affluent areas, where parents have the connections to garner desirable donations -- like a meal at AquaGrill, a Botox ''house call'' or a behind-the-scenes tour of a television show -- and the money to bid on them. 
 At P.S. 41's auction, held at the Puck Building in SoHo, Michele Farinet, the parent coordinator for the school, stepped up at the request of the auctioneer. She exhorted parents to put up their paddles for a special ''fund a cause,'' which she said could be anything from books to tables and chairs. 
 ''There are budget cuts this year, but we are going to make sure that we give the kids what they need before the mayor and the chancellor take it away from them,'' she said, trying to fire up the bidders. 
 Her voice rose with her pleas: ''When the mayor comes knocking at 11 o'clock on a Friday night and says, 'Guess what, principals, you are going to lose 10 percent,' at least our principal will know that our parents have done this!''
 Modeled after events at private schools, public school auctions have become increasingly elaborate in recent years, in settings that have moved from school cafeterias and local pizza shops to deluxe locations like the Puck Building and Guastavino's on the Upper East Side. The events raise crucial dollars for computers and foreign language classes, art supplies and teaching assistants, dance instruction, counting blocks for math, white boards -- anything that parents might consider essential but that the standard allocation from the city's Department of Education does not cover. 
 Auction organizers see the events as a way for these schools to make up for the federal financing that poorer schools receive, which cannot be cut by the city. And they acknowledge that the relative wealth of their parent groups allows them to pull in significant sums.
 The department does not track how much is raised through auctions, but anecdotes suggest they pull in tens of thousands of dollars; smaller schools may bring in $15,000, while larger schools raise upward of $150,000 in good years. The Anderson School, a citywide gifted program on the Upper West Side, raised $245,000 at its auction last month, held at the Church of St. Paul the Apostle. 
 Even though the Education Department has its own fund-raising arm, it does not help parents organize auctions at their schools. But parents have formed loosely organized networks to share tips on what sells best and where to find the best accounting software.
 At P.S. 41, a highly coveted school on West 11th Street, the roughly $100,000 raised during the auction is expected to pay for specialist teachers, who work both with gifted students and those who fall behind. But the money may have to stretch further this year to make up for any basics lost by the school's $65,000 in city cuts.
 The crowd was eager to respond to coaxing from the auctioneer, Alasdair Nichol, and Ms. Farinet. When Ms. Farinet asked parents to bid for the ''fund a cause,'' with each paddle representing a $50 pledge, she estimated that she took in $4,000 in less than 10 minutes. That was just $500 less than the priciest item sold -- a limited-edition Andy Warhol lithograph.
 Those pledges were some of the cheapest purchases of the evening. The event began with a silent auction, with parents milling around dozens of tables, browsing items ranging from silver-and-quartz earrings for $100 to a rabbit-fur jacket at $350. There were certificates for hair color services at $150 and a week's stay at a Newport, R.I., summer home for $800. 
 There was the predictable -- reservations at some of the city's top restaurants, like Japonica and Los Dados, in addition to AquaGrill. There was the special -- a Nintendo Wii at $400 and tickets to see the Yankees on the Fourth of July. And there was the slightly unusual -- pole dancing lessons at $100. Tucked in the table without any fanfare was a Botox ''house call'' at $450, with plenty of bidders willing to pay more. 
 ''You've got to just be willing to look at anything,'' said Marianna Baldi, who bid on the Yankees tickets, not the Botox, and whose four children have all attended P.S. 41. ''And you have to remember that the money is going to support the school and your kids. You don't have to set a price limit for that.'' 
 Natalie Stella Judelson, a consultant who works with private schools and other nonprofit groups, said the most popular items were those that cannot be assigned an easy dollar figure, like the television show tour or a walk-on appearance in a movie. 
 ''Fund-raising has become so evolved and involved that you always have to try to figure out what the next best thing is going to be,'' she said. ''You have to know what appeals to your school market. What goes for $2,000 one place can barely make $500 in another.'' 
 Across the city, organizers say some of the most popular offerings are play dates for students with beloved teachers, with activities like getting a manicure together, having ice cream or even going along when the teacher walks her dog. Parents speak of them as ''Experiences'' (a reverent capital E is often implied) that their children beg for them to bid on. 
 At P.S. 41's auction, the silent bidding for a pizza lunch with two fourth-grade teachers climbed steadily for hours, the list of bids growing far longer than the bid sheet on the table.
 ''He just kept telling me over and over to do it,'' said Jean Bennett, moments after she bid $780 on behalf of her 10-year-old son, Luca. ''Why, I don't know, he's 10, he doesn't say why. This was just important to him, and I figure they do a lot of good work, so the school deserves it.'' 
 Parents insisted that they do not expect the students with the winning bids to get special treatment from the teachers, but simply a chance to revel in the undivided attention. 
 After a fierce bidding war, Ms. Bennett and another mother decided to call a truce and cap the bidding at $1,000 -- splitting the price and sending their two sons, who are friends, together. 
 Auction organizers say they work hard to make all parents feel welcome, regardless of whether they can afford the several thousand dollars it takes to get the choicest items like Italian vacation homes and private art viewings. 
 ''We really have to have something for everybody, because we're depending on people coming back year after year,'' said Sara Kimbell, the organizer of P.S. 41's auction. The lavish food spread, combined with a D.J. and open bar, help make the auction feel more like an A-list social event than a school fund-raiser, she said. ''At the end of the day, this is all about the bottom line, so we can keep the budget that we want.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We really have to have something for everybody,'' said the organizer of Public School 41's auction in Manhattan last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); DANCE EDUCATION (72%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



68 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Developers Picked for 2 Closed Brooklyn Firehouses

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON; Daniel J. Wakin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In something of a split decision, the city selected developers to remake two closed firehouses in Brooklyn on Friday, giving one to a firefighter advocacy group in Williamsburg but overlooking a similar group and choosing instead the Brooklyn Philharmonic to redevelop a firehouse in Cobble Hill. 
 The unsuccessful Cobble Hill group, Friends of Firefighters, had hoped to turn the decommissioned firehouse of Engine 204 at 299 DeGraw Street into a counseling and therapy center, as well as a community center with an emphasis on fire safety. Instead, it will become the B.P. Music Center and will include administrative offices for the orchestra as well as space for community music and arts events, according to the announcement by the city's Economic Development Corporation, which selected the philharmonic over other prospective developers. 
 ''It's a disappointment for firefighters,'' said Nancy Carbone, the executive director and founder of Friends of Firefighters, established after the Sept. 11 attack. ''It's a disappointment for the community. However, I don't want to disparage any use the winners will be using it for.''
 The other firehouse, formerly home to Engine 212 on Wythe Avenue in Williamsburg, will be turned over to the very group that protested its closing with barricades and sit-ins, the People's Firehouse. That group and another, the Neighbors Allied for Good Growth, will use the firehouse as a community center, said Kurt Hill, director of outreach and anti-arson programs at People's Firehouse. 
 ''We have a historic relationship with that structure,'' he said, adding that he hoped that working firefighters would return to the firehouse one day. ''We're of course trying to bring the engine company back online. Just because it was closed down doesn't mean that that's going to be forever. This is an expanding community. We're very, very happy that we won it.''
 Both firehouses were closed in 2003. In 2007, the Economic Development Corporation put out a request for proposals for redeveloping the firehouses. The Brooklyn Philharmonic has proposed investing approximately $2.6 million in redeveloping the DeGraw Street firehouse, while the People's Firehouse and Neighbors Allied for Good Growth will spend about half that, the city development agency said in its announcement. Both firehouses will retain their 19th-century character and appearance.
 ''Good economic development should always be accompanied by development that makes communities more attractive places to live and work,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the development agency, in a statement. ''The projects will also provide growth opportunities for three important not-for-profit community cultural organizations.''
 The closing of the firehouses led to public outcry and arrests, as protesters formed human chains in front of them. One of those arrested was Stephanie Folwell, a spokeswoman for Friends of Firefighters, who said that the group had hoped to keep the firehouse ''warm'' in the event the city recommissioned Engine 204 someday, and that the decision to give the building to the philharmonic mystified her. 
 ''I think that there is adequate space within the borough that probably is bigger and better and could serve them better,'' she said. ''I can't imagine that anyone thinks that anyone but firefighters should be in a building that was built specifically for them. From that standpoint, it just seems like an odd choice.''
 Tom Butler, a spokesman for the Uniformed Firefighters Association, said, ''Anything less than the reopening of the firehouses fails to protect these communities.'' 
 Catherine M. Cahill, the president and chief executive of the philharmonic, said the orchestra would use the second floor for administrative offices and the first floor for educational and cultural activities: workshops for children, training sessions for teaching fellows, recitals and weekend activities, for example. The orchestra will let community groups use the space without cost. The orchestra also hopes to put a deck on the roof for receptions.
 The decision gives the orchestra a permanent home; it has moved around since leaving the Brooklyn Academy of Music 10 years ago. ''This gives the orchestra a real sense of roots in the community,'' Ms. Cahill said. ''It's a major turning point for the orchestra moving forward.'' 
 The lease with the city, for $1 a year, will last 10 years, she said.
 The orchestra still must raise most of the money for the renovation. It already has $368,000 in capital grants from the borough president's office, Ms. Cahill said, and is confident it can raise the rest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ARSON (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



69 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage-Free, but Not Free From the Temptation to Borrow

BYLINE: By JANE BIRNBAUM

 BODY:
This is a story about the other homeowners. Not the ones who are having trouble making their mortgage payments and getting all the attention lately. No, this is about the homeowners who do not owe any money on their primary residences because they have paid off their loans. 
 They are the ones, generally, who did not get caught up in the home buying frenzy earlier in this decade. And they are the ones the banks would love to serve. 
 According to the Census Bureau, of the some 75 million people who reported owning their own homes in 2006, approximately 32 percent said they had no mortgage. The median value of a mortgage-free residence in 2006 was $140,400, the Census Bureau found.
 Mortgage-free homeowners tend to be older, according to Richard Riley, a professor of accounting at West Virginia University. Using the latest available census data, from 2000, Mr. Riley and colleagues found that 74.9 percent of owners 70 and older had no mortgage on a primary dwelling, compared with 55.4 percent of those in their 60s and 31.2 percent of those in their 50s. 
 The question for these consumers is what to do with a houseful of equity. The answer depends on whether they have enough cash flow to meet their needs.
 Susan Wachter, a professor of real estate at the University of Pennsylvania, said that ''those who need to sell or borrow now are exposed to the turmoil of the market.'' But, she added, ''Those who don't need money are in a good position -- interest rates are low and their ability to borrow has never been better.''
 Because a home is more than an investment, older consumers, especially, may require professional help to crunch the numbers needed to make decisions, said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic Policy Research in Washington. 
 Consumers who lack enough cash flow to stay in their homes without borrowing have tough choices. For those 62 and older, an option is a reverse mortgage. These loans generate monthly payments to the borrower, in return for the lender putting a lien against the property that is paid off after the borrower leaves it or dies. 
 ''But even the best reverse mortgages are expensive, the amount of equity that can be paid out is limited, and the risk of interest rate fluctuations reducing what heirs can inherit is sometimes greater than disclosed,'' said Conrad Kuiken Jr., a Realtor and mortgage broker in Carlsbad, Calif. 
 Another option is taking a home equity loan or home equity line of credit -- a Heloc, which is used like a credit card -- to pay expenses. But here, too, borrowing is limited, said Percy Bolton, a certified financial planner in Pasadena, Calif., because lenders want documentation of income to repay loans. 
 Many homeowners who may need to tap their equity soon or down the road should sell and downsize now, according to Mr. Bolton. ''Take the profit and divide it up into a number of areas,'' he advised. ''Deposit some in an annuity but don't lock it up, and some in bonds, especially municipals if possible and maybe some corporate blue-chip AAA-rated.'' 
 One other piece of advice, he said, ''Stay away from the stock market until we have clarity about who will be elected president, and then dollar-cost average in over the next 36 months.'' 
 Consumers with a reliable income and frugal ways, plus a mortgage-free home, have the most flexibility. 
 In Los Angeles, Florabel Kinsler, 79, a clinical social worker who practices part time, has calculated that she can comfortably manage aging in her house. Her bills include repairing the 60-year-old house, where she has lived for 36 years. It stands on land valued at over $2 million, she said. 
 Ms. Kinsler has adequate income thanks to a pension from her deceased husband, who was an aerospace engineer; long-term care policies; and a lifetime of careful investment and spending. ''We never took a loan against the house,'' she recalled. ''Then, when we were older and wanting to avoid risk, we realized that if we continued to live moderately, we wouldn't have to borrow.'' 
 Linda and Paul Spiegler, a travel agent and a solo-practice physician, also said they watched their spending. They were able to pay off their house in Washington as well as work less as they moved into their 60s. 
 Five years ago, Ms. Spiegler won a property tax reduction when she persuaded a city assessor that her home was not in good condition. When Dr. Spiegler turned 65 the next year, the couple took advantage of property tax breaks for older citizens with household incomes under $100,000. 
 Bernadette and Conrad Kuiken -- both 75 and the parents of Mr. Kuiken Jr., the California mortgage broker -- live in a mortgage-free home on Long Beach Island in New Jersey that, they said, is now valued at more than $2 million. Because they each come from families that lost homes in the 1930s, they used to keep a year's worth of mortgage payments in the bank. ''We did it through very conservative living and my husband's good fortune as a union electrician,'' Ms. Kuiken explained. 
 Today, the Kuikens' property tax on their primary residence plus a rental house nearby totals about $20,000 annually. ''It's always at the back of my mind,'' Ms. Kuiken said. ''The average person would be in pain having to pay that. We have a pension, Social Security, a good annuity fund and interest- and-depreciation tax deductions on our rental.'' 
 Three years ago, the Kuikens said they refinanced the rental, which had also been paid off, after their son persuaded them to increase their cash flow and liquidity. They invested about 30 percent of its equity in New Jersey municipal bonds. 
 Such diversification is wise, said Gibran Nicholas, president of the Certified Mortgage Planning Specialist Institute in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''If the housing market goes down and you need access to that wealth, it's available to you,'' he said. 
 Banks may be eager to lend to such consumers but homeowners should be cautious, said Allen Fishbein, director of credit and housing policy for the Consumer Federation of America in Washington. 
 Josephine Damon, the maiden name of a homeowner in Long Beach, Calif., who did not want to be further identified, said she and her husband walked away before signing a $900,000 Heloc on their paid-for home valued at $1.2 million. Both longtime real estate investors in their 80s, the couple said they wanted a Heloc established in case an earthquake temporarily disrupted rental income from their apartment building. 
 The loan had been approved. But when the couple read the contract before signing, they learned that they would be waiving many federal and state consumer protections, including California's anti-deficiency law. (Such state laws make it harder for lenders to pursue borrowers' other assets if they default on home loans.) 
 ''When we told a manager that we couldn't accept that language, no one offered to amend it and we walked out,'' Ms. Damon said. ''For now, we have decided to manage without a Heloc.'' 
 Bothering to read the small print is ''a marvelous thing,'' said Sandy Rae, a trusts and estate lawyer in Manhattan Beach, Calif. ''Banks wouldn't put language in contracts unless they intended to make use of it later if it benefited them,'' he said, adding that consumers can negotiate and sometimes still get desired loans after striking out troubling terms. 
 About two years ago, Jim Thorbeck, a retired union maintenance mechanic in the Midwest, and his wife decided to borrow against their paid-for home, then valued at about $100,000. ''We were able to pay off our home because I had never been laid off,'' Mr. Thorbeck said. 
 To build a sunroom for their 11 grandchildren to play in and work space for Mr. Thorbeck to ply his trade as a fifth-generation safe repairman, the couple took a $50,000 10-year fixed-rate loan. But because he worried about his wife making the monthly payments if something happened to him, Mr. Thorbeck, now 65, said he also took out a $50,000 life insurance policy that expires when the loan is paid off. 
 Although homeowners without mortgages tend to be older, some are in the thick of working years. ''Typically, when people sell a business, the first thing they do is pay off their mortgage, but that may not be a smart financial decision,'' Mr. Nicholas of the mortgage planning institute said. 
 Joe Belew, president of the Consumer Bankers Association in Washington, suggested that consumers of every age who have paid off their mortgages save the same amount monthly. ''Keep socking it away,'' he said, ''and you can borrow from yourself.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Florabel Kinsler, a clinical social worker in Los Angeles, has paid off her mortgage and says she can comfortably manage in her house. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (78%); CENSUS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); MATURE MARKET (74%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%)

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (85%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



70 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: It's Newer Homes That Stand Empty as Vacancies Rise

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
THERE are a record number of vacant homes in America, the government reported this week, and the vacancies are concentrated in the newest part of America's housing stock. 
 The Census Bureau reported that 2.9 percent of homes intended for owner occupancy were vacant at the end of the first quarter. That figure had begun to rise even during the housing boom, a little-noticed byproduct of the aggressive construction of homes encouraged by easy credit. Before 2006, that figure had never exceeded 2 percent.
 Houses can be rented out, of course, even if they had been intended to be lived in by the owner, but the rental market also has high vacancies now. Over all, 10.1 percent of homes intended for rental are vacant. That rate is a little below the record level hit in 2004, but it is still higher than it ever was before the construction boom of this decade.
 The figures include both single-family homes and apartments. In rentals, the vacancy rates are almost equal for homes and apartments. But in the owner market, the vacancies are much more concentrated in condominiums. In buildings with five to nine units -- like many garden apartment buildings -- the condominium vacancy rate is an unprecedented 15.2 percent. That is up from 12.2 percent at the end of 2007. Before 2006, that rate had never been as high as 10 percent.
 Even worse news for those who bought new homes or apartments in recent years is that the vacancy rates in those properties are far higher than they are in older buildings. For homes and condominiums built after March 2000, the vacancy rate for homes intended for owner occupancy is 10.2 percent, up from 8.8 percent at the end of 2007. 
 For rental units, the figures are even greater. There, 25.2 percent -- or one of every four -- of housing units built since the spring of 2000 are vacant.
 Vacancy rates vary by market, of course. At the end of 2007, areas with the highest vacancy rates in housing intended for owner occupancy fell into two categories: Rust Belt areas like Detroit, Cleveland and Akron, Ohio, and former boom areas like Orlando and Tampa in Florida, and Las Vegas. Although home prices have fallen sharply in parts of California, only the Sacramento area shows high vacancy levels.
 High vacancy rates put renewed pressure on prices, of course, and also serve as a warning that the home building industry may have a long wait before it can regain volume. 
 Residential construction's share of the economy fell to 3.8 percent in the first quarter, down from a peak of 6.3 percent in the first quarter of 2006, when home prices were nearing their highs. But that figure is not far below the average figure for the 1990s, 4.1 percent, and well above the low of 3.3 percent, reached in the first quarter of 1991 after the last major housing market setback.

GRAPHIC: CHART: MORE EMPTY HOMES: The vacancy rate in American homes and condominiums rose to 2.9 percent in the first quarter of 2008, its highest level since the government began tracking the statistic. (Source: Census Bureau, via Haver Analytics) Chart showing the rise in vacant homes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); CENSUS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



71 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Shares Gain, but Profit Takers Trim a Rally

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street turned in a mixed performance on Friday as investors set aside some initial enthusiasm over a stronger-than-expected jobs report to lock in some of their recent gains. 
 Blue-chip stocks logged their third weekly advance in a row as investors grew more confident about the economy's ability to outrun a deep downturn.
 The reports on employment and the pace of orders at factories offered fresh evidence that the economy might not be in as worrisome a state as many had feared. But a surprise quarterly loss from Sun Microsystems weighed on the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index. 
 Still, buyers outnumbered sellers after a government report showed that the nation's employers cut far fewer jobs than expected last month.
 Dave Rovelli, managing director of United States equity trading at Canaccord Adams, said stocks pulled back from the day's highs because many investors opted to hold on to gains after a decent run-up, including a 190-point surge in the Dow Jones industrials on Thursday.
 ''This is just normal profit taking,'' he said, adding: ''Sun Microsystems' earnings today didn't help the cause.''
 The employment report came at the end of a critical week for Wall Street. While corporate results dominated in previous weeks, investors focused this week on the Federal Reserve's decision Wednesday to lower interest rates and on reports on the nation's gross domestic product, personal spending and factory orders.
 The Fed's decision to lower rates by a quarter-point, to 2 percent, and widespread speculation that it would stand pat at future meetings buoyed investors' confidence. The Fed's comments helped shore up an anemic dollar and calmed some fears about inflation.
 On Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average closed up 48.20, or 0.37 percent, at 13,058.20, after being up more than 100 points early in the session. Until this week, the last time the Dow closed above 13,000 was on Jan. 3.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.56, or 0.32 percent, to 1,413.90, while the Nasdaq slipped 3.72, or 0.15 percent, to 2,476.99.
 For the week, the Dow gained 1.29 percent, while the S.& P. 500 added 1.15 percent and the Nasdaq rose 2.23 percent. It was the third consecutive weekly advance for the Dow and the S.& P.
 Richard Sparks, a senior equity analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research, noted that on Thursday and Friday the S.& P. 500 closed over the 1,400 mark for the first times since January.
 ''If we're able to continue above it, or if the S.& P. 500 is able to hold onto that level, that's going to be a big positive for the market,'' he said.
 Bond prices declined Friday as some investors moved into stocks from the safety of government debt. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 23/32, to 97 4/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.86 percent, from 3.76 percent.
 Light crude rose $3.80, to settle at $116.32 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Recent months have brought spikes in food and energy costs that have put financial strain on many consumers. Wall Street is concerned that rising prices and a weak housing market will force consumers, who account for about 70 percent of American economic activity, to curtail spending.
 But when oil prices pulled back sharply Thursday, stocks took off, and they continued their run into Friday's session before the rally stalled. 
 The Labor Department's report that employers cut 20,000 jobs in April was a relief to Wall Street, which had been expecting payrolls to fall by 75,000 jobs. While it was the fourth month in a row of job losses, the data signaled that the economy might be resisting falling into recession.
 Sun Microsystems fell $3.69, or 23 percent, to $12.64 after the company stunned investors late Thursday by reporting a loss for the third quarter. The company, which makes servers and software, attributed its loss to sagging sales to American companies that make consumer products. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Graph showing the Dow Jones industrial average for yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%)

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); CANACCORD GENUITY INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



72 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Fading Sounds of an Elegant Manhattan

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
For the last 14 years, some of the most welcoming sounds in Midtown Manhattan have been the voice and piano of Daryl Sherman, heard as you enter the Waldorf-Astoria hotel at Park Avenue and 49th Street. As you ascend the green carpeted stairs to the lobby, her music invites you into a world of elegance where the spirit of Cole Porter, a longtime resident of the Waldorf, still hovers.
 As of Sunday evening, those sounds will be stilled. A few weeks ago, Ms. Sherman received word that for economic reasons her tenure at the cocktail terrace between the Empire and Hilton Rooms would end. Saturday and Sunday's performances are four-hour laps, from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. 
 Last year, the Hilton hotel chain, which owns the Waldorf-Astoria, was sold to the Blackstone Group of investors. Such sales almost always entail streamlining the operations and cutting back expenses. 
 Ms. Sherman is one the very last and finest of a vanishing breed of singer-pianists who used to hold forth in the lobbies of luxury hotels in Manhattan. At the end of last year, the Cafe Pierre in the Pierre hotel was closed for renovation, ending the two-decade engagement of its longtime musical fixture, Kathleen Landis. The Waldorf still has live piano music in Peacock Alley on the way to the hotel's Lexington Avenue entrance, but that serves as ambient background tinkling. 
 Ms. Sherman, an effervescent 50-something woman, makes music suited to the foreground as well the background. The piano she has played is not any old keyboard but Cole Porter's piano, a brown, hand-painted midsize Steinway grand adorned with decorative scrolls and courtly, bewigged dancing figures. 
 Constructed in 1907, it was presented by the hotel in 1945 to Porter, who had already lived there for six years; it was moved to the lobby after his death in 1964. It is an impressive instrument, especially in the lower register, whose resonance Ms. Sherman sometimes demonstrates to patrons sipping tea (there is a full tea service in the afternoon) or cocktails. 
 If you spent enough hours on the terrace listening to her play, sing, and spin anecdotes from her storehouse of musical lore, sooner or later you might absorb most of the history of American popular song. 
 Introducing Porter's perennially requested ''Night and Day'' early Friday evening, she remarked, ''This is not me playing -- this is Cole Porter's spirit playing by Ouija board.'' After finishing the instrumental introduction, she sang the rest of the song, then smiled and said, ''That was me, just so you'll know.'' 
 Songs from the Porter musicals ''The New Yorkers'' and ''Jubilee'' followed, as well as her own song, ''Welcome to Manhattan,'' which she described as ''a contemporary song that sounds like a 30s song,'' and it does. ''The 30s are my decade -- Depression,'' she joked. 
 A jazz baby who plays a buoyant stride piano, Ms. Sherman grew up in Woonsocket, R.I., the daughter of the jazz trombonist Sammy Sherman, who took her to jam sessions as a child. In 1974, three years after graduating from the University of Rhode Island, she moved to New York and began performing in Manhattan jazz clubs, both as a soloist and in small ensembles. She has many distinguished jazz mentors, most notably the trumpet player Dick Sudhalter, who introduced her to the classics of the Bing Crosby-Paul Whiteman era. 
 The sunny, steadily swinging style of Mildred Bailey is a particularly strong influence. Her 1999 album, ''Celebrating Mildred Bailey and Red Norvo'' (Audiophile) pays her homage, and Ms. Sherman hopes someday to honor Ms. Bailey in a one-woman music-theater piece. Ms. Sherman's newest album, ''New Orleans'' (Audiophile), is her response to Hurricane Katrina.
 Vocally, Ms. Sherman is frequently compared to Blossom Dearie, who has a similarly light touch and sly playfulness, but Ms. Sherman's voice is fuller with a sweet twirling vibrato. If her singing evokes pleasure and playfulness, it isn't all sunshine and flowers. Her rendition of a song associated with Ms. Bailey, the Carl Sigman-Duke Ellington ballad ''All Too Soon,'' was sultry and wistful Friday. 
 Some of the best advice about singing she ever received, she recalled, was from the great jazz interpreter Sylvia Syms, who died in 1992: ''Stop listening to the sound of your own voice and find the crux of the song and work back from that.''
 Ms. Sherman has a chin-up attitude about the future. ''I've been very lucky,'' she emphasized, ''and I'm grateful for the last 14 years.'' Then she giggled. ''Now all I have to do is find a rich man to buy the hotel and pay for a facelift when I really need it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A plaque notes that the piano belonged to Cole Porter, a hotel resident for 25 years
A longtime listener, Stanley Brezenoff, takes his fill on Daryl Sherman's last Friday night at the Waldorf-Astoria lobby. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B4)
 Daryl Sherman in the lobby of the Waldorf-Astoria, at the keyboard of a Steinway the hotel presented to Cole Porter in 1945, while he was living there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (56%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



73 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Fed Moves To Loosen Tight Credit

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve announced new steps on Friday to help ease tight global credit markets by increasing the size of its cash auctions to banks and allowing financial institutions to put up credit card debt, student loans and car loans as collateral for Fed loans. 
 The Fed also acted in coordination with central banks in Europe to make it easier for European banks to obtain dollars in currency swaps.
 In a terse statement Friday morning, announced just before the government reported that 20,000 jobs were lost in April, the Fed said that it was acting to counter ''persistent liquidity pressures'' in credit markets in Europe and the United States.
 The Fed's action came as some analysts are saying that a measure of stability has returned to American financial markets after months of turbulence. Nevertheless, the Fed has made clear that it remains concerned about the risk from credit markets seizing up because of losses from bad loans, particularly in the housing sector.
 Two days ago, the Fed signaled its continuing concern about the economy, lowering short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point, to 2 percent, from 2.25 percent, while signaling that it would not be lowering rates again for a while.
 The actions Friday involved two lending facilities set up recently by the Fed to meet the needs of banks, investment banks and other financial institutions hit by the credit crisis after a series of disclosures about the shakiness of their packages of subprime mortgages.
 One of these new entities, the Term Securities Lending Facility, can lend up to $200 billion to 20 different banks and investment banks known as primary dealers. Until now, the primary dealers could put up mortgage-backed securities as collateral for these Fed loans.
 The Fed's action allows them to expand the type of collateral that can be pledged to include student loans, car loans, home equity loans and credit card debt, as long as it is highly rated. 
 In general, dealers have had difficulty obtaining loans with such collateral because such debt cannot be bought and sold in current market conditions, and lenders fear its value is nearly worthless. However, the Fed maintains that the collateral it is now willing to accept will be sound and assessed at a realistic value.
 The expansion of the definition of collateral was authorized by the Federal Open Market Committee, the policy-making arm of the Federal Reserve, which met Tuesday and Wednesday.
 In a separate step, the Fed expanded the amount of credit that can be given to banks through the Term Auction Facility, which conducts biweekly auctions of $50 billion in 28-day loans. On Friday, the Fed authorized $75 billion for each auction, bringing the total outstanding loans at any given time to $150 billion.
 The Fed acted in coordination with the European Central Bank and the Swiss National Bank to increase its existing reciprocal currency arrangement under which they can obtain dollars in return for pledges of European currencies. 
 The Fed moved because European banks are themselves holders of dollar loans in the mortgage sector and need dollars to meet those loan obligations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (60%)

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



74 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 761 words

PERSON: William Frankel 

HEADLINE: William Frankel, 91; Edited Jewish Chronicle

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
William Frankel, who reinvigorated the venerable London-based newspaper The Jewish Chronicle as its editor for two decades, broadening its coverage of world affairs to include the Vietnam War and the American civil rights movement, died on April 18 in Washington, where he had a home. He was 91.
 The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage after a fall, his family said. 
 Mr. Frankel became general manager of The Chronicle in 1955 and editor three years later, beginning what many view as the most celebrated editorship in the history of the publication, which was founded in 1841 and describes itself as the world's oldest continuously published Jewish newspaper.
 The newspaper he inherited, a weekly, had grown formulaic and turgid by the 1950s -- ''hardly more than a parish magazine with attitude,'' as The Times of London said in its obituary of Mr. Frankel. Its hallmarks were an unwavering loyalty to the twin pillars of the Anglo-Jewish establishment, the United Synagogue and the chief rabbinate; a heavy emphasis on Israel; and a taste for photos of smiling dignitaries with community prizewinners.
 Mr. Frankel set about overhauling the paper. The new editor, tall and distinguished-looking and known for a sardonic wit, hired a fresh generation of young, anti-establishment reporters and sent them to cover stories around the world, whether in Southeast Asia or the American South. He also expanded coverage of the arts. Sagging circulation soon improved, and The Chronicle began attracting the attention of Britain's mainstream newspapers.
 But what characterized the Frankel stewardship as much as anything was his break with those he called ''the beards'' -- leading rabbis whom he saw as exponents of an intolerant ultra-Orthodoxy. Departing in many ways from the Orthodox convictions of his youth, he became increasingly critical after 1967 of Israel's policies in the West Bank and Gaza and challenged the powerful Board of Deputies of British Jews, calling it ''obsolete machinery.'' 
 In a dispute that was publicized on both sides of the Atlantic, he decided in 1961 to challenge the Orthodox establishment over the case of Louis Jacobs, a prominent rabbi who had resigned from Jews' College, the country's leading Jewish seminary, after the chief rabbi, Israel Brodie, refused to honor what Rabbi Jacobs described as an unwritten agreement to appoint him principal. Rabbi Jacobs had challenged the Orthodox view that the Torah was dictated by God to Moses on Mount Sinai.
 Mr. Frankel wrote in 2004 that he saw the struggle as one ''for the soul of Anglo-Jewry, between those advocating a free spirit of inquiry, as reinforcement to faith and tradition, and those who shunned reason out of blinkered, die-hard fundamentalism,'' The Chronicle reported last year, quoting his preface to a book by Rabbi Jacobs.
 Born on Feb. 3 1917, William Frankel was one of three sons of Isaac Frankel, an Orthodox immigrant from an impoverished shtetl in the Polish region of Galicia who ran a stall after World War I in the bustling clothing market of Petticoat Lane in the East End of London.
 Judged unfit for military service in World War II, Mr. Frankel was among thousands evacuated from London to escape German bombing. He gained a law degree from the London School of Economics when it was relocated in Cambridge. One of his first jobs was as general secretary of the Mizrachi Organization of Great Britain and Ireland, an influential religious Zionist organization. He practiced law for 10 years before joining The Chronicle.
 He stepped down as editor in 1977 before becoming a director and later chairman of the paper's controlling trust. He left the paper in 1994. 
 Mr. Frankel married Gertrude Reed in 1939. After they divorced, he married an American, Claire Neuman, in 1973. In recent years they divided their time between homes in London and Washington.
 Mr. Frankel is survived by Ms. Neuman; a son, John, from his first marriage; and three stepdaughters. A daughter from his first marriage, Anne, died earlier.
 Mr. Frankel developed strong ties in the United States and had friends in the political and intellectual elites there. He wrote about his American experiences in a 2006 book, ''Tea With Einstein and Other Memories,'' recalling in one instance a meeting with Einstein at Princeton in 1947. 
 ''Almost immediately the door was opened by a stocky man wearing a sweater, baggy slacks, slippers over his bare feet and an unruly halo of white hair,'' he wrote.
 ''He later told me that he never wore socks; they were 'useless garments.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William Frankel, shown in an undated photograph.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RIFKIN/JEWISH CHRONICLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); ASIA (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



75 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: 20,000 JOBS LOST AS U.S. REGISTERS 4TH MONTHLY DIP

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; David Leonhardt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The American economy lost 20,000 jobs in April, the fourth consecutive month of decline, in what many economists took as powerful evidence that the United States is almost certainly now ensnared in a recession. 
 But the number of jobs reported lost by the Labor Department on Friday was significantly smaller than most analysts had predicted, and the unemployment rate nudged down to 5 percent, raising hopes that the economy may not suffer as severely as once feared.
 ''It strongly argues that this downturn will be mild and short- lived,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''As long as businesses hold the line on their layoffs, the economy will weaken, but it won't unravel.''
 On Wall Street, investors bought into that thinking, bidding stocks up sharply in morning trading before pulling back in the afternoon, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average up 0.4 percent for the day, to close at 13,058.40, a new high for 2008. 
 But economists emphasized that a substantial pullback in consumer spending could yet force American companies to lay off hundreds of thousands of workers in coming months if business prospects do not improve swiftly.
 The Federal Reserve increased its direct lending to financial institutions on Friday, in an effort to overcome the banks' reluctance to lend money.
 Despite the comparatively modest number of jobs lost last month, economists found clear signs of widening distress for millions of American workers. 
 Companies are cutting working hours, even as many avoid layoffs. The number of people working part time because of slack business or because they could not find full-time work swelled to 5.2 million in April from 4.9 million in March. In percentage terms, employees working part time involuntarily were the most since 1995.
 The average weekly pay for rank-and-file workers -- about 80 percent of the American work force -- has risen by a mere 3 percent over the last year, to $602.56. But that increase has failed to keep pace with the rise in the cost of living, driven primarily by the soaring costs of food and energy. In inflation-adjusted terms, these weekly wages have slipped by 1.3 percent since late 2006. 
 ''The punch line is that you don't have to lose your job to get pinched in a recession,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''Understandably we focus on layoffs and job losses, but most people keep their jobs in a recession. People who held their jobs are losing ground both in terms of hours and hourly wages.''
 The number of people on non-farm payrolls was lower in April than six months earlier. Over the last half-century, every time employment has dipped in such fashion, the economy has proved to be either in a recession or just emerging from one. 
 A private research organization, the National Bureau of Economic Research, determines whether a downturn qualifies as a recession, which it defines as a ''significant decline in economic activity spread across the economy, lasting more than a few months.'' 
 Several economists predicted the organization would eventually conclude that the nation entered a recession late last year or early this year, though the Commerce Department has reported overall economic activity has remained slightly positive.
 ''It's kind of tough when you've got to tell your family that a lot of things are going to change and the things we're used to are basically going to stop,'' said Howard Dempsey, a worker at a Freightliner truck factory in Cleveland, N.C., who recently learned that he would lose his job next month, along with 1,500 other people -- nearly half the work force. 
 ''It's hard to understand how all this happened so fast, when one day we're building 200 trucks a day and the next day we're down to 100,'' he said.
 Mr. Dempsey has worked at the plant for almost a decade and is paid $22.30 an hour, plus health insurance and other benefits. Those wages allowed him to buy a house, and plan for college for his two teenage daughters, both well-accustomed to shopping as a pastime.
 ''Now it's going to be window- shopping,'' Mr. Dempsey said. ''We've got to rethink college and see how we're going to pay for that.'' 
 The layoffs at the Freightliner plant illustrate how troubles that began in real estate have filtered through the economy. As commerce has slowed in recent months, so has growth in over-the-road shipping, and so have orders for trucks.
 ''Tragically, there's no indication from our primary customers that there's going to be a change in their demand in the foreseeable future,'' said Chris Patterson, president and chief executive of Daimler Trucks North America, which owns the Freightliner plant. 
 With oil prices above $115 a barrel, any business connected to fuel consumption is increasingly vulnerable. This week, in Central Point, Ore., Erickson Air-Crane, which makes helicopters for commercial use, laid off 35 production and support workers, with wages ranging from $12.75 to $38.19 an hour.
 Over all, 46,000 manufacturing workers were laid off last month, and 326,000 such positions have been lost over the last year, the Labor Department reported. Construction remained the focus of contraction, losing 61,000 jobs. Retailers eliminated 26,800 jobs.
 Health care continued to be a rare bright spot, adding nearly 37,000 jobs. Restaurants and bars added 18,000 jobs. Professional and business services, which includes accountants, architects and management consultants, added 39,000 jobs.
 The unemployment rate, a source of some reassurance, is a flawed gauge: It is based on a survey of households and includes self-employed people, but it does not count people who have given up looking for work. These so-called discouraged workers swelled to 412,000 in April from 399,000 a year earlier. 
 In total, the household survey offered a counterpoint to the rest of the report, finding a net increase of 362,000 people employed in April.
 Economists cautioned that the household survey is notoriously volatile from month to month. Over the last year, it has shown significant declines in those working. The relatively small number of job losses in April may support a theory that the current downturn will bring relatively few layoffs because hiring in recent years has been weak, leaving many companies lean.
 ''Companies are finding ways to cut their costs other than cutting lots of workers,'' said Ed McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs. 
 In Columbus, Neb., orders at Behlen Manufacturing Company for its pre-engineered metal buildings have slowed. So far, the company, which employs 1,100 people, has avoided layoffs, Tony Raimondo, the chairman, said.
 Behlen plans to build up inventory and perhaps shift workers into busier areas, like building grain silos, while waiting for better days, he said. But if trends continue, about 50 workers would be vulnerable.
 ''We're on the bubble,'' Mr. Raimondo said. ''The odds are against us that we will get through the summer without layoffs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People waited in line at a job fair in New York last month, as the economy lost 20,000 positions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A16) CHARTS: THE LABOR PICTURE IN APRIL (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. A16) Chart showing the unemployment rates for April. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); STOCK INDEXES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



76 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Don't Rush to Praise Sugar-Cane Biofuels

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Bring On the Right Biofuels,'' by Roger Cohen (column, The New York Times on the Web, April 24): 
 Biofuels contribute to deforestation and global warming regardless of which plant matter is used to make the fuel. 
 Even if ethanol is made from sugar cane and that sugar cane is grown miles away from the Amazon rain forest, the resulting shifts in where other crops are grown will lead to deforestation. 
 Furthermore, when previously uncultivated land, including tropical forests, is brought into cultivation, large amounts of carbon are released from the soil, worsening the carbon dioxide balance. 
 Municipal solid waste is about the only biofuel source that does not exhibit this problem. Other than municipal waste, biofuels are an environmental disaster. 
 John K. Horowitz College Park, Md., April 24, 2008
 The writer is an associate professor of agricultural and resource economics at the University of Maryland.
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen notes correctly that sugar cane is not grown in the Amazon. But we disagree with his assertion that ''Brazilian sugar-based ethanol'' is ''environmentally friendly.''
 Recent studies have confirmed intuition: If you shift a plot of farmland from food production to fuel production, the market will grow the food somewhere else. Increasingly, the required ''make up'' food is grown on what used to be grazing land, and ranchers, in turn, are clearing tropical forests to make room for their livestock. 
 The process has dire consequences for climate, because forests like the Amazon serve as essential carbon sinks as long as they are left intact. 
 Energy-crop farmers in Brazil are displacing other farmers from conventional farmland, and some of that displaced agriculture is winding up in the Amazon. 
 Moreover, because the food market is highly globalized, tropical forests and climate stability are similarly threatened when farmers in the United States and Europe divert their harvests from the food market to the fuel market. 
 Lester Brown Jonathan Lewis Washington, April 24, 2008
 The writers are, respectively, president of the Earth Policy Institute in Washington and staff attorney and climate program coordinator of the Clean Air Task Force in Boston.
 To the Editor:
 When discussing biofuels and the production of sugar cane in Brazil, there is a human cost to consider.
 While most Brazilian employers respect workers' rights, Brazil is a very large country. In some of the more distant corners, pressure to maximize profits has sometimes led to situations of degrading and slave labor. 
 Sugar cane has not been immune: of the 5,877 workers freed in 2007 from conditions analogous to slave labor in Brazil, 2,947 had been sugar-cane cutters.
 The connection between slave or degrading labor and increased ethanol-linked demand for sugar cane has not gone unnoticed by Brazilian watchdog agencies. The Brazilian daily Folha de Sao Paulo reported in 2007 that Sao Paulo sugar-cane cutters had slightly longer productive work lives in the decade before Brazil's 1888 abolition of slavery than do modern sugar-cane cutters.
 Sugar cane has a long and often cruel history in Brazil. 
 Richard Hoffman Recife, Brazil, April 26, 2008
 The writer is Brazil country representative, Catholic Relief Services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (96%); DEFORESTATION (91%); BIOMASS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); SLAVERY (84%); WRITERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); SUGAR MFG (76%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); AGRICULTURE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); EARTH (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



77 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COST OF LIVING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Listen To Your Statement

BYLINE: By M. P. DUNLEAVEY

 BODY:
PEOPLE loathe keeping track of expenses, and I am no exception. Few chores manage to combine anxiety and tedium in such high doses. 
 But given all the disturbing news about the economy, I have found myself needing reassurance that our cash is flowing in and out more or less as usual. So I decided to take some of my own advice and read our household checking account statement over my morning coffee. 
 The standard personal finance guidance would be to monitor one's spending over a longer period of time, preferably by keeping a detailed money diary or using financial software. I have found that spending 10 to 15 minutes reviewing the bill payments, checks, debit charges and other transactions in a single month -- in this case, our March-April statement -- can be just as valuable. 
 It's also a nifty way to ruin your morning, as I realized upon seeing that we were being charged twice for out-of-network A.T.M. withdrawals: once by the bank that operates the A.T.M. (usually about $2), and again by our own bank (a scandalizing $3). 
 ''We can only use our bank's A.T.M.'s,'' I exclaimed to my husband, waving the bank statement wildly. I was lucky he didn't pour coffee on my head.
 We try not to use other banks' machines, but because we live in a small town, far from our own bank's branches, sometimes it's necessary. Still, the charges were embarrassing. I had just read that in 2007 Americans spent about $4.2 billion in A.T.M. fees, according to a report by Bankrate.com -- and I'd shaken my head at the folly. We only ended up paying $10 for two withdrawals, but $10 is nearly three gallons of gas. 
 Last year it cost about $150 to fill up our tank each month. Given that gas prices are about 25 percent higher now than they were a year ago, lately I had estimated that we were paying close to $200 per month. 
 Try $256. That's what my foray through our bank statement showed. I was shocked. I don't know if the truth sets you free, but staring your finances in the face, as opposed to devising convenient estimates in your head, is as vital to your financial health as checking your cholesterol is to your physical health. 
 Bad eating habits and bad money habits have a nasty way of building up if you're not paying attention. That's especially true right now, with the economy in a mess. 
 It's tempting to believe that if you've managed to skirt major fallout from the credit crisis and the sagging real estate and job markets, you're not any worse off than you were a year ago. I have been putting my hands over my eyes and hoping that's true. My tattle-tale bank statement says otherwise. 
 A year ago this time, we paid about $400 a month for groceries. The tally for this April was $587. During the same period last year we spent about $140 on miscellaneous household items and sundries; this year we spent $346. 
 IT'S possible that if we averaged out our expenses over a longer period, perhaps the increase in our expenses wouldn't seem so dramatic. Nonetheless, they are higher than last year, and our net income is not. Given that my husband and I are both freelancers -- I'm full-time, he's part-time -- is the answer to take on more work? Spend less? A little of both?
 Numerous articles have indicated that the economic growth in recent years was a rising tide that lifted only a few boats. Still, it's a bit scary to dissect your own financial situation and realize that your money, really, only goes so far. 
 Some close friends of ours came over for dinner the other night. They are retired and living on a very modest fixed income. A year ago, we were feeling relatively flush and secure, and so avoided talking about any financial topics that might have emphasized any disparity between us. 
 Now we found ourselves commiserating with our friends about rising food costs, ways to cut back on driving, speculating about how life might change as gas prices continue to rise. It's a gritty pill to swallow, but if my bank account statement is right, the answer is to obey the numbers and try to live within them, an idea so old it's new again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); BANK BRANCHES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



78 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1624 words

HEADLINE: On the Air To Take On An Institution

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Just before 6 a.m. on Tuesday, in a spacious but dilapidated studio belonging to WNYC in New York, a veteran public radio broadcaster named John Hockenberry put down his pages of notes, raised two fists to the sky, and shouted something that only he and his co-host, Adaora Udoji, could hear.
 It was a gesture that suggested triumph and energy, nervousness and impatience, all at once. Then the ''On Air'' button turned red, and Mr. Hockenberry, whose new public radio show is called ''The Takeaway,'' began speaking into his microphone, talking to listeners at the 15 public radio stations that have so far agreed to carry the show. 
 ''And on this Tuesday morning,'' he said, ''I'm just a guy in a radio studio. It's a Grand Theft Auto world, and we just live in it.'' 
 Well, O.K., his opening was a little lame; the reference to Grand Theft Auto had to do with the fact that the latest version of the game was just released, and the hosts and a guest would be discussing it later in the show. But let's cut Mr. Hockenberry some slack. They've still got a lot of kinks to work out at ''The Takeaway,'' which is being co-produced by WNYC and Public Radio International, in association with the BBC, WGBH, and (full disclosure) The New York Times. Tuesday was only the show's second day on the air.
 For now, ''The Takeaway'' is running live from 6 to 7 a.m., with a second hour, from 8 to 9, that repeats some of the original pieces while adding new, live segments. In June, though, when WNYC moves into new studios, the show will expand to four hours, two of them completely live. Which means that Mr. Hockenberry and Ms. Udoji will be on the air for most of the same time as the mother of all public radio shows, mighty ''Morning Edition.''
 ''Morning Edition'' is National Public Radio's crown jewel. Nearing its 30th birthday, it draws 12.9 million listeners weekly, making it the third-highest-rated radio show in the country. (Rush Limbaugh's is No. 1, in case you were wondering.) The show, which starts at 5 a.m. on the East Coast, goes for seven hours, with five of them essentially repeats of the first two with live news updates. There are public radio stations that run as much as six hours of ''Morning Edition.'' ''It is an unbelievably strong program,'' said Ellen Weiss, NPR's vice president for news. Who can disagree?
 In fact, it's fair to say that public radio relies on ''Morning Edition'' for its economic health. During fund drives, public radio stations -- WNYC very much included -- raise more money during ''Morning Edition'' than any other time of the day. There are studies showing that ''Morning Edition'' devotees listen to more public radio, and give more money, than those who don't make it part of their daily routine. 
 National Public Radio, meanwhile, reaps $65 million a year in fees from its member stations, more than a third of its total revenue. It, too, has a lot riding on the continued success of ''Morning Edition.'' (Disclosure No. 2: I've had a relationship with NPR for 13 years, serving as a semi-regular business commentator on ''Weekend Edition Saturday.'')
 So why would a local public radio station -- even a powerhouse like WNYC, with its $38 million annual budget, and its history of producing shows for both local audiences (''Brian Lehrer'') and national ones (''On the Media'') -- want to take on ''Morning Edition''? ''It is a nervy move,'' said Bill Kling, the head of American Public Media, the nonprofit parent of Minnesota Public Radio. It's also an expensive one. The annual budget of ''The Takeaway'' is $7 million, and Mr. Kling says that it takes at least two years, and probably more, for a new public radio show to gain ''significant traction.''
 When you talk to people in the public radio world, they play down the idea that ''The Takeaway'' is intended to someday replace ''Morning Edition.'' ''What they are responding to is that, in many markets, ''Morning Edition'' runs for four hours or more. If they can pick off a few of those hours, they'll have something,'' said Ira Glass, the host of ''This American Life.''
 Laura R. Walker, the president and chief executive of WNYC, also encouraged me to view ''The Takeaway'' as complementary to ''Morning Edition.'' ''We are trying to add choice,'' she said. 
 Yet in the next breath, she complained about ''Morning Edition's'' ''tonality,'' and its three-decade-old format. After doubling its audience size in the 1990s, public radio listenership had been essentially flat since 2003. Young listeners aren't tuning in. Public radio has been slow to adapt to the digital world. And so on.
 What she hopes ''The Takeaway'' might do is reverse some of those trends. It is an attempt to create a more conversational kind of radio, she said, radio that is more adaptive and spontaneous and innovative than ''Morning Edition'' -- and more interactive. Both Mr. Hockenberry and Ms. Udoji had computers in front of their mikes, and solicited e-mail from listeners that they read during the show. (Not surprisingly, Ms. Weiss takes umbrage at the idea that ''Morning Edition'' has become static.) The more I listened to Ms. Walker, though, the more I thought: if this show isn't meant to be head-to-head competition with ''Morning Edition,'' it sure is one heck of a shot across the bow.
 There are over 860 public radio stations in the United States, and every last one of them has a love-hate relationship with NPR. The network provides them with their signature shows -- not just ''Morning Edition,'' but ''All Things Considered,'' ''Fresh Air,'' ''Car Talk'' and others -- but it also has a fee structure that many stations feel is onerous. (WNYC pays $3 million a year to NPR, which is less than 10 percent of its budget, but at WFCR in Amherst, Mass., the $500,000 it pays to NPR constitutes nearly 20 percent of its budget.) 
 When the network fired the popular host Bob Edwards in 2004, it was the stations that took the economic hit, as listeners protested by withholding their contributions. Many stations feel they have lost their identity to NPR. And many also fear that as more shows become available digitally, the member stations will lose their roles as primary distributors of NPR programs -- which, in turn, will damage their ability to fund-raise.
 For small and medium-size stations, with their limited resources, there isn't much they can do about any of this, except hope that NPR will look after them. (For instance, the main reason you can't stream the key NPR shows on the Web until they've finished running on the West Coast is because the network wants to protect the member stations.) But big stations like WBEZ in Chicago, WBUR in Boston and WNYC in New York have in recent years made a point of trying to create identities independent of NPR. They've done so in part by creating their own programming, hiring first-rate local reporters and building smart Web sites. Their hope is that as the Internet becomes a more serious distribution channel for NPR programs -- as must surely happen, just as it has with television and newspapers -- they'll be able to survive.
 ''Long term, nobody needs a terrestrial radio station,'' said Larry Keeley, a board member at Chicago Public Radio. ''And long term, there is every reason to believe that human beings will get all the news they want, tailored to their interests, offered up in convenient ways.'' He added, ''NPR sees this.'' But as NPR tries to adapt to this more personalized, more interactive world, it seems inevitable it will create a direct relationship with the listeners, and cut out the middleman -- the member stations.
 So far, that hasn't really happened. So much of public radio's money comes from member station fund drives that everyone is hesitant to do anything that might damage that business model. But let's face it: newspapers have been unable to stop readers from moving to the Internet -- even though that eliminates circulation as a revenue source and lowers advertising revenue. And television has had to put more shows on iTunes and the Internet. Surely, radio is not going to be the only medium to be exempt from the disintermediation force of the Internet.
 In Chicago, WBEZ has helped create its own identity by co-producing such shows as ''This American Life,'' and turning Mr. Glass into a celebrity. In Boston, WBUR helped gin up ''Car Talk.'' And in New York, WNYC now has, among its battery of shows, ''The Takeaway.''
 ''There is a tectonic shift with the coming of digital,'' Ms. Walker said. ''And we haven't taken advantage of the Web-radio connection very well.'' She hopes ''The Takeaway'' will change that. ''We define ourselves as a multiplatform content provider,'' she added -- just like newspapers and TV networks.
 ''The Takeaway'' has a long way to go. In its first week on the air, it was sometimes hard to understand the rationale for the stories the show chose to highlight. And the interaction between the hosts could seem jarring and even off-putting at times. But WNYC has too much at stake to let the show fail; I'm guessing six months from now, ''The Takeaway'' will feel much smoother and more comfortable on the ears. If it becomes a hit, it will indeed serve as an important buffer for the day when ''Morning Edition'' gravitates to the Internet, or loses some of its luster, or becomes a less potent fund-raising force. 
 ''It is conventional wisdom that you don't create a new show for morning drive time,'' Ms. Walker said -- not when NPR has ''Morning Edition.'' ''But we said, 'Why not?' '' 
 Why not indeed. If you're in the radio business, that's how you protect yourself from irrelevancy -- and an overreliance on NPR, the network that, for now at least, you still can't live without. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Hockenberry and Adaora Udoji, hosts of ''The Takeaway,'' in the Manhattan studio of the public radio station WNYC. The show is seen as an alternative to ''Morning Edition'' on NPR. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (92%); PUBLIC RADIO (92%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (78%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (52%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



79 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2228 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 VIRUS IN CHINA KILLS 22 CHILDREN
 And Sickens Thousands
 A fast-spreading viral outbreak in China has killed 22 children, sickened nearly 3,600 others and caused panic among parents in an impoverished corner of Anhui Province, government health officials said. All of the fatalities, from lung problems and other complications, have been in children younger than 6, with most of them under 2. PAGE A6
 MOSQUE IN YEMEN IS BOMBED
 A bomb rigged to a motorcycle detonated outside a mosque in northern Yemen, killing at least 12 worshipers, wounding dozens and threatening to rekindle an intermittent war between northern rebels and government forces. It appeared to be the first time civilians had been direct targets in the conflict. PAGE A9 
 NEW APPROACH ON IRAN: CARROT
 The world's major powers agreed in London to offer Iran modest incentives intended to coax it to freeze important nuclear activities. The gesture underscores a growing consensus that sanctions on Iran have not worked, but it also relies on asking Iran to do what it has consistently refused to do: suspend its production of enriched uranium. PAGE A9
 TIBETAN ENVOYS TO TALK WITH CHINA
 The Tibetan government in exile in India said that two envoys were on their way to an undisclosed location in China for ''informal'' discussions with the Chinese government. But the announcement signaled low expectations, and it is unclear whether the talks could yield anything substantial when accusations continue to be lobbed by each side. PAGE A7
 ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER QUESTIONED
 The prime minister of Israel, Ehud Olmert, was questioned by police investigators in connection with what appeared to be a new criminal inquiry. No details were revealed. Three other criminal investigations involving Mr. Olmert are already under way, all relating to matters before he became prime minister. PAGE A8
 Serbia's 'Undertaker' A9 
 NATIONAL
 GROUPS SUE TO GET RULES
 For Convention Demonstrations
 A federal lawsuit charges that the Secret Service and the City of Denver are threatening the rights of protesters at the Democrat National Convention in August -- by not yet having any rules for them. The delay makes it difficult to plan for parades and demonstrations, the suit says. The Secret Service declined to comment, and the city said it would ''respond as necessary.'' PAGE A11
 RECYCLING GAS PRICE SOLUTIONS
 To lower gasoline prices, President Bush has again called for oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and expanding nuclear power. Congressional Democrats are looking to a bill first introduced in 2000. Fresher ideas are in short supply. PAGE A16
 A SLOW, ROUGH, DIFFICULT TIME
 No president wants to acknowledge a recession on his watch, and President Bush has been inventive in avoiding the term, preferring ''downturn,'' ''slowdown,'' ''rough patch'' and ''very difficult times.'' But he walks a fine line between acknowledging economic problems and reconciling the numbers. PAGE A16
 CLAIMING HAWAII FOR HAWAIIANS
 The little-known Hawaiian Kingdom Government believes it has the right to take back from the government more than one million acres in the Hawaiian Islands it says were illegally seized in the overthrow of the Hawaiian monarchy in 1893. And so this week it did, laying claim to the Iolani Palace grounds in downtown Honolulu. PAGE A14
 SORRY ABOUT YOUR HUSBAND, BUT ...
 Nevada says it spent $687,000 trying to find the millionaire adventurer Steve Fossett when he disappeared last fall. So it plans to ask Mr. Fossett's widow for a ''totally voluntary'' contribution of $487,000. The state isn't offering a discount; the other $200,000 has been covered by a donation from William Barron Hilton, from whose Nevada ranch Mr. Fossett departed. PAGE A11
 BUSINESS
 CHALLENGING POPULAR NOTIONS ABOUT THE AGING BRAIN
 Research indicates that old dogs can learn new tricks -- which is to say that research is challenging long-held beliefs by demonstrating that the brain can grow new nerve cells. How to get that growth? Being socially connected and intellectually stimulated seems to help. And so does exercise: physical and mental. PAGE C1
 NEW CREDIT CARD RULES PROPOSED
 Federal bank regulators proposed a new set of rules to make it more difficult for credit card companies to raise rates arbitrarily, conceal high penalty fees or engage in other practices that consumer groups say are abusive. Banking officials say they will fight the proposals, which they say would have the effect of reducing available credit. PAGE C1
 OPTIONS FOR THE MORTGAGE-FREE
 About one-third of homeowners face no trouble making their mortgage payments, because they don't have a mortgage and are, in effect, sitting on pure equity. Banks would love to be of service to them. But deciding whether to take advantage may involve some number crunching. PAGE C1
 NEW YORK REPORT
 AFFAIR WAS REVEALED TO AVOID
 Rogue Police, Governor Says
 Gov. David A. Paterson told a radio program audience that he decided to admit publicly to an extra-marital affair in March because he feared that a rogue unit of the New York State Police would disclose the information to embarrass him. Though he did not offer any evidence of such a plot, Mr. Paterson, a Democrat, has asked the attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, to open an investigation into the matter. PAGE B3
 HOPES FOR PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE
 When deer and people come together, one side usually has guns. But hunting is not an option in Staten Island, so state officials hope that people will learn to coexist with the two dozen or so deer estimated to be calling the island home. PAGE B3
 A Waldorf Run Ends B1
 ARTS
 A TAX BILL PROVISION,
 A Censorship Complaint
 One sentence in a 560-page tax bill in Canada has kicked off a national debate about censorship. Film stars and directors fear that the provision, which would allow a government politician to say whether a production is ''contrary to public policy'' before any public money could go to it, might be abused by the easily offended. PAGE B9
 A DOUBLE REVIVAL
 When the 1960s farce ''Boeing-Boeing'' goes before the audience on Sunday, the actors won't be the only ones having an opening night. The play's home, the Longacre Theater at 220 West 48th Street, has had ''a gut renovation,'' including new ceilings, new seats, new carpets and new restrooms. ''We're competing with a lot of gold leaf here,'' said one cast member. PAGE B1 
 BRIDGING DIFFERENCES
 ''Bridge Over the Wadi,'' a documentary about third graders at a special school for Arab and Jewish children in Israel, has its American television premiere Sunday night on the PBS World channel. ''It's about being human and fighting for the right of the next generation not to be afraid of each other,'' one of the filmmakers said. Reaction to it in Israel was mixed. PAGE B12
 NEW ORLEANS, STARRING THE NEVILLES
 Among the many disruptions caused by Hurricane Katrina was the scattering of the Neville Brothers, perhaps the quintessential New Orleans band, who have not played in their hometown since. Until now, when they return to the music event everybody calls Jazzfest. ''It leaves a hole in our soul when the Nevilles aren't here,'' said Quint Davis, the producer and director. PAGE B1
 Compact Guide to a Master B15
 SPORTS
 THE JOY OF BASKETBALL,
 And Writing About It
 On Monday, Mary Garber will be inducted into the Hall of Fame of the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association. She is 92, a nursing home resident, and still sometimes receives visits from black men who remember her writing about them. ''This is the paragon being honored Monday,'' George Vecsey writes in Sports of The Times, ''not merely some victim of another brand of segregation. She was an entitled person who just happened to like cramming into gyms on Friday night watching boys play basketball.'' PAGE D1
 GOLDEN BOY, WITHOUT EXTRA FEE
 Watching Oscar De La Hoya's eight fights since June 2001 would have cost you around $400 in pay-per-view fees. All total, his fights have generated the boxing record of $626 million in pay-per-view revenue since 1995. But his junior middleweight fight Saturday against the little-known Steve Forbes is free -- if you have HBO. PAGE D2
 OBITUARIES
 WILLIAM FRANKEL, 91
 He reinvigorated the venerable London-based newspaper The Jewish Chronicle as its editor for two decades, broadening its coverage of world affairs to include the Vietnam War and the American civil rights movement. PAGE A17
 JIM HAGER, 66
 One of the Hager Twins, satirized country life with hit-or-miss one-liners on the television series ''Hee Haw.'' He and his brother Jon were also guitarists and drummers. They rose to national fame as original cast members of the television show in 1969. PAGE A17
 JASON SHINDER, 52
 A poet, anthologist and teacher, he founded the Y.M.C.A. National Writer's Voice program, one of the country's largest networks of literary-arts centers. PAGE A17
 this weekend
 SUNDAY STYLES
 A number of online programs allow parents to remotely scrutinize their children's academic performance by monitoring test performance, class attendance -- even day-to-day fluctuations in class ranking. But while the programs can increase parental involvement and serve as an early warning system, they often heighten tension between parents and their teenagers. PAGE 1
 After being name-checked on the official blog for a popular prime time TV show, Jezebel.com, a cliquish, irreverent blog whose authors fancy it an antidote to glossy fashion magazines, saw a big spike in its readership. The site diverges from other blogs run by its parent company, Gawker Media, in another way: wittiness is encouraged, but viciousness is not. PAGE 1
 THE MAGAZINE
 If gang shootings and revenge killings were an infectious disease, how would you stop it? A Chicago epidemiologist thinks he has the answer. PAGE 52
 How the publisher Louise Hay unified psychics, mind-healers, angel therapists and positive thinkers of all varieties into a self-help spirituality empire. PAGE 60
 SUMMER MOVIES
 The movie season looks to be full of heroes, super and otherwise: the Incredible Hulk, Indiana Jones, Speed Racer, Maxwell Smart, Batman, Mulder and Scully among them. But if you're looking for four scene stealers to watch, look elsewhere. (Hint: You probably thought one was a waif.) PAGE 15 
 T MAGAZINE
 Let's face it, if the perfect hangover cure were to exist, the hung over would want it to be some variation of hair of the dog. Like, as some claim it is, a Black Velvet, equal parts Champagne and stout. Is it worth experimenting on the recipe? PAGE 54
 ARTS AND LEISURE
 At a London auction three months ago, a triptych by Frances Bacon sold for $51.6 million, and sales estimates for other auctions are equally optimistic. But the art market is feeling the economic anxiety that is affecting other markets, which means that auction houses are taking more risks to sell their wares, and many wonder how long the big sales numbers will hold up. PAGE 1
 The Roots have defiantly carved out a distinctive niche in hip-hop, eschewing samples for live instrumentation and touring relentlessly. But that independent streak makes them no strangers to label drama, and the band finds itself in danger of not having a record deal following the release of its latest album, ''Rising Down.'' Which, they say, might be a good thing. PAGE 16
 TRAVEL
 Peru's shores boast swells that rival those in Hawaii, making it an ideal spot for surfers but also something of a secret, with prime surfing beaches half-empty. But driven by a favorable exchange rate for bargain-minded Americans and the sudden popularity of surfing there, Peru is poised to become a major destination for waveriders. PAGE 1 
 Athens, all concrete and crowds, used to be an appetizer for travelers headed for the Greek Isles. But the city is trying to recast its image as more than just archaeological sites and nightlife by opening new museums and galleries and some tasty rustic regional cuisine. ''Not a bad warm-up for Mykonos,'' says Joanna Kakissis. PAGE 13
 BOOK REVIEW
 It is enough, for some of us, simply to know that a new book exists containing previously unpublished work by Kurt Vonnegut. For those who need a nudge, Roy Blount Jr. in his review says the book, ''Armageddon in Retrospect,'' contains the strongest writing by Vonnegut he has ever read. Oh, and the work is about Dresden. PAGE 16
 EDITORIAL
 SPINNING IRAQ
 President Bush will never live down ''Mission Accomplished'' -- and should not. PAGE A18
 THE FED AIMS AT CREDIT CARDS
 The banking industry boasts that more than 90 percent of credit card customers have no problems. That still leaves a lot of people swamped by the tricks and traps of the credit card business. PAGE A18
 NEW JERSEY'S TIMID LEGISLATURE
 New Jersey's fiscal mess is not of Gov. Jon Corzine's making, but he's going to have to come up with a plan to fix it. PAGE A18
 OP-ED
 BOB HERBERT
 It's time for the working press to get over its obsession with Barack Obama's pastor and move on. PAGE A19
 GAIL COLLINS
 Straight talk and gas-tax holidays. Just in time for Indiana and North Carolina on Tuesday, how voters might distinguish between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. PAGE A19
 CHARLES BLOW
 Black opinion on Hillary Clinton sours. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); LITIGATION (68%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (53%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); EHUD OLMERT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EAST CHINA (90%); ALASKA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); YEMEN (93%); TIBET (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); ARCTIC (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



80 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Aims at Credit Cards

 BODY:
After growing consumer complaints about hidden fees and other tricks of the credit card trade, the rules proposed by the Federal Reserve on Friday to deal with unfair or deceptive practices are a modest step forward. But the final versions of these rules will probably not go into effect until next year, and the nation's bankers are already mounting a strong opposition to any changes in the rough ways they are allowed to do business. 
 Representative Carolyn Maloney, the New York Democrat who has been pushing the important Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights in Congress, raised the right fears as the Fed proposal was announced. ''These rules may be watered down. They might not be put into effect at all,'' she scoffed. ''The Federal Reserve is not in the Constitution to correct abuses. We are, and there are abusive, abusive, abusive practices going on now.''
 The powerful American Banking Association has already signaled its plans to fight the Fed's rules as a ''regulatory intrusion'' into the market and warned that eventually it could be the consumers who lose because of changes. But consumers are already losing as their interest rates on the cards suddenly skyrocket, fees appear mysteriously on their bills and even the billing cycles get shortened to make it harder to pay on time.
 Congress needs to take up the issue now rather than wait for the Federal Reserve to create rules that can be too easily changed. Representative Maloney already has 110 co-sponsors on her bill in the House, but the measure is stuck in the Financial Services Committee. So far, one Republican on the committee has been brave enough to support her bill -- Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut. Only 11 of 36 Democrats on the committee have come forward to back cardholders' rights.
 Senator Christopher Dodd, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, finally introduced a measure curbing credit card abuse this week. As with the House, the American Bankers Association has sent out a warning to its congressional friends that these bills could create ''unintended consequences'' for consumers. One particularly unfortunate consequence would be if the more docile members of Mr. Dodd's committee manage to keep the Senate bill in storage.
 The banking industry likes to boast that more than 90 percent of credit card customers have no problems with their little plastic friends. Given that there are more than 1 billion credit cards believed to be in use, that leaves a lot of people swamped by what is now called the ''tricks and traps'' of the credit card business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (75%); CAROLYN MALONEY (55%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



81 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Big Powers Agree on New Bid For Iranian Nuclear Freeze

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The world's major powers agreed in London on Friday to offer Iran modest new incentives to coax it to freeze important nuclear activities.
 The agreement was reached at a meeting that brought together Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and senior officials from Britain, France, Russia, China and Germany.
 ''We've got an agreement on an offer that will be made to the government of Iran,'' David Miliband, the British foreign secretary, said for the six governments. 
 The offer underscores a growing consensus that the current policy of punishing Iran into submission with sanctions has failed. 
 Instead of backing down, Iran has steadily increased production of enriched uranium, which can be used both to produce energy and to make bombs. 
 Even more worrisome, Iran has begun to test a new generation of more reliable and faster centrifuges, the machines used in uranium enrichment at its site at Natanz, in central Iran. That step has given new impetus to pursuing a strategy that offers the Iranians economic, political, technological and security rewards.
 Still, there is an inherent problem in this approach: it requires Iran to do what it has consistently refused to do: suspend its production of enriched uranium.
 Iran insists that its uranium enrichment is devoted solely to producing fuel for nuclear reactors that generate electricity. 
 Mr. Miliband said the new offer was part of the group's ''twin-track strategy,'' which included a third set of sanctions against Iran by the Security Council in March. But he reminded Iran that the group had made an offer ''showing the benefits of engagement and cooperation with the international community.''
 The new incentives were described by participants in the meeting as very modest, building on a formal proposal presented to Iran in Tehran in June 2006 by Javier Solana, the European Union foreign policy chief. 
 That proposal, Annex II of resolution 1747, included a promise to support construction of light-water nuclear reactors, the sale of commercial planes to Iran, a conference on regional security issues, a long-term energy agreement between Iran on one side and the European Union and other partners on the other, and economic and trade cooperation. 
 Iran at first welcomed that proposal, but then dismissed it because it would have required the country to suspend its uranium enrichment activities. 
 Those at the meeting on Friday said the new proposal again highlighted the willingness of the big powers to help Iran develop its own modern nuclear energy program by supplying it with light-water reactors to produce electricity, a major concession by Washington, which has resisted moves that could give the impression of rewarding Iran.
 Though they did not provide details, participants said the new proposal added clarity to the 2006 package, including new language on political cooperation with Iran, an elaboration of the idea of an international conference on regional security and stronger cooperation on energy. 
 ''It's more than repackaging,'' one participant said. ''It reaffirms what we already offered, clarifies some points and strengthens others.'' The participants spoke on condition of anonymity under normal diplomatic rules. 
 In his statement, Mr. Miliband said the six officials had dedicated themselves to ''reviewing and updating'' the 2006 proposal, adding that the details of the offer would be disclosed only to Iran. 
 The new offer was, in part, a gesture by the United States and its European partners to Russia and China in exchange for their willingness to go along with the Security Council resolution in March, participants said.
 The two countries have argued for some time that the incentives offered to Iran were insufficient to persuade it to step back from a program that has become a source of national pride, and that further pressure on Iran would only intensify the standoff.
 But there is no agreement by the world powers on whether any gesture can bend the will of Iran, which is flush with oil revenues and has agreed to help resolve with the International Atomic Energy Agency the remaining questions about its suspicious past nuclear activities.
 The United States agreed to review the package as a condition for winning approval for new sanctions in March, but Ms. Rice has said she does not believe that Iran will be interested. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CENTRIFUGES (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (88%); DAVID MILIBAND (58%); JAVIER SOLANA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (88%); IRAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



82 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Overkill and Short Shrift

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The Rev. Jeremiah Wright is no doubt (and regrettably) a big issue in the presidential campaign. But what we've seen over the past week is major media overkill -- Jeremiah Wright all day and all night. It's like watching the clips of a car wreck again and again.
 We've plotted the trend lines of his relationship with Barack Obama over the past two decades. What did Obama know and when did he know it? We've forced Barack and Michelle Obama, two decent, hard-working, law-abiding, family-oriented Americans, to sit for humiliating television interviews, reminiscent of Bill and Hillary Clinton on ''60 Minutes'' at the height of the Gennifer Flowers scandal. 
 We've allowed the entire political process in what is perhaps the most important election in the U.S. since World War II to become thoroughly warped by the histrionics of a loony preacher from the South Side of Chicago.
 There's something wrong with us. 
 Race is like pornography in the United States -- the dirty stories and dirty pictures that everyone professes to hate but no one can resist. But I suspect that even porn addicts get their fill sometimes.
 The challenge for the working press right now is to see if we can force ourselves past the overwhelming temptations of Wright and race and focus in a sustained way on some other important matters, like the cratering economy, metastasizing energy costs, the dismal state of public education, the nation's crumbling infrastructure or the damage being done to the American soul by the endless war in Iraq.
 A highly decorated Army ranger named David McDowell, a 30-year-old father of two from Ramona, Calif., was killed in Afghanistan this week. As I read his obituary, I noticed that he had been deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq seven times. What does that tell us about our shared wartime sacrifices?
 I'd like to hear a lot less about Reverend Wright and a lot more about why the U.S. can't close the deal in Afghanistan and hardly even seems interested in extricating our G.I.'s from Iraq.
 Among the many other important issues overshadowed by the good reverend is a legitimate dispute between the presidential candidates over a proposed gasoline tax holiday, to run through the summer. Hillary Clinton and John McCain favor this dopey, irresponsible proposal, which would save individual motorists a grand total of $28, but which would result in $9 billion in lost tax revenues, much of it targeted for infrastructure needs.
 (Senator Clinton says she would recoup the losses with a windfall profits tax on oil companies. Don't hold your breath.)
 No one with a serious understanding of the nation's energy needs supports this foolishness. Senators Clinton and McCain have been assailed by editorial writers on the left and the right for pandering. Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York City was stinging in his criticism, calling the proposal ''about the dumbest thing'' he'd heard in a long time.
 ''Obama was right on this one, and McCain and Clinton were wrong,'' said Mr. Bloomberg. ''The last thing we need to do is to encourage people to drive more and to take away the monies we need for infrastructure in this country.''
 The point here is that this was a tailor-made opening for the press to push the candidates hard on a phenomenally important question: What should we be doing in the short and long term about U.S. energy requirements?
 Another issue: Economists were exhaling Friday because we only lost 20,000 jobs in April. After all, we lost 81,000 in March. Nevermind that we need to be creating millions of jobs if we're ever going to get our economic house in order. With credit cards maxed out, real estate prices falling and enormous amounts of home equity already drained, a good job is the only legitimate way to put real money into the hands of cash-strapped families.
 Americans are hurting on the jobs front. Those who are employed are working fewer hours and for less pay. Some sectors are crippled by unemployment. There are big-city neighborhoods in which the real jobless rate of young African-Americans is 80 percent or higher.
 Do the candidates have concrete strategies for engaging these problems? Could we hear about them? Explore them? Critique them?
 Are we in the news media going to be serious about this election, or is it really going to be all about Wright and race all the time?
 Most of the electorate understands that the U.S. is in sorry shape, which is why more than 80 percent of poll respondents say we're on the wrong track. The Rev. Jeremiah Wright has nothing to do with any of that. The idea that his nonsense may shape the outcome of this election is both tragic and absurd. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); PORNOGRAPHY (74%); SCANDALS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (72%); ARMIES (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); ENERGY DEMAND (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); IRAQ WAR (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (66%); WRITERS (66%); FUEL TAX (64%); GASOLINE (60%); TAX RELIEF (60%)

PERSON: JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MICHELLE OBAMA (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



83 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Crossing Over

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
Until now, Shirley Morgan had always been the kind of voter the Republican Party thought it could count on. She comes from a family of staunch Republicans, has a son in the military and has supported Republican presidential candidates ever since she cast her first ballot, for Richard M. Nixon in 1972.
 But this year Mrs. Morgan exemplifies a different breed: the Republican crossing over to vote in the Democratic primary. Not only will she mark her ballot for Senator Barack Obama in the May 6 primary here, but she has also been canvassing for him in the heavily Republican suburbs of Hamilton County, just north of Indianapolis -- the first time she has ever actively campaigned for a candidate.
 ''I used to like John McCain, but he's aligning himself too closely with what Bush did, and that's just not what I want for this country,'' Mrs. Morgan, who is 56, said when asked to explain her rejection of the presumptive Republican nominee. 
 Since the start of the primary and caucus season in January, Republican voters have been crossing over in increasing numbers to vote in Democratic contests -- supplying up to 10 percent of the vote in states that allow such crossover voting -- and they are expected to play a pivotal role in the fiercely contested primary here. What is less clear, however, is the motivation for their behavior: are they genuinely attracted by the two Democratic candidates? Or are they mischief-making spoilers, looking to prolong a divisive Democratic fight or support a candidate Mr. McCain can beat in November?
 Local Republican Party leaders in Indiana concede the attraction of the Democratic candidates to some of their party members. And interviews with roughly a dozen Republican voters in central Indiana suggest that they are driven mainly by concerns about the economy, with discontent over Bush administration policies driving their involvement in the Democratic race.
 ''Much as I like John McCain as a war hero, I am fearful he does not have the depth of experience to fix the economy,'' said Darlene Boatman, 62, a just-retired sales clerk who favors Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. ''We're all struggling here to make ends meet. I haven't had health care coverage in about 10 years and jobs are fewer and farther between. The economy is my biggest concern, and I think Hillary has the best understanding of how to pull off the recovery we need.''
 The drift has given some comfort to Democrats worried about the searing divisions in their party. Surveys of voters leaving the polls and official vote tabulations indicate that both Mr. Obama, of Illinois, and Mrs. Clinton, of New York, have benefited from the Republican crossover vote, though to different degrees and in patterns that vary by state. 
 Initially, Mr. Obama seemed to be getting the bulk of the vote, attracting moderate Republicans who quickly came to be known as Obamacans and lacing his stump speech with references to them. But more recently, Mrs. Clinton's share of the crossover vote has grown. 
 In Wisconsin's Feb. 19 contest, for example, Mr. Obama got about three-quarters of the votes cast by those identifying themselves as Republicans. In Texas' March 4 primary, though, he and Mrs. Clinton split the Republican vote almost evenly, while in Mississippi on March 11, she outpolled him among Republicans by a three-to-one margin.
 Even some states without open primaries seem to have experienced crossover voting. In the Pennsylvania vote on April 22, voter surveys indicated that about 5 percent of those voting in the Democratic primary were Republicans who switched their party registration; they split their vote almost evenly between the two candidates.
 Here in Indiana, both Democratic candidates are sending surrogates to campaign in traditionally Republican areas they might have ignored in years past, including in Hamilton County, Indiana's fastest-growing and most affluent county.
 ''We're getting a lot of inquiries from Republicans asking how do you do it, how do you cross over,'' Dan Parker, the Democratic Party state chairman, said in an interview here. ''It's been our No. 1 request for the past two months.''
 Clouding the picture, however, is a campaign by Rush Limbaugh, the radio talk show host, urging his listeners to cast their ballots for Mrs. Clinton ''if they can stomach it,'' in order to prolong the Democratic race and weaken the eventual winner. 
 ''They're in the midst of tearing themselves apart right now,'' Mr. Limbaugh said in an interview with Fox News just before the Texas and Ohio primaries on March 4. ''It's fascinating to watch, and it's all going to stop if Hillary loses.''
 But Republican voters interviewed here said that Mr. Limbaugh was not a factor in their decision to vote in the Democratic primary, and that it was the issues that propelled them. 
 ''I disagree with the Democrats on things like abortion and immigration, but I feel that the Republican Party I grew up in is out of touch with the middle-class family,'' said Dave Nichols, 40, the owner of a small memorabilia business in Fort Wayne, who has heard of Mr. Limbaugh's effort and is supporting Mrs. Clinton.
 Mr. Nichols said he had no health insurance and lived on a block where three houses were in foreclosure. ''McCain doesn't have an economic plan,'' he said ''We're in a recession and need relief now, but he wants to keep spending all that money over there in Iraq when there are so many things we need here at home, from infrastructure to health care.'' 
 Republican officials like Murray Clark, the state party chairman in Indiana, say that the extent of the crossover phenomenon has been ''greatly exaggerated'' and that in any case it does not serve the party's interests, because it draws potential Republican voters away from deciding other, more local races. 
 Mr. Clark acknowledged what he called ''heightened interest'' in the Democratic primary, but argued that Republican-leaning independents, rather than ''reliable and consistently Republican voters,'' accounted for the bulk of the shift. 
 ''It's probably a stretch to call it a crossover vote,'' Mr. Clark said. ''This is a unique situation. The circus is in town, and people want to go. This provides them an opportunity. But when the circus leaves town, we'll have six months of opportunities to contrast their candidate with ours.''
 Indeed, some of the crossover Republicans here who back Mr. Obama said they would vote for Mr. McCain in November if Mrs. Clinton ends up getting the Democratic nomination, while some of those supporting Mrs. Clinton said the same of Mr. Obama. But others said they simply could not imagine gravitating back to the Republican camp in this election.
 ''I would probably not vote, or maybe look at a third party,'' said Becky Kapsalis, who lives in Carmel, Ind., and describes herself as ''a 70-year-old white woman for Barack Obama.'' 
 ''I respect McCain for what he's done, his patriotism and devotion,'' Ms. Kapsalis said, ''but I just don't think he has the heart to lead us, and he doesn't speak to my heart the way this Barack Obama man does.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Melissa Achtien, a Republican, canvassing for Senator Barack Obama in Fishers, Ind., ahead of next week's Democratic primary, in which she plans to vote.
Darlene Boatman, a Republican, will vote in the Democratic primary, too: ''Much as I like John McCain as a war hero, I am fearful he does not have the depth of experience to fix the economy.''
 ''I used to like John McCain, but he's aligning himself too closely with what Bush did,'' said Shirley Morgan, a Republican canvassing this week for Mr. Obama, in Noblesville, Ind.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%) INDIANA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



84 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Turning Energy Uncertainty Into Opportunity

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HIGH energy prices, the search for new power sources and uncertainties over future national policies offer power companies challenges as well as opportunities. 
 Sempra Energy, a holding company that operates two Southern California utilities, is investing heavily in a giant new gas pipeline extending from the Colorado Rockies to Ohio. The company is also building two liquefied natural gas terminals, one in Baja California in Mexico and the other in Louisiana. 
 Such investments mean Sempra is poised to gain as the country hesitates to build new coal-fired power plants and embraces natural gas. But rising commodity prices and labor costs also carry risks for future profits. 
 Donald E. Felsinger, who has been Sempra's chairman and chief executive since February 2006, directs all strategic operations. Mr. Felsinger has been a leader in the industry in his warnings on global warming. He recently discussed energy policy and what consumers can expect. Following are excerpts from that interview:
 Q.How do you view the national economy from your vantage point as a provider of energy for millions of people and a builder of infrastructure?
 A. Everything we do today is at a record price. The L.N.G. terminals we are building, because of the price of base metals and labor, are at all-time highs. The cost of building new power plants is at all-time highs. The cost of building gas pipelines is at all time-highs. This will eventually end up as higher costs for customers.
 Q.Has the utility industry fully accepted that humankind is a primary cause of accelerated global warming?
 A. I don't believe we have 100 percent agreement that mankind is, in fact, the cause. But I think there is enough scientific evidence in place that we need to take action. We can continue to debate about what is actually causing it, but we need to take all the steps we can today to mitigate impacts on the climate from greenhouse gas. 
 Those utilities that build or would build coal-fired power plants perhaps have not made that leap yet that greenhouse gas emissions are part of global warming. But I think that most utilities have.
 Q.What kind of energy policy do you hope will come out of the next administration and Congress?
 A. Just an energy policy would be a good start. We have been 25 or 30 years talking about energy but the country does not have, in my opinion, an energy policy. Our nuclear program has been dead for 20 years. It needs to be revived. We need to have spent-fuel storage. And we need to have all of the electric generation in the country look at renewable energy as a way to meet future energy needs. So nuclear, renewable energy and then using clean fuels like natural gas as a bridge fuel would be a great start for an energy policy.
 There are too many vested interests in people who would like to build coal plants, people who would like to build gas-fired plants, people who only want to see renewables built and nothing else. It requires real leadership to bring all the parties together and say this is what we are going to do for the following reasons and get on with it. 
 The other problem is that for the last 10 years or so, we have been blessed with fairly low energy prices, the price of oil, the price of natural gas, and as such at a time when things don't cost very much, people don't get excited about rallying around and finding solutions. The whole debate around global warming has brought focus on the fact that we need to have a unified energy policy in the United States that addresses not only the cost but the impact on the environment.
 Q.Do you believe that some form of carbon emissions restrictions, perhaps in the form of a carbon tax, is inevitable? Would it be desirable?
 A. I believe they are inevitable. We are having debates within my own company about what is a better outcome, whether it be cap-and-trade or a tax. I think the most effective way to deal with carbon pollution is to have a carbon tax.
 Q.Liquified natural gas shipments to the United States are dropping because they are being diverted to other countries where prices are higher. How large a problem is that for national natural gas supplies?
 A. Gas is going to flow to the place where it gets the highest price, and it just so happens that in Asia there are no alternatives and so they pay whatever they have to get natural gas. Europe also pays higher prices. Over time, as we have more upstream liquefied natural gas available, it will start flowing down to lower-priced markets. We expect to see that happening sometime at the end of this decade.
 Q.Explain the importance of the new gas pipeline you are helping to build called the Rockies Express?
 A. Most of the producing basins for natural gas in the United States are in a state of decline. There are three or four natural gas basins that have more gas available but are not being produced because there is not adequate pipeline takeaway to get it to market. 
 We found that those producers that have natural gas reserves in the Rockies were selling their gas into low-priced markets and the high-priced markets like the East Coast were out of reach for them. 
 By us building a pipeline to higher-priced markets, it provides the incentives for the producers to go in and produce those supplies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donald E. Felsinger (PHOTOGRAPH BY THIJS WOLZAK FOTOGRAFIE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (77%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); LNG TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); BASE METALS MARKETS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (63%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (57%)

COMPANY: SEMPRA ENERGY (92%)

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO ROCKIES (58%)

TICKER: SRE (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: DONALD E FELSINGER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



85 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: 'Rough' 'Tough' Times, But Still No 'Recession'

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: MARYLAND HEIGHTS, Mo. 

 BODY:
President Bush has no shortage of words to describe the ailing economy.
 He began 2008 warning of ''the risk of a downturn'' and a ''period of uncertainty.'' Time and again, Mr. Bush has said the nation is in ''a rough patch.'' He calls the current climate ''a slowdown.'' In the Rose Garden this week, he spoke somberly of ''very difficult times, very difficult.''
 But there is one word Mr. Bush has not used: ''recession.'' 
 By avoiding the word ''recession'' when consumers are feeling squeezed and some economists think the nation is already in one, Mr. Bush is taking criticism for not telling it like it is. But Friday's less-dismal-than-expected jobs numbers, coupled with Wednesday's less-dismal-than-expected economic data, left him the wiggle room he needs to keep the word out of his lexicon.
 ''I know it's tough times,'' he said Friday in a session with employees of a technology company in this city outside St. Louis. He called the unemployment report, which showed 20,000 jobs lost in April, ''a sign that this economy is not as robust as any of us would like.''
 No president wants to admit a recession on his watch, though Mr. Bush talks about the recession of 2001, mostly to suggest he inherited a bad hand from President Bill Clinton. And no president wants to create a self-fulfilling prophecy with downbeat chatter that might further shake consumer confidence. Still, Mr. Bush walks a fine line as he reconciles the latest numbers with the pain many Americans feel.
 ''He's in a very difficult position,'' said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster who specializes in political rhetoric. ''He wants to reflect how Americans feel but at the same time not damage Republican hopes for the fall. If he acknowledges a recession, he'll have to take responsibility for it. But if he rejects a recession, he'll look out of touch.''
 The White House says there is no reason for Mr. Bush to talk about recession absent concrete proof the nation is in one, and it has been assertive about pushing back. When NBC News reported Wednesday that first-quarter growth data showed the nation just short of a recession, Tony Fratto, the deputy White House press secretary, sent a complaint to the anchor, Brian Williams.
 ''I e-mailed Brian and his producers and said, 'No, you're wrong,' '' Mr. Fratto recalled.
 Aboard Air Force One on the way here Friday, Mr. Fratto dismissed talk of even a mild recession, saying the new jobs numbers were ''not in recessionary territory.'' 
 The comment drew a sharp rebuke from Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, who ridiculed Mr. Bush and his advisers, saying they had not gotten the news that ''this is a recession that is hurting more Americans every day.''
 But ''recession,'' an emotionally freighted word, also has a technical meaning, and with Wall Street whispering another r-word -- ''rebound'' -- some economists say Mr. Bush is correct not to use it just yet. Michael T. Darda, the chief economist at MKM Partners, a nonpartisan brokerage and research firm, said Friday's numbers suggested ''a sharp slowdown,'' not quite a recession.
 The official determination will come from the National Bureau of Economic Research, an independent organization that tracks fluctuations in the business cycle. Luckily for Mr. Bush, the bureau works slowly -- so slowly that there may be no official word until after he leaves office. The last recession ended in November 2001; the bureau declared it official in June 2003.
 There is no hard and fast way to define a recession; the old rule of thumb -- two consecutive quarters of negative economic growth -- no longer applies. Instead, the bureau defines recession as ''a significant decline in economic activity spread across the economy, lasting more than a few months,'' and relies on a mix of economic indicators.
 That leaves the White House free to choose its own words -- a linguistic challenge that has bedeviled presidents past.
 When a top adviser to President Jimmy Carter, Alfred E. Kahn, warned of a depression, Mr. Carter was furious, and Mr. Kahn dropped the word from his vocabulary, substituting ''banana.'' (''We're now in danger of having the worst banana in 45 years,'' Time Magazine quoted him saying in 1978.) Mr. Carter himself is known for what many remember as his malaise speech (an aide, not Mr. Carter, used the word, but it stuck). 
 Mr. Bush's father, President George Bush, lost re-election in 1992 in part because his tone was out of sync with what Americans felt. ''He kept saying things have turned a corner, they're looking up; and statistically he was right,'' Mr. Luntz said. ''But nobody believed him.''
 The current Bush administration engaged in pessimistic economic talk early on, using it to make the case that tax cuts would spur growth. Even before taking office, Vice President Dick Cheney warned that the country could be ''on the front edge of a recession''; in March 2001, Mr. Bush warned that the economy was ''beginning to sputter.'' 
 That turned out to be accurate; the economic research bureau dates March as the beginning of the 2001 recession. But the remarks left Mr. Bush open to accusations of preying on anxieties to advance his tax agenda, said B. Dan Wood, a political scientist at Texas A & M University who has written a book on presidential economic rhetoric.
 ''In my view he lost credibility about the economy,'' Professor Wood said.
 Mr. Bush began this year talking about the economy's resilience, and its strong foundation, but as the picture has darkened, such talk often fell by the wayside. Here on Friday, it was back, with the president sounding far more chipper than just a few days ago in the Rose Garden, before the latest reports.
 ''I know it's tough times and I know you're having to pay more at the fuel pump than you want,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But this economy's going to come on. I'm confident it will.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



86 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeking Credit Card Rule Changes

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Federal bank regulators on Friday proposed a new set of rules to make it more difficult for credit card companies to raise rates arbitrarily, conceal high penalty fees or engage in other practices that consumer groups say are abusive.
 Under the proposal, credit card companies would generally have to give consumers more time to make payments before they are considered overdue. The companies would not be permitted to steer payments to pay down the portion of the bill that had lower interest charges. And they would be limited in raising the interest rate on an outstanding balance.
 ''The proposed rules are intended to establish a new baseline for fairness in how credit card plans operate,'' said Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, one of the three banking agencies to issue the proposal. ''Consumers relying on credit cards should be better able to predict how their decisions and actions will affect their costs.'' 
 Banking industry officials said they would fight the proposals.
 For months, the Fed has been considering a proposal to require the credit card companies to provide better disclosure of their fees and interest rate policies under the Truth in Lending Act. Officials said the plan announced Friday, which would be completed at the same time, was a change in regulations under the Federal Trade Commission Act. That law gives the federal banking agencies the authority to enforce regulations that prohibit unfair and deceptive acts in commerce. 
 At a meeting of the Federal Reserve Board on Friday, Mr. Bernanke said consumer comments during rule-making proceedings had made it clear ''that improved disclosures alone cannot solve all of the problems consumers face in trying to manage their credit card accounts.'' The new rules will also apply to fees and interest rates charged by savings associations for overdraft protection of checking accounts.
 Randall S. Kroszner, a Federal Reserve governor who leads the central bank's consumer and community affairs committee, said the proposal aimed to ''increase transparency and fairness in how credit card and deposit accounts operate.''
 But bank and credit card companies sharply attacked the proposal and indicated they would campaign vigorously to have it watered down.
 ''The Federal Reserve's proposal is an unprecedented regulatory intrusion into marketplace pricing and product offerings,'' said Edward L. Yingling, president and chief executive of the American Bankers Association. ''We are deeply concerned that these rules will result in less competition, higher consumer prices, fewer consumer choices and reduced consumer access to credit cards. In short, everyday consumers will bear the real cost of these proposals.''
 Mr. Yingling said the proposal was ''particularly perplexing'' because it would result in the reduction of the availability of credit ''at the very time the Fed is working to increase access to credit in the marketplace.''
 Paul Weston, executive vice president of ICBA Bancard, a subsidiary of the Independent Community Bankers of America that provides credit and debit services for smaller banks, said the rules would add costs but provide no significant benefits to credit card customers of community banks. If adopted, he said, the rules would probably motivate some community banks to eliminate their credit card operations, leaving credit cards to a handful of large institutions.
 The Office of Thrift Supervision and the National Credit Union Administration joined the Fed in proposing the rules. They were made public as Congress was considering its own measure to curtail credit card practices. 
 On Wednesday, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who heads the Banking Committee, introduced legislation to reduce high credit card fees and prevent arbitrary rate increases.
 ''Credit cards too often pose a potential to harm consumers rather than help them,'' Senator Dodd said when he introduced the measure. ''Confusing, misleading and in some cases predatory practices have become standard operating procedure for some in the credit card industry.''
 The agencies said they expected to adopt final rules by the end of the year, after a 75-day comment period.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Randall S. Kroszner leads the Federal Reserve committee on consumer issues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



87 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: As Gasoline Prices Soar, Politicians Fall Back on Familiar Solutions

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When President Bush called on Congress this week to address soaring gasoline prices by allowing drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and by expanding nuclear power, Democrats on Capitol Hill quickly pummeled him as falling back on tired ideas. 
 But high on the list of Congressional Democrats' own proposals is an eight-year-old bill, first introduced by Senator Herb Kohl of Wisconsin in 2000, that would classify the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries an illegal monopoly in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act. 
 Other ideas are nearly as worn, and politically, some are even less appealing. Senate Democrats have, for instance, resisted taking a position on temporarily suspending the federal gasoline tax, to avoid taking sides between their presidential contenders, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who favors it, and Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, who is opposed.
 The dearth of fresh ideas is perhaps the clearest sign of how policy makers have been flummoxed by the rise in oil prices. The Democrats are drawing up mostly recycled ideas to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, to tax excessive profits by oil companies, to limit speculation in trading oil futures and to crack down more aggressively on price gouging. 
 Senate Republicans, who mostly oppose suspending the 18.4-cent-a-gallon gasoline tax, also skirted around the issue this week to avoid contradicting their presumptive candidate, Senator John McCain of Arizona, who wants to suspend it for the summer. 
 The Republicans, meanwhile, recycled some of their old proposals to increase domestic production, with bills that would allow drilling in the Arctic, as well as in the Atlantic and Pacific, and would mandate increased production of fuel derived from coal. 
 Although officials at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue and on the campaign trail are eager to appear active in addressing the most critical pocket-book issue of the moment -- Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, is calling for a ''new Manhattan Project for clean energy independence'' -- officials quietly acknowledge that there is little that government can do in the short term to bring relief. 
 With $60 fill-ups routine in many regions, lawmakers in both parties are revving up efforts to make clear they are paying attention. They are also seeking to capitalize, with Republicans suggesting that Democrats are secretly pleased about the high prices because it is better environmentally if people drive less, and Democrats suggesting that Republicans are secretly happy about high prices because they are allies of big oil companies. 
 ''We're seeing the price soar higher and higher, and it's an election year,'' Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, said this week at a news conference. ''For some, honest talk about energy is there, and it's real. But for many, honest talk and high prices are not a very good combination.'' 
 Mr. Domenici insisted that the Republican proposals would help, if not right away, definitely over the longer term. 
 Both Republicans and Democrats faced unusually strong skepticism from the press corps. 
 ''Most of the provisions in this bill,'' a reporter told Mr. Domenici, ''the offshore drilling, the coal-to-liquid, have all failed at some point previously. What makes you think that there's any chance that any of this would pass in this Congress or that there's any support?'' 
 Mr. Domenici said, ''Let me say, ma'am, none of those failed when oil was $112, $115.'' 
 At a Democrats' news conference on Thursday, another reporter asked the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, ''Are these going to be fresh ideas or just regurgitated old ones that haven't been passed?'' 
 Mr. Reid laughed off the question, promising that Democrats would announce eye-popping proposals on Friday. Apparently, they were not quite eye-popping enough, because Mr. Reid postponed the announcement until next week. 
 Democratic aides said their bills would have five core components: a temporary moratorium on Strategic Petroleum Reserve contributions; new taxes on big oil companies' ''windfall'' profits; a crackdown on price gouging; Mr. Kohl's so-called Nopec plan, which would allow antitrust suits against OPEC; and new efforts to reduce speculation in oil futures. 
 Some Democrats have called on the Bush administration to delay arms deals with Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and other OPEC members unless they agree to increase oil production. 
 Tougher regulation of the futures market may be an area where lawmakers in both parties and the White House can find common ground, and it may also be an area where new public policy could make a dent in high prices. 
 In the fall, the Indian petroleum secretary proposed halting the trading of crude oil on commodities exchanges in an effort to drive down prices. Some oil-producing nations have said they believe that prices are inflated 25 percent to 40 percent above market demand because of real, or fraudulent, speculative trading. 
 The Federal Trade Commission announced on Thursday that it was developing new rules against manipulation of the market. Last year, Congress gave the commission wider authority to prohibit such manipulation.
 Democratic lawmakers hailed the F.T.C. announcement and said they hoped to pursue measures that would limit speculation. 
 Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, said Thursday in a speech on the Senate floor and Friday at a news conference that increased regulation could prevent market manipulation that was spiking prices. 
 ''We are going to use this law and this new rule to police the oil markets and stop any kind of activity that is spiking the price of gasoline and running our economy,'' Ms. Cantwell said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); FUTURES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (75%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); MONOPOLIZATION (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); FUEL TAX (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); HERB KOHL (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) ALASKA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



88 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: A Clinton Religion Aide Is Careful Not to Preach

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: DUNN, N.C. 

 BODY:
For Burns Strider, this was something close to heaven on earth. The smoke from the roasting pig was wafting over him, the Carolina sunshine was pouring down and he had a small-town preacher in his grasp.
 Propped against a white Chevy pickup truck with a plastic-foam plate of barbeque in his hand, he leaned in. ''Brother, let me ask you this,'' he said to the Rev. Ron Spears, pastor of the 150-member Faith and Power Christian Center in Dunn, a town astride Interstate 95 in southeast North Carolina. ''In the black community here, is there a meth problem? I know it's eating these towns up. My brother is a sheriff over in Mississippi, and when they get on this stuff, they can't get off.''
 ''Oh yeah,'' replied Mr. Spears, an African-American who refers to himself as Apostle Ron. ''We're just struggling with this.'' 
 The visit went on in this vein for 20 minutes, while former President Bill Clinton addressed a small crowd 30 yards away. Mr. Strider, an aide to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton who was touring rural North Carolina with Mr. Clinton this week, wanted to know if the pastor's church could afford to provide him health care (it cannot), if he was bi-vocational (no, he did not have another job), if he had ties to the military (his father was a Green Beret).
 He did not ask whom Mr. Spears was supporting in the Democratic presidential contest. Mr. Strider is a political operator, no doubt, but this is the soft sell, the only kind he knows. 
 Mr. Strider carries the title of senior adviser and director of faith-based operations for the Clinton campaign, but that only begins to describe his mission. A native of Grenada, Miss., he is the emissary from and to rural and religious voters, particularly in the South. His job is to close the God Gap and the Bubba Gap, helping Mrs. Clinton connect with evangelicals and veterans and Nascar fans, the kind of voters that Senator Barack Obama clumsily referred to as bitter small-towners who cling to their God and their guns in times of economic hardship.
 He approaches his work with religious gladness. He may be the happiest man in either campaign, happier certainly than, say, Harold Ickes, whose job is to browbeat superdelegates for Mrs. Clinton, or the Googling gnomes in Mr. Obama's opposition research cave. While Mr. Strider certainly believes in Mrs. Clinton's candidacy, he does not have the personal, political and financial interest in it that many of her other staff members do. He is, adapting a phrase much used by Christians, in the political world but not of the political world.
 Mrs. Clinton recruited Mr. Strider from the staff of the House Democratic Caucus, where he was brought in after the 2004 election to explain evangelical Christians and try to rope them back into the Democratic Party. The effort showed some signs of success in 2006, and Mrs. Clinton hired Mr. Strider to try to drive the wedge deeper between religious voters and the Republican Party. Mr. Obama, too, has a director of religious outreach, Joshua Dubois, an associate pastor of a small church in Massachusetts and a former aide to two Democratic members of Congress.
 Mr. Strider, a paunchy 42-year-old, worked for two years a decade ago as a Southern Baptist missionary in Hong Kong, but never formally entered the ministry. He also spent a summer in his youth on the competitive pig-smoking circuit in Mississippi. He was pretty good, he said, but not good enough to qualify for the World Championship Barbecue Cooking Contest held every May in Memphis.
 Mr. Strider loves the political game, which he learned from his father, an elected county sheriff. He served as a Clinton delegate at the 1992 Democratic convention and said he must have seen the ''Man from Hope'' video 1,000 times.
 He knows that politics is as often about driving people apart as bringing them together, he said, but he is trying to be a voice for reconciliation, and he hopes to continue to be one, however this contest ends.
 ''I've seen the differences, confluences, hiccups, clashes nearly every day for the nine years I've been in D.C.,'' Mr. Strider wrote in one of a number of e-mail exchanges. ''It can be fun and informing or it can be painful when those core, foundational, defining beliefs and ways of seeing things enter into competition. Fortunately, faith and patriotism are generally two forces that pull us all together. Place us in communion as Americans. Their power, though, is also felt during those times when historical and cultural trauma uses them as agents that divide.''
 This is as close as Mr. Strider gets to uttering the words ''Jeremiah Wright.'' Mr. Wright, Mr. Obama's controversial former pastor, is not a part of Mr. Strider's pitch and he seldom comes up in conversation, Mr. Strider said.
 Back in Dunn, Apostle Ron introduced Mr. Strider to two members of his flock, Ezekiel Toro, 21, and Jessica Griffin, 18. 
 Bill Clinton was wrapping up his remarks, the pig was pretty well picked over and Mr. Strider was trying to close the deal. ''Are you all registered to vote?'' he asked them. ''I hope you'll consider Senator Clinton. We wouldn't be out here if we weren't serious about talking to people like you.''
 They nodded politely. 
 Mr. Strider pressed on. ''We grow tired, but we're all out here telling the story of the Clintons,'' he said.
 After the Clinton motorcade pulled away, Apostle Ron expressed appreciation for the work of a fellow evangelist.
 ''There's nothing phony about him,'' he said. ''I really liked his humility. And, yes, it changed the way I think about Hillary Clinton. If she's surrounded by people of that character and quality, it's worth taking a second look.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Burns Strider, right, senior adviser and director of faith-based operations for the Clinton campaign, on Wednesday in Dunn, N.C.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); RACE & RACISM (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); SUPERDELEGATES (64%); SPORTS FANS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



89 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: His Fortune Made, De La Hoya Brings Fight to the People

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
If you absolutely had to watch Oscar De La Hoya's eight fights since June 2001, it cost you about $400 in pay-per-view fees, enough to fill up your S.U.V. 
 Your cable and satellite provider thank you. De La Hoya and his foes/business partners -- especially Floyd (Money) Mayweather Jr., who beat him last year -- thank you.
 Each of you has chipped in to create the boxing record of $626 million in pay-per-view revenue that De La Hoya's fights have generated since it cost a mere $29.95 to watch him stop Rafael Ruelas in Round 2 of a bout in 1995. 
 He and Mayweather broke the single-fight record with $134 million in revenue on 2.4 million buys a year ago in Las Vegas. But as easy as it is for De La Hoya to conjure pay-per-view cash -- win or lose, great opponent or not -- his junior middleweight fight Saturday against the little-known Steve Forbes is on HBO. 
 De La Hoya's appeal, even at 35 and after losing three of his last five fights, could probably support several hundred thousand pay-per-view buys against Forbes, whose greatest renown came in losing the final bout of ''The Contender'' series two years ago.
 Richard Schaefer, the chief executive of De La Hoya's Golden Boy Promotions, figured that $10 million was left on the table by De La Hoya's appearing on HBO for the first time since he dispatched Arturo Gatti in a fifth-round technical knockout seven years ago in Las Vegas.
 Schaefer and HBO officials said that De La Hoya pushed for his fight with Forbes to be shown on the cable network. 
 ''It was his decision, so that people don't have to spend the money on pay per view,'' Schaefer said. ''It's really a thank you to HBO and his fans.''
 It was also De La Hoya's idea, Schaefer said, to fight in the Los Angeles area at the Home Depot Center's soccer stadium, with tickets priced lower than they would be in a Las Vegas casino. Some of the tickets are only $25. De La Hoya last fought in Los Angeles, his hometown, in 2000. 
 Mark Taffet, the senior vice president of HBO Sports, said the network and De La Hoya calculated the broader benefits of not pursuing the pay-per-view route.
 ''Any time Oscar fights, we'd love to do it live on HBO,'' said Taffet, the network's pay-per-view overlord. ''But when the economics are overbearing, the fight goes to pay per view. What was unique in this circumstance is that Oscar realized that these are among his last fights and he wanted to fight in front of a larger audience.''
 Therein lies the backward logic of boxing: The biggest events are marginalized for a steep pay-per-view fee while championships in other sports are carried on broadcast television, which long ago cast boxing adrift, but is embracing mixed martial arts.
 De La Hoya and Schaefer, a former banker, are canny businessmen who aren't in boxing to be charitable. They have ridden the pay-per-view wave to magnificent riches and are now seeking to appear beneficent. No harm is done by fighting on HBO. 
 De La Hoya's generosity should have been extended in 2004 to fans who had to pay $49.95 to see De La Hoya fight a non-marquee opponent like Felix Sturm, just $5 less than it cost to watch Bernard Hopkins flatten De La Hoya three months later.
 Insisting that he fight Forbes on HBO helps De La Hoya promote his planned rematch against Mayweather in September. ''Oscar thought it was time to take a short-term pay cut to help the long-term potential of his subsequent fights,'' said Ross Greenburg, the president of HBO Sports. ''And how much money does he need?'' 
 The HBO audience will surpass anything achievable on pay per view, and fighting Forbes there will prepare fans to pay $55 or more for Mayweather redux. Mayweather seemed to be trying to ensure a Forbes loss when he ordained that his trainer and uncle, Roger, would not train Forbes for the bout; another uncle, Jeff, replaced him. ''He said, 'I'm not going to let him beat Oscar and blow the rematch,' '' Greenburg said of Mayweather.
 The combined appeal of De La Hoya and Mayweather, the irrepressible, outsize self-promoter and moonlighting World Wrestling Entertainment star, produced those 2.4 million pay-per-view purchases, a million more than De La Hoya's earlier peak, against Felix Trinidad. Taffet said De La Hoya, in the Mayweather bout, and in an earlier one against Ricardo Mayorga, showed broad appeal across the country, not just in traditionally Hispanic markets. He said that for the Mayweather fight, the New York and Los Angeles markets each had about 150,000 buys, and the next 30 or 40 markets generally had between 25,000 and 50,000.
 ''Oscar's appeal crosses all ethnicities, genders and demographics,'' he said.
 Schaefer added, ''The roots of his fans are Hispanics, but he is a breakthrough star like Tiger Woods.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oscar De La Hoya, left with Steve Forbes, is fighting on HBO for the first time since 2001.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAY PER VIEW (91%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BOXING (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); SOCCER (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (63%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (63%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (63%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA HOYA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



90 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Indiana Holiday

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Our question for today is: What does the debate over that cheesy plan for a gas tax holiday mean to the American voting public?
 This all started with John McCain, who proposed suspending the 18.4-cent-per-gallon federal gas tax from Memorial Day to Labor Day in order to give regular hard-working Americans ''a little relief.'' In terms of rational policy-making, this is a little bit like announcing that you want to reduce tensions in the Middle East by drilling an enormous hole in Sweden.
 Economists instantly pointed out that dropping the tax would cost the government around $9 billion, possibly add to the already obscene profits of the oil companies and do little or nothing to actually lower the price of fuel. Not to mention that it points us in the exact wrong direction on global warming and energy independence. 
 But, hey, nothing's perfect.
 McCain has taken to responding to criticism like this by saying that his proposal is not ''the end of western civilization as we know it.'' This is a little weird coming from the guy who spent the early primary season depicting Hillary Clinton's attempt to get a million dollars for a Woodstock museum as a nuclear strike against the nation's economic security. 
 The real point of the tax holiday proposal is, of course, to show sympathy for the little guy. It's been a tough few months for McCain and the smallish folk, what with all those tax-cut plans for the wealthy. And then there was the health care speech when he told people to take responsibility for buying their own insurance policies and ''watch your diet, walk 30 or so minutes a day and take a few other simple precautions'' so they won't get sick. We will think of this forevermore as his Let Them Not Eat Cake moment.
 Sniffing at the Washington elite who make fun of his tax holiday, McCain told Joe Scarborough Thursday on MSNBC: ''You know that the people who live in Georgetown could literally walk to work.'' Yes, there is nothing worse than snobs who live close to the office making fun of a gas-tax holiday that would in the best possible circumstances save real hard-working Americans 30 cents a day. The point is particularly piquant when made by a guy who flies around the country in his wife's private plane.
 Meanwhile, to make up for the lost revenue, McCain says ''all we need to do is cut out hundreds of millions and billions of dollars of pork-barrel projects.'' These are presumably different pork-barrel projects from the ones McCain is going to cut in order to pay for $613 billion in permanent tax cuts.
 Hillary Clinton, who jumped on the gas-tax holiday bandwagon posthaste, wants to pay for it with a windfall profits tax on oil companies. This makes her plan much more fiscally responsible. Not only does she balance the books, she turns a proposal that was unlikely to ever get passed into one that could not make it through the Senate if Ronald Reagan and John F. Kennedy both rose from the dead and hand-carried it there.
 There are few things more satisfying than taking a strong stand in favor of something that is never going to happen. Free pander!
 ''I find it, frankly, a little offensive that people who don't have to worry about filling up their gas tank or what they buy when they go to the supermarket think it's somehow illegitimate to provide relief for ... millions and millions of Americans,'' said Clinton the other day. She rammed the point home with a photo-op at a gasoline station while, as The Washington Post pointed out, her own fleet of S.U.V.'s ran their engines patiently right out of camera range.
 Barack Obama thinks this is all incredibly stupid. He is certainly not pander-phobic himself. (See: Nafta, promise never to raise middle-class taxes.) But he drew a line on this one. In Indiana, his new ad calls it ''a short-term quick fix that we can say we did something even though we're not really doing anything.'' 
 All this actually tells us something about the Democratic candidates, which has nothing to do with fuel prices. Obama believes voters want a sensible, less-divisive political dialogue, that the whole process can become more honorable if the right candidate leads the way. Hillary really doesn't buy that. She has principles, but she doesn't believe in principled stands. She thinks that if she can get elected, she can do great things. And to get there, she's prepared to do whatever. That certainly includes endorsing any number of meaningless-to-ridiculous ideas. (See: her bill to make it illegal to desecrate an American flag.)
 On Tuesday, root for the Democrat whose vision of the political process comes closest to matching your own. And I do not want you to be swayed by the fact that Hillary and Barack are finally having a policy debate, and it's about the dumbest idea in the campaign. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008



91 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Make An Orderly Exit

BYLINE: By ANTHONY H. CORDESMAN

 BODY:
IF the United States is to succeed in Iraq, if the Bush administration is to manage a credible transition to the next president and if there is to be any hope of a bipartisan approach to the war there, we need a clear plan to move forward. Good plans cannot guarantee the future, but they can provide good options. 
 Over the next few years, the United States should seek to decrease its forces from the 15 combat brigades planned for July to no more than five, and reduce their role to a largely advisory one. This would largely eliminate the heavy loss in lives and reduce the cost of the war from $12 billion a month during the peak of the surge in 2007 to about $12 billion a year. 
 We should also phase out most aid to Iraq by the middle of the next presidency. The United States has already disbursed most of the $20.9 billion it has appropriated for the Iraqi Reconstruction and Relief Fund. And the State Department's request for economic and security aid has dropped from $2.1 billion in 2007 to $960 million this year and $397 million for 2009. The United States should also give Iraq the military equipment that is already there and too expensive to bring back. 
 During this process, the United States needs to encourage the various Iraqi factions to reach a political compromise and follow through on its schedule to hold fair and meaningful elections. Specifically, Iraq should stick to its goal of having local and provincial elections in October and national ones in late 2009.
 Well-timed troop withdrawals and a reduction in war costs, along with credible Iraqi elections, would move the United States down a path that most Americans and Congress would support -- one the next president would have a reason to take.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



92 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Tell The People?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Traveling the country these past five months while writing a book, I've had my own opportunity to take the pulse, far from the campaign crowds. My own totally unscientific polling has left me feeling that if there is one overwhelming hunger in our country today it's this: People want to do nation-building. They really do. But they want to do nation-building in America.
 They are not only tired of nation-building in Iraq and in Afghanistan, with so little to show for it. They sense something deeper -- that we're just not that strong anymore. We're borrowing money to shore up our banks from city-states called Dubai and Singapore. Our generals regularly tell us that Iran is subverting our efforts in Iraq, but they do nothing about it because we have no leverage -- as long as our forces are pinned down in Baghdad and our economy is pinned to Middle East oil. 
 Our president's latest energy initiative was to go to Saudi Arabia and beg King Abdullah to give us a little relief on gasoline prices. I guess there was some justice in that. When you, the president, after 9/11, tell the country to go shopping instead of buckling down to break our addiction to oil, it ends with you, the president, shopping the world for discount gasoline.
 We are not as powerful as we used to be because over the past three decades, the Asian values of our parents' generation -- work hard, study, save, invest, live within your means -- have given way to subprime values: ''You can have the American dream -- a house -- with no money down and no payments for two years.''
 That's why Donald Rumsfeld's infamous defense of why he did not originally send more troops to Iraq is the mantra of our times: ''You go to war with the army you have.'' Hey, you march into the future with the country you have -- not the one that you need, not the one you want, not the best you could have.
 A few weeks ago, my wife and I flew from New York's Kennedy Airport to Singapore. In J.F.K.'s waiting lounge we could barely find a place to sit. Eighteen hours later, we landed at Singapore's ultramodern airport, with free Internet portals and children's play zones throughout. We felt, as we have before, like we had just flown from the Flintstones to the Jetsons. If all Americans could compare Berlin's luxurious central train station today with the grimy, decrepit Penn Station in New York City, they would swear we were the ones who lost World War II.
 How could this be? We are a great power. How could we be borrowing money from Singapore? Maybe it's because Singapore is investing billions of dollars, from its own savings, into infrastructure and scientific research to attract the world's best talent -- including Americans.
 And us? Harvard's president, Drew Faust, just told a Senate hearing that cutbacks in government research funds were resulting in ''downsized labs, layoffs of post docs, slipping morale and more conservative science that shies away from the big research questions.'' Today, she added, ''China, India, Singapore ... have adopted biomedical research and the building of biotechnology clusters as national goals. Suddenly, those who train in America have significant options elsewhere.''
 Much nonsense has been written about how Hillary Clinton is ''toughening up'' Barack Obama so he'll be tough enough to withstand Republican attacks. Sorry, we don't need a president who is tough enough to withstand the lies of his opponents. We need a president who is tough enough to tell the truth to the American people. Any one of the candidates can answer the Red Phone at 3 a.m. in the White House bedroom. I'm voting for the one who can talk straight to the American people on national TV -- at 8 p.m. -- from the White House East Room.
 Who will tell the people? We are not who we think we are. We are living on borrowed time and borrowed dimes. We still have all the potential for greatness, but only if we get back to work on our country.
 I don't know if Barack Obama can lead that, but the notion that the idealism he has inspired in so many young people doesn't matter is dead wrong. ''Of course, hope alone is not enough,'' says Tim Shriver, chairman of Special Olympics, ''but it's not trivial. It's not trivial to inspire people to want to get up and do something with someone else.''
 It is especially not trivial now, because millions of Americans are dying to be enlisted -- enlisted to fix education, enlisted to research renewable energy, enlisted to repair our infrastructure, enlisted to help others. Look at the kids lining up to join Teach for America. They want our country to matter again. They want it to be about building wealth and dignity -- big profits and big purposes. When we just do one, we are less than the sum of our parts. When we do both, said Shriver, ''no one can touch us.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); ARMIES (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (65%); CHILDREN (64%); WORLD WAR II (62%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



93 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FREAKONOMICS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Hoop Data Dreams

BYLINE: By STEPHEN J. DUBNER and STEVEN D. LEVITT. 
Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of the book ''Freakonomics.'' They are taking a hiatus after this column to complete their next book, ''SuperFreakonomics.''

 BODY:
The True Value of Rajon Rondo
 After going dry for 86 seasons, the Boston Red Sox have won two World Series in the past four years. This hot stretch began soon after the team hired Bill James, the sport's most accomplished statistician, as a senior baseball operations adviser. Whether coincidence or not, this overlap was widely noted, and it is now standard practice for baseball teams to hire a flock of statheads and use their analyses to help make decisions on and off the field.
 This probably makes good sense for a sport like baseball, which is full of discrete events that are easily measured. It is also understandable, however, that there is less of an edge to be gained from statistical analysis now that everyone is doing it.
 Basketball, meanwhile, might seem too hectic and woolly for such rigorous dissection. It is far more collaborative than baseball and happens much faster, with players shifting from offense one moment to defense the next. (Hockey and football present their own challenges.) A lot of things happen on a basketball court -- picks, passes, defensive shifts -- that aren't routinely quantified. This is not to suggest that basketball teams don't think statistically. But only recently have a few teams begun to hire a new breed of stathead to scrutinize every conceivable variable. 
 The Boston Celtics, owned by several men with venture-capital backgrounds, have for the past few years been one of the most data-driven teams in the N.B.A. They have also just completed the biggest single-season turnaround in history, entering the playoffs two weeks ago with a league-best 66 victories after winning just 24 games last year.
 Coincidence? Probably, for the Celtics obtained two monstrously accomplished players in the off-season, Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen. It didn't take a statistician to tell you that the Celtics would be a lot better this year than last.
 But the team also employs what the general manager, Danny Ainge, calls his ''secret weapon,'' a 32-year-old named Mike Zarren, who seems to know every data point about every N.B.A. player, past and present. Garnett calls him Numbers, the Celtics Dancers call him Stats and Paul Pierce, the team's longtime standout, calls him M.I.T. even though Zarren never went there. He did, however, lead a University of Chicago quiz-bowl team to four national tournament victories and later graduated from Harvard Law. (Disclosure: Steven Levitt taught Zarren while the latter was an economics undergrad at Chicago.) He subsequently fell from the lofty realm of academia into his dream job, as the Celtics' stat savant.
 Zarren also happens to be the team's associate counsel, although this would be hard to believe if you came across him at a game, way up in the cheap seats, wearing his green satin Celtics jacket and shouting himself hoarse: ''He pushed! He pushed! . . . You got 'em, K.G.!'' To describe his Celtics fandom as rabid would be a gross understatement. This is his third season on the Celtics' payroll -- he worked two years without pay as a law student and while clerking for a judge -- but his family has had season tickets since 1974. He began regularly attending games at age 5, and since moving back to Boston after college, he has missed only five home games.
 ''Three of those,'' he says, ''were due to illness.''
 Danny Ainge was a key player on the last Celtics team to win an N.B.A. title, more than 20 years ago. He also played Major League Baseball for three summers, with the Toronto Blue Jays. You might think that is why he embraces the statistical approach to sport now commonly called ''moneyball,'' after the title of Michael Lewis's book, but in fact Ainge is not a true believer. ''I just think there's a lot of to-do about nothing in some of that,'' he says. ''I mean, I heard about on-base percentage in 1976 when I was a junior in high school.''
 Ainge hired Zarren simply because he wants any advantage worth having, and Zarren's insights are ''more information on every decision we make,'' Ainge says. ''Mike is a much smarter guy than I am. I'm open to smarter people than me. It still comes down to my instincts. I have to make the choice, no matter what my scouts say, no matter what the models say. I don't think it's realistic to think that a statistical model will ever be foolproof in basketball because there are so many variables, but I do think it can help us.''
 There are two channels through which Zarren can help the Celtics. The first is by assessing potential deals and draft picks, which means bouncing information off of Ainge. The second channel is strategic advice, which means going to Coach Doc Rivers, whom Ainge says is ''skeptically receptive'' to Zarren's insights. You sense that Zarren has gained credibility within the Celtics not because the basketball people adore his regression analyses but because he adores the sport. ''Most geeks are not basketball guys,'' Zarren says, ''and most basketball guys are not geeks. You have to be both to be successful in this developing field.''
 What's the most efficient shot to take besides a layup? Easy, says Zarren: a three-pointer from the corner. What's one of the most misused, misinterpreted statistics? ''Turnovers are way more expensive than people think,'' Zarren says. That's because most teams focus on the points a defense scores from the turnover but don't correctly value the offense's opportunity cost -- that is, the points it might have scored had the turnover not occurred.
 As for what the Celtics know about their own and opposing players -- well, that information is guarded like the crown jewels. Off the record and under duress, Zarren did reveal some valuable information, but we judged credible his threat to hunt us down and kill us if it were published. He was willing to admit that Ray Allen's worth goes far beyond his perimeter shooting, that Rajon Rondo's rebounding was an undervalued asset, that Leon Powe's surprisingly strong play was not so surprising to the Celtics and that, as transformative a player as Garnett was known to be, he has generated a variety of offensive and defensive pluses that even the Celtics didn't anticipate.
 Zarren is also responsible for the Celtics' basketball-related technology and uses a service that delivers video footage tagged with statistical information. With just a few mouse clicks, he can call up every clip in which LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers has touched the ball at the top of the key and see whether he went left or right, was double-teamed or not, passed or shot -- and, if the latter, whether he missed, scored or was fouled. So if the Celtics dampen James's scoring the next time they play a high-stakes game against the Cavs, Zarren might be entitled to a smidgen of credit.
 Still, there remains a significant universe of basketball statistics that are simply not captured: each pass thrown and caught, each player's position on the floor at a given time, any number of angles and proximities and nuances. Zarren lusts after such data and is quietly pushing for a technological solution that would produce it. One possibility: embed the floor of each N.B.A. arena with electronic sensors and have the players wear microchips in their sneakers.
 The last few decades have been sad ones for the Celtics, marked by loss of life (including Len Bias, their 1986 first-round draft pick) and losses on the court. All that gloom will dissipate if they can manage to win their 17th championship this season. Other teams will of course rush to mimic the Celtics' formula -- beginning, presumably, by trying to acquire a player like Kevin Garnett. But there are a lot more Mike Zarrens in the world than there are Kevin Garnetts, and they also happen to come with a much lower price tag. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL SAHRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); BOSTON CELTICS (54%)

PERSON: KEVIN GARNETT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



94 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Low Expectations Made for a Good Week

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market rose last week on news that generally wasn't very good but was still better than expected. 
 On Friday, for example, the Labor Department disclosed that the United States economy shed 20,000 jobs in April, the fourth consecutive monthly decline. But because a loss of 80,000 jobs had been predicted by a consensus of Wall Street economists, the market rose on the news. 
 Similarly, General Motorsannounced that it lost $3.25 billion or $5.74 a share in the first quarter, enormous numbers by any standard. Yet G.M. was the best-performing stock among the Dow industrials, with an 8.5 percent weekly gain. Why? Wall Street stock analysts had expected much worse.
 For the week, the Dow gained 166.34 points, or 1.3 percent, to close at 13,058.20. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 16.06 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 1,413.90. The Nasdaq composite index rose 54.06 points, or 2.2 percent, to close at 2,476.99. 
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.86 percent from 3.87 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



95 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS GREENPOINT, BROOKLYN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: A More Permanent Crash Pad

BYLINE: By CELIA BARBOUR

 BODY:
THEY know they are fortunate. And they know it might not last. But for now, George Alan Bender and Robin Scott are grateful for the circumstances they find themselves in, a consequence of their luck (genetic and otherwise) and their good sense not to squander it.
 The friends met modeling for Hermes in Paris, ''years ago -- four, five years ago,'' said Mr. Bender, 27, who goes by the name George Alan professionally. Both of them had been discovered on the street -- Mr. Scott in Rome and Mr. Bender in New York City -- and stumbled into modeling by accident, after receiving their undergraduate degrees. Mr. Scott, 28, studied Italian and economics at the University College London; Mr. Bender majored in graphic design and copywriting at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City. 
 And while neither had a particular interest in men's fashion, they enjoyed its trappings, spending time in Milan, London, Paris and New York, with a fluctuating group of professional peers. 
 Home base during those years was a succession of sprawling lofts rented by Mr. Bender in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and inhabited by whoever was in town for the season. 
 ''I ended up coming to New York and staying with George and a couple of his flat mates,'' said Mr. Scott, 28, who grew up in London and rural Wales.
 ''We were living dorm-style,'' Mr. Bender said, ''always with numerous, transient roommates.''
 But when the group was evicted suddenly three years ago, Mr. Scott and Mr. Bender began wishing for more stable housing. They soon had plenty of time to formulate a plan: work took them to Europe and Japan for five months, and after that they decided to go trekking through Southeast Asia together. ''It was amazing,'' Mr. Scott said of their travels. Mr. Bender said, ''We were tempted to stick around longer.'' 
 After nearly a year of living on the road -- and trail -- they returned to New York and began to hunt for a house, having decided to pool their resources. 
 ''We were almost at the point financially where either of us could have done it by ourselves,'' Mr. Bender said, ''but we would have been flat broke. And neither one of us wanted to carry all that debt on our own. So it seemed like the logical thing to do.'' 
 A couple of months into the search they saw a charming but shabby 2,200-square-foot row house with a garden, not far from the waterfront in Greenpoint. But their sights were set on Williamsburg, so they passed it by. ''We saw about 30 other houses,'' Mr. Bender said. ''And every other house we compared to this one. We realized: Well, why are we doing this comparison thing? Why not just take the place we love?'' 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Scott said, ''We started to come down here and check out the neighborhood, and it turned out we really liked it more than Williamsburg, which had already become saturated with want-to-be artists, and sort of a fashion parade on Bedford Street.'' 
 ''We lucked out,'' Mr. Bender added. The three-story house was still available. They bought it jointly in March 2007 for $890,000, and soon after rented out the ground floor. Mr. Scott moved into the front bedroom while Mr. Bender took the one overlooking the garden, at the back.
 While it wasn't as raw as some of the lofts they had shared, it did need work. ''Nothing in the house is level,'' Mr. Bender said. In addition, the roof leaked, the windows let drafts in, and the garden had been used as a garbage dump. Fortunately, the skills it demanded were in their genes: Mr. Scott's father was an architect, and Mr. Bender's owned a construction company. 
 ''Since moving to Manhattan, I hadn't gotten my hands dirty,'' said Mr. Bender, who grew up in Ocean Township, N.J. ''So to build up some calluses was gratifying.''
 They paved the backyard with bricks salvaged from turn-of-the-last-century warehouses that were being torn down nearby. ''Me and George were out here for a good week, laying bricks and drinking Polish beer,'' Mr. Scott said.
 Mr. Bender added, ''You can't drink anything else in this neighborhood.''
 The two saw eye to eye when it came to making aesthetic choices. ''The rationale with this place is you can't really fight what you've got here,'' Mr. Scott said. ''You just kind of roll with it.'' 
 Thus the gold crown moldings set against a two-tone blue ceiling.
 ''We just kept getting a little funkier and a little stranger, and eventually it kind of snowballed,'' Mr. Bender said.
 They acquired furnishings from around the neighborhood. ''It's all based on what you could carry on a bicycle,'' he said. ''We'd go around on our bikes picking through the trash and whoever brought home the most fashionable object was the winner of the day.''
 But all the funkiness in the world can't hide the fact that, at an age when most of their peers are worried about which nightclub to go to next, Mr. Bender and Mr. Scott are behaving a lot like responsible citizens; they even attend local community board meetings. 
 ''When you are invested in a neighborhood, it raises your obligations to the area,'' Mr. Scott said. ''I always walk down the street and pick up any Coke cans on the sidewalk.''
 Not to say they're stodgy. In fact, their backyard is the site of boisterous summer barbecues. And their house, which has two bedrooms in addition to their two, is still a crash pad for transient friends. ''Which, really, we don't mind,'' Mr. Bender said. ''It keeps things interesting.''
 ''It's good to have humans around,'' Mr. Scott added. 
 With the house nearly finished, they're turning their sights to other projects. They have plans to open a bar in the neighborhood next year. They still model when called, which helps cover the mortgage. Both are avid photographers.
 Mr. Scott works as an agent at Homestead New York, a real estate office on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, commuting by bicycle over the Queensboro Bridge. These days, he finds it difficult to offer objective advice to clients. ''It's hard for me not to say, 'You should move out to Greenpoint,' to all these people who are paying huge rents in Manhattan,'' he said.
 It isn't that they want an influx of new neighbors. They like Greenpoint the way it is. ''I can see staying here for a long time,'' Mr. Bender said. ''I used to keep my cardboard boxes because I knew I would use them again in the next six or eight months. After we moved here, I threw them all away.'' 
 But life never stops changing, as they both know. So what happens to the house when their paths diverge? Do they have an out clause?
 ''We've got a gentlemen's agreement,'' Mr. Bender said, at the exact moment that Mr. Scott said, ''Murder.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FUNKY DECOR: George Alan Bender, left, and Robin Scott decorated their Greenpoint row house with castoffs. Walls were painted red, and the gold crown moldings are set against a ceiling of two shades of blue.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATE GLICKSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); MEN'S CLOTHING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); JAPAN (76%); EUROPE (71%); ASIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



96 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2985 words

HEADLINE: Riding the Waves of Peru

BYLINE: By JULIA CHAPLIN. 
JULIA CHAPLIN is a frequent contributor to the Travel section.

 BODY:
IT was high tide on a scorching Tuesday, and the choppy beaches around Lima, Peru, were crawling with surfers. There were teenagers in ratty flip-flops carrying short boards patched with duct tape, and bronzed women in wet suits paddling out into the shimmering blue waves. There was even a businessman in his 30s, who climbed out of a black-tinted S.U.V. in nothing but shorts, as a muscular chauffeur handed him a freshly waxed board, a bottle of water and a dab of sunscreen.
 The only thing missing, it seemed, were tourists. Despite having monster swells on par with those that hit Hawaii's legendary northern shores, Peru isn't known as a surfing destination, except perhaps by a small band of jet-setting surfers for whom no wave is beyond reach. 
 That is, unless you happen to be one of the approximately 28 million inhabitants of Peru, South America's third-largest country in area. Then you know very well that surfing has swept the nation recently in a pop cultural frenzy. On the wide boulevards of Lima, billboards are covered with the fresh-faced ranks of Peruvian surfers endorsing cellphones, beer and soft drinks. Surfing contests are all the rage. And to the south, where the waves are even bigger, physical attributes like pumped-up lungs, buff shoulders and sun-bleached hair seem to be bred into the local DNA. 
 And now, as Peru rides a tourism wave propelled by a strong economy and favorable exchange rates for bargain-minded Americans, it is poised to become the new ''it'' spot on the international surfing circuit. After all, Peru has 1,500 miles of rugged coastline dotted with countless breakers, from pristine beaches tucked around Lima to unexplored pockets up north where some waves are said to last more than a mile. And unlike Malibu, Hawaii's northern shores and other well-known places, many of Peru's best surfing spots are often nearly empty. 
 With so much to explore, surfing has muscled in on soccer and the culinary arts to become an unlikely symbol of national hope. Much of the current craze can be traced back to 24-year-old Sofia Mulanovich, a Peruvian who won the World Surfing Championship title in Hawaii in 2004 -- a contest dominated by Australians and Americans. And if the ranks of teenagers who frolic their spare hours away in the swell have any say, surfing in Peru will only get bigger. 
 That's true up and down Peru's coast, whether it's a small town like Chicama in the country's north, famous for its super-long waves, or around the busy capital of Lima, where the sometimes polluted breaks are teeming with surfers from dusk till dawn. But the epicenter of the neo-surf scene is undoubtedly in Punta Hermosa, a summer beach community about 30 miles south of Lima, where surfing is virtually a religion. 
 The hourlong drive to Punta Hermosa provides a sobering look at the arid and impoverished landscape in this part of the country: brown hills devoid of vegetation and pocked with sad clusters of wooden shanties. The town itself doesn't look like much -- dusty concrete houses painted in bright greens, blues and reds in the hills below the four-lane Pan-American Highway. But the fuss is clear when you finally arrive at the beach: curling waves fan out in all directions like Neptune's block party. 
 Each break point presents a different challenge. There's Kon Tiki, which offers untamed waves so massive that it takes a strong arm even to paddle out to it; La Isla, where homegrown pros like Ms. Mulanovich and Gabriel Villaran can often be found; and Pico Alto, a brawny break with swells that can range up to 25 feet high. 
 ON a recent Saturday afternoon, the Copa Barena Professional Circuit surf competition was taking place in Punta Rocas, one of the most popular beaches in the area. The scene at the amateur competition resembled a South American version of Malibu, but wilder. Barena, a Honduran beer being introduced in Peru, had erected giant inflatable bottles that were flapping like Michelin men in the wind. A stoner reggae band drowned out the announcers. And waiters in baseball hats weaved through an obstacle course of sun chairs with plates of calamari and cans of Inca Kola, a yellow soda spiked with caffeine-laden guarana fruit.
 The surf champ Ms. Mulanovich, who is known as ''la gringa'' because of her fair skin and blond streaked hair, sat with an entourage near the judge's perch as she watched her younger brother, Matias, whiz over the lip and down the face of a meaty charging barrel. 
 ''Peru is the best preparation for a pro surfer because there are so many different varieties of breaks and conditions,'' said Ms. Mulanovich, who grew up in Punta Hermosa and recently bought a rock-star grade condo nearby with panoramic views of five surf breaks. ''It's much less crowded than in Hawaii and California, and even on the smallest day of the year it's never flat.''
 When her brother paddled in, the group piled into a caravan of S.U.V.'s and drove five minutes down the highway to San Bartolo for a teenage girl competition. It was sponsored by the cellphone company Movistar. ''It's like this all summer,'' Ms. Mulanovich said. ''Everybody wants to be a surf star now.'' 
 But despite the surf fever, Punta Hermosa remains off the radar for most tourists, probably because there's little reason to come unless you're really into surfing. There are no surf shops -- boards and gear must be rented or bought in Lima -- and only a handful of hotels like Luisfer's, a no-frills hostel where surfers bunk up, five to a room. Between sessions, guests can be seen doing yoga atop their board bags in the courtyard.
 Dining options are limited, too. The sidewalks are lined with cheerful stands that serve ceviche and seafood carpaccios that look amazing, but are far from stomach friendly. Ms. Mulanovich's boyfriend, a surfer named Scott from Los Angeles, had been holed up in her condo for weeks after getting salmonella poisoning from bad mayonnaise. 
 The enterprising and friendly locals, however, make up for the lack of infrastructure. The town's surf museum, for example, is actually the private home of an old-school surfer, Jose A. Schiaffino. I stumbled upon the 1950s surf shack one afternoon while walking back from the beach. Mr. Schiaffino wasn't home, which was too bad because I had heard he mixes a mean pisco sour, but his caretaker let me look around. 
 The living room wall was plastered with archival photos of the Waikiki Surf Club and the ceiling was covered with colorful boards donated by big name riders like Nat Young, Mark Foo and Ms. Mulanovich -- a makeshift hall of fame.
 Peru's love affair with surfing actually dates back to the 1940s, when the playboy socialite Carlos Dogny returned from Hawaii with a shiny wooden board given to him by Duke Kahanamoku, considered the godfather of modern surfing. In 1942, Mr. Dogny founded the elite Waikiki Surf Club in Miraflores, a ritzy suburb on the southern outskirts of Lima, where Peru's ruling families rode the swells and got tipsy in the clubhouse on pisco sours. (The club still employs ''board boys'' who rush to the water's edge to carry and wax members' boards when they're done with a session.) 
 The club placed Peru firmly on the international surf map and played host to the World Surfing Championships, which was won by a local big-wave rider, Felipe Pomar, in the 1960s. But by the 1970s, the sport's reputation sagged as it became associated with dropouts and druggies, and surfing largely lost it cachet. 
 About the same time, the country became marred by economic woes, political repression and terrorism. Between 1980 and the early '90s, the Maoist guerrilla group Shining Path waged war against Peruvian society, killing tens of thousands of peasants and small-town leaders, and turning Lima into a fiery battleground. 
 ''Back then there was a curfew at 1 a.m.,'' said Jose de Col, a pro surfer who quit the sport in the '80s to become an architect because there was little sponsorship money in Peru. ''We couldn't have parties. Blackouts and bombs were part of daily life.'' 
 Things began turning around and, in the last few years, Peru seems to have planted a 180-degree aerial. The country has stabilized politically under the new president, Alan Garcia, though soaring food prices have driven his popularity down. Despite high rates of poverty (almost half the nation lives below the poverty line), Peru's economy has grown steadily, providing a much-needed morale booster and, for surfers, an excuse to get back into the water. 
 After spending a day playing sand bunny in Punta Hermosa, and watching the competitions from the safety of my towel, I was itching for my own adrenaline rush. So the next morning, I hired a taxi and set out on an hourlong journey to Cerro Azul, a mellow break immortalized in a line from the Beach Boys' 1962 anthem, ''Surfin' Safari.'' 
 After maneuvering through four police checkpoints (shakedowns are common along the Pan-American Highway), we pulled up on a dirt road to the port town. Cerro Azul felt abandoned, like a Western ghost town, except for a few shiny condos and the lazy sounds of salsa lulling through the hot dusty air. The shoreline, however, buzzed with anticipation. True to its reputation, the break had a mellow but perky wave that rippled around a jagged point as though made in a water-park wave pool. I paddled out, staked my spot among the teens, moms and old timers, and caught a few rides before moving on to the next break down the coast.
 As much as I liked paddling along southern Peru, the word on the shore was that any surf safari must also include a visit to Mancora, a small fishing village in northern Peru near Ecuador. It enjoys an almost mythic reputation among surfers for its balmy water, endless sunshine and crowd-free breaks. ''Una paradiso!'' my new friends would say between sets. 
 But it didn't seem that way at first. I flew on Aerocondor, onboard a clunky plane that still had ashtrays in the arm rests, and landed in Talara, an industrial port city whose airport is now temporarily closed. The region, with a brown dirt terrain as monotonous as a broken record, is the center of Peru's oil industry. Giant rigs scar the landscape like mechanical mosquitoes and perfume the air with the fetid scent of raw petroleum. 
 After an hourlong taxi ride, I arrived in Mancora, which looked like a blink-of-an-eye frontier town until I wandered out to the beach. Nubile surfers in string bikinis lounged under palm trees sipping coconuts, taking turns paddling out into the crystal blue ocean. It felt like that secret spot in ''The Beach,'' the 2000 movie starring Leonardo DiCaprio, except it was not quite a secret. 
 Mancora has been transformed in recent years from a sleepy fishing village into a busy, international backpacker hub. After dark, the town's sole street turns into a total party, with flotillas of surfers, weekenders from Ecuador and girls in slinky tank tops getting tipsy at bars like Iguanas and Chill Out. There are also several amazing restaurants in town, serving the nouvelle Asian-Peruvian fusion known as novoandia. La Sirena, run by Juan Seminario Garay, a 28-year-old local surfer who studied at Le Cordon Bleu in Lima, serves dishes like causa maki, dollops of mashed potatoes filled with scallops mixed in a red and yellow pepper sauce.
 In the morning, the action moved to the beach, especially at the main surf break in front of the Hotel del Wawa, a small hotel and restaurant owned by the hunky surf pro Fernando Paraud, who is known simply as Wawa. ''Every day is like a weekend,'' said Wawa, who was holding court at his usual table. ''Except weekends are more crowded.'' 
 STILL, the restaurant was packed wall-to-wall on a recent Thursday afternoon with surfers waiting out the high-noon sun and low tides. Over delicate plates of smoked carpaccio and seared tuna steaks, they traded gossip on the day's best swells and near collisions in the lineup. Then, when the tide finally broke around 4 p.m., everyone put down their forks, grabbed their surfboards and headed back to the water in choreographed unison. 
 It felt like a scene from a Broadway musical, especially when cheers of ''Oy!'' ''Va!'' ''Ey!'' would wash over the crowd like the chorus of a reggaeton song.
 I followed them in. The waves were as gentle and as well-formed as the famously friendly breaks at San Onofre or Waikiki. And almost as jammed. Luckily there was a chain of hidden beaches just a hop away. 
 After bumming around Wawa for a couple of days, I hired a local surf guide nicknamed Pulpo to show me around. He drove me 10 miles in his teal-blue van to Los Organos, an abandoned oil town with a couple of new beachside hostels. 
 There were no more than a dozen other riders on the surf. I took my board into the water and waited for my wave. It didn't take long before I caught one that was head high with a defined peak that tapered off to the right into a long shoulder -- perfect for cutting and carving long arcs. 
 Pulpo seemed impressed because he took me 45 minutes farther south to Lobitos, a hard-to-find break tucked at the end of a ragged dirt road. There were oil pumps, rusty pipelines and crumbling military barracks, some of which had been taken over by squatters and turned into surfing hostels decorated with bumper stickers. I poked my head inside one: several blond French girls were having lunch with their dreadlocked Chilean boyfriends. 
 Eating would have to wait. We pulled up over the dirt and parked alongside the deserted beach. I pulled out my chunky 7-foot-6-inch rental board with trepidation. The beach looked like a small swatch of an industrial wasteland: a couple of oil barrels with flames flickering on top, and a few giant rigs on the horizon. But the waves, it turned out, had a perky, fun shape. Really fun, in fact. And the water was a seductive clear blue. Pulpo smiled. He had promised me a crowd-free break that was off the grid, and here it was. 
 I rode the swells for several hours, forgetting about the ominous oil barrels and, apparently, the time. Pulpo called me in. There was another spot up the road that was even better. 
 ON A SOUTH AMERICAN SURFIN' SAFARI 
 GETTING THERE
 Several airlines including Continental, American and LAN Airlines fly direct from New York area airports to Lima, starting at about $650 for travel next month, according to a recent online search. To get to Mancora in the north of Peru, fly from Lima to Piura on Aerocondor (www.aerocondor.com.pe; 51-1-614-6014; $244 round trip), and then take a two-and-a-half-hour taxi ride to Mancora (about $50). 
 Punta Hermosa
 WHERE TO STAY
 Casa Barco (Avenida Punta Hermosa, 340; 51-1-230-7081; www.casabarco.com/puntahermosa) is a modern but charming 25-room hotel with a swimming pool and views of the surf breaks. Doubles from $55. 
 Hard-core surf safarians bunk up at the no-frills hostel Luisfer Surf Camp (a block off the main beach, Calle 1 -- look for the concrete wall with the giant wave mural; 51-1-230-7280), which offers Polynesian-style decor and meal times based on the tides. Bunk rates are $16 a night and include three meals a day.
 WHERE TO EAT AND SHOP
 A lively evening scene can be found at Donde Luis (Frente la Playa Punta Hermosa), an Argentine-run cafe filled with antique furniture and surfers dressed up in their best flip-flops. Dinner, including delicious pizzas, salads and wine, about 50 sols (about $18.20 at 2.75 sols to the dollar).
 El Piloto (Panamerica Sur, Kilometer 138, San Luis; 51-1-284-4114) is a classic 1940s roadside restaurant with murals of bullfighters, bamboo ceilings and long tables of families and truck drivers sharing ceviche (55 sols) and the spicy river shrimp (also 55 sols.)
 The Kon-Tiki Surfboards Museum on the main beach in Punta Hermosa doubles as the private home of the surfer Jose A. Schiaffino. There's an impressive collection of vintage surfboards, archival photos and other memorabilia. 
 There are no surf shops in Punta Hermosa, so if you need gear try Klimax in Miraflores (Jose Gonzales, 488; 51-1-447-1685; www.klimaxsurf.com). It offers a good selection of locally made Boz wet suits and surfboards, including short boards designed by the champion surfer Gabriel Villaran, starting at 542 sols. 
 Mancora
 WHERE TO STAY
 The epicenter of the local surf scene is Del Wawa (Avenida Piura, Frente al Point; www.delwawa.com), a small hotel with an excellent beachside fusion restaurant and lots of hammocks. Surf lessons are $15 an hour or board rentals $5 an hour. Doubles start at $25. 
 An upscale alternative is the Sunset Hotel (Avenida Antigua Panamericana Norte, 196; www.hotelsunset.com.pe), a boutique hotel with six suites, a secluded beach and a romantic restaurant perched on a cliff. Doubles start at $73. 
 WHERE TO EAT AND SHOP
 La Sirena (Panamericana Norte, 316: 51-19-9811-5737) serves exquisite nouvelle Asian-Peruvian fusion, known as novoandia, in a little garden off the main drag. Dinner for two with wine, 108 sols.
 El Tuno (Panamerica Norte, 233; 51-19-9408-2410) is a bright orange Peruvian-Italian restaurant that features an accordion player and specialties like tuna tartare with shaved avocado and mango salsa (50 sols). 
 Soledad Surf Shop (Avenida Piura, 316) sells a full range of gear for men and women such as rash guards, flip-flops and waterproof sun block. 
 SURF TOURS AND GUIDES
 In the north of Peru, try booking Octopus Surf Tours based in Mancora (51-19-9400-5518; www.wavehunters.com/peru/Nperu.asp). Marco (Pulpo) Antonio Ravizza knows all the secret breaks and cevicherias: $895 for the week, including lodging, three meals a day and all gear.
 For lessons and guides in the south, near Lima and Punta, call the former national surf champion Luis Miguel (Magoo) de la Rosa (www.magoosurfperu.com; 51-19-9810-1988), who has the insider tips and water smarts. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOP LEFT: A surfer car, with boards and a sticker, parked in Punta Rocas near Punta Hermosa. TOP RIGHT: Decal solidarity with a South Beach, Miami, club at the Waikiki Surf Club in Lima. LEFT: Waikiki Surf Club members enjoy the view from the terrace and the beach. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSANA RAAB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. TR9)
 TOP: Fruit vendors and restaurants along the Pan-American Highway in Mancora, a northern Peru surfing destination. ABOVE: A dish of ceviche and accompaniments in a Punta Hermosa restaurant. RIGHT: Out on the water early in the morning in Punta Hermosa. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSANA RAAB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. TR8) MAP (pg. TR8) Map showing the coast of Lima, Peru. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); SURFING (90%); WATER SPORTS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); SOFT DRINKS (75%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); SOCCER (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) PERU (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



97 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 69 words

HEADLINE: Metrics: All of Inflation's Little Parts

BYLINE: By AMANDA COX

 BODY:
Each month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics gathers 84,000 prices in about 200 categories -- like gasoline, bananas, dresses and garbage collection -- to form the Consumer Price Index, one measure of inflation. It's among the statistics that the Federal Reserve considered when it cut interest rates on Wednesday.
 The categories are weighted according to an estimate of what the average American spends, as shown below. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Breakdown of inflationary price changes on everything ranging from food stuffs to gasoline to tools to rent. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Michael balzer, University of Konstanz (Germany)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); STATISTICS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); INTEREST RATES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



98 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; THE VOICE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: She'll Get It For You: Retail

BYLINE: As Told to ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
HER name may have the ring of heavenly virtue, but Faith Hope Consolo's stock in trade is earthly luxury. Ms. Consolo is the chairwoman for retail real estate at Prudential Douglas Elliman, and the city's highest-profile practitioner of the art of matching stores with storefronts.
 In Manhattan, where she does about 75 percent of her work, Ms. Consolo made her name by bringing luxury retailers to the city, often from abroad. Over the last two decades, she has helped turn the Flatiron district into a shopping area, bringing Ann Taylor, Sephora, Paul Smith and Zara, among others, to the neighborhood. She was a consultant to the New York State Economic Development Corporation in devising retail plans for Times Square, and represented the landlord in Toys ''R'' Us's lease on its 100,000-square-foot store on Broadway near 44th Street. 
 Ms. Consolo is a shrewd self-promoter: She has her own slogan (''You Need Faith'') and a newsletter (The Faith Report). This year alone, she has been quoted in the press nearly three dozen times. 
 As a 25-year veteran of the field, Ms. Consolo has a deep sense of how the vagaries of commercial real estate shape the city's neighborhoods, and she plays a critical if little-known role in that shaping.
 The typical broker, they walk down the street, they look for empty stores, and they call the landlords. But that's not how the great deals are made. The great deals are made by knowing how to watch a business. There are really signs when a business isn't doing well and the space will be available.
 Let's talk about the recent closing of Anne Klein. They opened this Madison Avenue store about a year ago. I noticed that the inventory in the store was very thin for a store that was on Madison Avenue across from Barneys. It should have been chock-full of merchandise. But they did nothing to reach for the customer, and the customer slipped through their fingers. 
 Doing retail is treacherous. You have to be in the store, you have to wait for the customer. The manager doesn't show up, it rains, nobody comes, you have a break-in.
 And there are entire genres that fail: one-shot, silly, silly trends. Cookie stores and yogurt stores. Generic mobile phone stores. Most of the frozen yogurt stores won't last -- it's cute, but people get tired of cute.
 As for banks, I'm not going to say it's over, but it's at a hush. In the last five years, you had all these new banks like Commerce and Washington Mutual, and each had to be bigger than the other. First it was 2,000 square feet, then it was 3, then it was 5. Last year I was doing 10,000- and 15,000-foot banks for Chase, by grouping up some nondescript stores and putting in banks.
 Sometime I did banks right across the street from where they already were, just to protect from other banks coming in. You would not believe the rents; it was mind-boggling. 
 The community wasn't thrilled with the banks. We got a lot of calls and a lot of letters from people living in the neighborhoods that said: ''We don't want another bank. Why do we have so many banks? I don't have that much money, I don't need a bank on four corners.'' 
 But I feel it's like another trend, and we drive with the trend. You have to remember, this is New York. The landlords pay us, so we let them make the decision. We bring them all the offers -- the apparel, the bank, the restaurant -- and they make the decision. You're going to see that drugstores are the new banks. 
 Regrets? I have no regrets. I have to look forward, I can't look back. I'm a trader. I don't want to use the word regret -- but it upsets me that you never make the deals you think you're going to make, and you make the deals you don't think you're going to make. I want to make that Cartier deal, and then I end up making 10 bank deals. I can't get too excited about that.
 I'm working on a new portfolio now that was just handed to me: 15 buildings and 75 stores, all over Harlem. These are existing buildings in renovation, and we're putting in better shops and services. 
 What people don't know about Harlem is that certain areas have great demographics, great untapped spending. They want better restaurants, better food markets, just better everything. They say: ''Faith, bring us a better tailor, bring us a better food market. Just bring us the same as they have in Midtown.''
 It's going to be a resurgence of mom-and-pop stores, but a better version. I'm going to go into every residential neighborhood, and I'm going to canvass great-looking retailers who are the butcher, the baker, the great dry cleaner, the great card store. And some very good restaurants. I'm already talking to Danny Meyer about going there with a cafe. And I'm working on several different high-profile national and international designers. One of my retailers makes fragrances named after neighborhoods, like Chelsea and Wall Street and whatever. She wants to be there, so I told her to create a fragrance that's called ''Harlem.'' And she did.
 I can't tell you who the landlord is. They told me they're afraid of the Harlem Chamber of Commerce. You know, Old Harlem hates New Harlem. But I understand. I go to the community meetings, I went to the chamber, and I listen to them. 
 Old Harlem, they think that New Harlem just brings money and no culture. They consider themselves very immersed in culture. They do have a lot of beautiful buildings, they have a lot of history. Not more history than other parts of the city, but you have to treat them that way. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 4 about Faith Hope Consolo, the chairwoman for retail real estate at Prudential Douglas Elliman, referred incorrectly to her involvement in some real estate deals in Manhattan. She was not involved in the openings of Zara and Ann Taylor stores in the Flatiron district. And although Ms. Consolo did, at one point, have an agreement to represent the owners of a building on Broadway where Toys ''R'' Us opened a store in 2001, she did not locate or negotiate with Toys ''R'' Us on the landlord's behalf. In 2000, Ms. Consolo's firm sued the landlord arguing that it deserved the commission for the deal. The case was settled before trial.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); RETAILERS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (72%); RETAIL BAKERIES (72%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (72%); ICE CREAM (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (63%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



99 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times at the Golden Door

 BODY:
In these tough economic times, millions of Latino immigrants have stopped sending money to their home countries, according to a survey released Wednesday. That is bad news for a lot of people. 
 The survey, by the Inter-American Development Bank, found that only half of 18.9 million Latino immigrants in the United States send money to relatives abroad. Two years ago, 73 percent did. Some countries saw remittances fall after years of growth: money wired to Mexico declined nearly 3 percent for the first three months of this year from the same period last year, the first drop since Mexico started tracking transfers in 1995.
 The survey found that the sagging economy and loss of low-wage jobs were mostly to blame, particularly the downturn in the housing industry, but that crackdowns on illegal immigration also played a role.
 The report was full of bad news for immigrants, legal and not. Of the 5,000 Latinos surveyed -- about half citizens and legal residents, and half undocumented immigrants -- 81 percent said it was harder to find a good-paying job, and just under a third said they were thinking of leaving the country.
 There are people on the restrictionist side of the immigration debate who will cheer the news, arguing for more of whatever is causing it. Thanks to people like them, the nation's de facto immigration policy is to try to make life untenable for illegal immigrants, elevating their fear to shake them loose from the United States.
 Nobody should think of the decline in remittances, however, as anything but unfortunate. Immigrant workers are not just vital to the American economy, their money transfers are a critical bulwark against poverty for millions of people south of the border. Cutting off that lifeline will lead to more misery in some of the poorest parts of the hemisphere -- and it will feed the desperation that sends more migrants to the United States.
 If there was anything encouraging in the survey, it was the reaffirmation that immigrants, ever resourceful, are also fundamentally hopeful. Many reported in focus groups that they were ready to take lower-paying work or extra jobs to make ends meet. While almost 40 percent said they had seen their incomes fall, 69 percent said that their financial situations were ''good'' or ''excellent'' compared with life back home. 
 Tough enforcement may succeed in cutting off opportunity so severely that even some of these hard-working optimists uproot themselves and return home in search of a better life. But if that happens, those exiles may well pass a stream of compatriots heading north for the same reason.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); FOCUS GROUPS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%)

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



100 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE CHATTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 160 words

 BODY:
''There's been a revolution, a fullblown revolution.'' Steve Shore, co-founder of Steve & Barry's, which sells celebritybranded clothes at prices that are absurdly inexpensive (often $8.98). 
 ''In France, when you can't afford a baguette anymore, you know you're in trouble.'' Anne-Laure Renard, a teacher living in Les Ulis, south of Paris, who has been squeezed by runaway price increases in France.
 ''The rubber band is stretched really far.'' W. Scott Tinsman Jr., a fertilizer dealer in Davenport, Iowa, on a fertilizer shortage that is being felt worldwide.
 ''This is not a fluke or a technical quirk. It's fundamental.'' John E. Silvia, chief economist at Wachovia, on a sharp pullback in consumer spending growth in the first quarter.
 ''The era of the truck-based, large S.U.V.'s is over.'' Michael Jackson, chief executive of the retailer AutoNation. Soaring gas prices have turned the steady migration of Americans to smaller cars into a stampede.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RETAILERS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING (70%); FERTILIZERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: AUTONATION INC (57%)

TICKER: AN (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441110 NEW CAR DEALERS (57%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (57%)

PERSON: MIKE JACKSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (71%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (54%) IOWA, USA (68%) FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



101 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
SLIDESHOW: SCHOOLS SOW SEEDS
 Of a Moderate Islam
 A group of Turks has established schools in 80 countries intended to foster a moderate and flexible vision of Islam, and the teachers in them say they stress multi-culturalism and universal 
 values.
 nytimes.com/world
 VIDEO: GUMSHOES, AND SUITS
 Detectives are snappy dressers, but they have some specific needs -- like sneaker-soled shoes, wider suit shoulders, 
 special padding to hide the 
 bulge of a gun. In this video, 
 dapper detectives show off the suits and footwear that make them the best-dressed members of the N.Y.P.D.
 nytimes.com/metro
 SLIDESHOW: AUCTION SEASON'S
 Highs and Lows
 Despite increasing anxiety about the economy, sales estimates at auction houses are more robust than ever. A slide show highlights some of the notable pieces up for auction. ''Ball of Twine,'' by Roy Lichtenstein, is expected to fetch $14 million to $18 million at Christie's.
 nytimes.com/arts
 SLIDESHOW: SPRING COATS
 Bill Cunningham narrates an audio slide show about how sharp businesswomen can look in their spring coats.
 nytimes.com/fashion
 STRANGE CITY CALLED HOME
 Grand Theft Auto IV tries passionately to recreate the landscape of NewYork. But one longtime New Yorker finds that the world depicted on screen is like no place he has ever been.
 nytimes.com/thecity
 SLIDESHOW: OUT OF A BROWN TRUCK,
 And Into a Black M5
 When he is not driving a lumbering delivery truck for U.P.S., Wayne DaCosta of Long Island slides behind the wheel of his 2002 BMW M5. In an audio slide show, Mr. DaCosta talks about why he loves his car.
 nytimes.com/autos
 ARTSBEAT AT JAZZFEST
 The Times's Jon Pareles and Nate Chinen are reporting from the jazz festival in New Orleans.
 nytimes.com/artsbeat
 INTERACTIVE: THE DERBY IN DETAIL
 An interactive graphic recaps the 134th running of the Kentucky Derby, detailing six key points on the track at Churchill Downs.
 nytimes.com/sports

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN MICHAELS/COLUMBIA PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (90%); RELIGION (90%); AUCTIONS (74%); ART DEALERS (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); JAZZ & BLUES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



102 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE ISLAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Salvadorans, Building Their Own Cultural Bridge

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BRENTWOOD 

 BODY:
 DIMAS ESCOBAR came to Long Island from El Salvador 22 years ago and got a job working for a fish wholesaler, trimming and boning 2,000 pounds of fish a day for $300 a week.
 Hungrily ambitious, he sought a weekend job as well, and hanging out among the burgeoning colony of Salvadorans in the Brentwood area, he spied a fish market owned by two Italian-Americans. Mr. Escobar showed off his masterly carving skills, and the owners hired him on the spot. In short order, he increased their earnings by saving the fish heads they had been throwing away -- Salvadorans like to use them in soups -- and selling them five to a bag.
 The tale of immigrant pluck and resourcefulness did not stop there. Mr. Escobar's bonhomie drew scores of Hispanic customers. Volume became so frenetic that the aging owners, wearied of the business, asked Mr. Escobar if he had enough money to buy it. He leveraged $17,000 of his and his brother's savings and a loan from the owners and bought the fish store for $76,000 in 1989 -- three years after arriving from El Salvador. 
 Today, he owns the building that houses the fish store and has converted the two flanking shops into a deli and a restaurant. The three-pronged business advertises itself as ''Pine Aire Fish and Deli: Que Rica Comida'' -- Delicious Food. 
 ''We feel like we are at home here,'' Mr. Escobar said of the Brentwood area. ''With all the food and the factories for jobs, we feel like back home.''
 Yet Mr. Escobar, 45 and trimly built, chose not to live in Brentwood. He moved next door to Bay Shore in 1997 so his four children, two of whom are now in college, could attend schools he regards as superior to those here. The schools in Brentwood -- Long Island's largest school district -- are crowded with almost 16,000 students, an astonishing number for a hamlet that the 2000 census put at a total population of 54,000.
 The discrepancy, officials here say, is a result of thousands of undocumented people, but the district must still cope with the fallout.
 Mr. Escobar's dual approach to Brentwood -- pleased to do business in the area but avoiding its problems -- echoes some of the difficulties faced by Brentwood itself. The Salvadoran community, once virtually clandestine, is flourishing, growing so quickly and self-assuredly that it has long overtaken the number of Puerto Ricans, who once made up the largest Puerto Rican locale outside New York City but have been moving to more affluent suburbs or retiring to Florida. But the local infrastructure -- of schools, jobs, housing, emergency-room care and tax collection -- is straining under the immigrant influx.
 Salvadorans own 40 restaurants and a large share of the shops along Suffolk Avenue and other main drags that provide money-wiring and travel services. 
 A telling footnote is that many restaurants serve not only reliables like pupusas -- tortillas stuffed with pork and cheese -- but also chicken francese. Why an Italian dish? According to Santiago Reyes, owner of the pioneering Comalapa Restaurant, he learned how to cook chicken francese two decades ago as a struggling illegal immigrant working at Mario, an Italian dining temple in Hauppauge, and his Salvadoran rivals are emulating him.
 Salvadorans and other Central Americans stage what is perhaps Long Island's largest parade, with more than 60,000 revelers, to mark Salvadoran independence. Soccer teams like one Mr. Escobar plays for challenge teams representing immigrants from Peru, Guatemala and Honduras. The number of Salvadorans is responsible for El Salvador's consulate on Suffolk Avenue, Long Island's only diplomatic mission. Salvadorans have been joining in sizable numbers longtime civic groups like the Lions Club. 
 But the Brentwood landscape is far from unruffled. Brentwood is one of six school districts added this year to the state's list of substandard performers. Part of the reason for the system's problems, said Miriam Garcia, executive director of Adalante of Suffolk County, a social service agency, is that some classes have too many students and, in the upper grades, many are burdened with older students who arrive as immigrants after having attended school for just a few years. About 68 percent of Brentwood's students are Hispanic, and during a three-year period that ended Jan. 31, the district registered 2,237 new immigrant children.
 Aurelia L. Henriquez, who is the assistant superintendent for elementary education on a new management team in the district, said the schools had taken steps to keep classroom size at tolerable limits, including hiring extra teachers to work with smaller groups alongside the classroom teacher. She attributed the district's substandard performance to the state's decision to require testing of immigrants after one year. 
 ''In a district where the number of new entrants is so high, it seems unfair to test children in English when they've only been in this country for 12 months,'' she said.
 The mortgage crisis has also hit Brentwood hard because 60 percent of its mortgages were subprime, according to an analysis of data compiled by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council. Many houses are occupied illegally by three or more families or have apartments with groups of single laborers, local officials say. With the economy in what some see as a recession, those tenants sometimes cannot pay the rents that support the mortgage, so owners are forsaking their houses. 
 Nadia Marin-Molina, director of the Workplace Project in Hempstead, said that Salvadoran workers are often cheated out of their rightful wages and that the flagging economy is resulting in fewer construction jobs and more layoffs everywhere. 
 Puerto Rican politicians like Ricardo Montano, a county legislator, have helped Salvadorans tangle with Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, over his effort to require the county's more than 15,000 licensed contractors to prove their immigrant employees are legally permitted to work. 
 ''Puerto Ricans recognize the negative impact of open borders,'' Mr. Montano said. ''I don't want to live next door to a house with 15 people and pay taxes for overcrowded schools.'' But he said he thought illegal immigration must be solved with a new national immigration policy, not by exploiting anti-immigrant sentiment. 
 Salvadorans started migrating here in the 1980s, fleeing El Salvador's civil war. They bypassed clamorous New York City for the more familiar wooded landscape of Long Island and settled in Brentwood because there was already a Spanish-speaking framework of bodegas, travel agencies and other services that had been spawned by Puerto Ricans. They had started settling in Brentwood in the 1950s to take kitchen and cleaning jobs at the mammoth Pilgrim Psychiatric Center.
 Salvadorans found the availability of jobs in garment and pharmaceutical factories, construction and landscaping irresistible, and the influx of Salvadorans surged once more after two devastating earthquakes in their country in early 2001. 
 Mr. Reyes, 52, who is also president of a Salvadoran Chamber of Commerce, says he thinks Salvadorans arriving today have it much easier than he did 28 years ago because they are entering a community that already has many Salvadorans. He remembers with a sad-eyed chuckle how a ''coyote'' costing $600 shepherded him over the Mexican border and he made his way to Brentwood, when it had few Salvadorans. 
 He supported himself and his family as a dishwasher but lost out on four of his oldest daughter's childhood years because she remained behind in El Salvador. Knowing no one with a car, he would often lug his laundry for a mile to a Laundromat. In winter, there was the added insult of being splattered by slush from a passing car.
 ''Now,'' he said of recent Salvadoran immigrants, ''there is someone to drive them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUCCESS STORY: Dimas Escobar at his Pine Aire Fish and Deli. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PET STORES & SUPPLIES (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (78%); FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); CHILDREN (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (67%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); CENSUS (64%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EL SALVADOR (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



103 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; SUNDAY SERIAL THE FUNNY PAGES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 2537 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Corbett's Request: Chapter 1: An Unexpected Call

BYLINE: By COLIN HARRISON. 
Colin Harrison is the author of six novels, including ''The Havana Room,'' ''Afterburn'' and ''Bodies Electric.'' His new book is ''The Finder.''

 BODY:
Chapter 1: An Unexpected Call
 I've been asked to do a lot of difficult and unpleasant things over the years, and I've performed these tasks more or less without complaint, which is a bit unusual, given the line of work I'm in. So maybe certain recent events in my life shouldn't have upset me. Shouldn't have knocked me back a step. But they did. I'm a little older now. The gray is really coming in, though my wife, Susan, says she likes it. In New York City, guys like me end up accumulating dings and bruises and scrapes like the banged-up delivery vans you see in Chinatown. Battered, dented, suspensions shot. Engines work but not at high speed. Runs, for now. Lot of mileage. That's me, especially now, after what just happened. 
 It all began the second Friday in April, a sloppy, cold day. People had finally stopped discussing Eliot Spitzer's many complex urges. Oil had just hit $112 a barrel, but no one was shocked. People were getting worked up about the Olympics in China. The stock market, so recently up after being so recently down, was down again, and everyone I knew was hoping that the Fed's quasi-legal voodoo might actually work, so that we wouldn't all be sucked into a giant, cheap-dollared vortex of recession, inflation and coast-to-coast foreclosures. Then again, many of the folks in my firm had been slyly loading up on gold for months and no doubt counted themselves smart for betting against the American economy. Me, I'd done nothing to prepare for the fiscal apocalypse. All I wanted was to go home and have dinner with Susan. We usually check in with each other at 4 p.m., to see what the plan is, and that was when Anna Hewes called me from the other side of our floor.
 ''George, I just spoke to Mrs. Corbett.''
 ''The original Mrs. Corbett?''
 ''The only one I know. I'm coming over to talk to you.''
 Mrs. Corbett's late husband, Wilson Corbett, was the founder of our firm, back in the '60s. Anna Hewes was Corbett's old secretary -- and I mean old as in ''former'' but also as in ''long past retirement age.'' Anna spends her day in the personnel office now; they ginned up a job for her when it was clear she was slowing down. But she still arrives every day, makes the coffee on her floor, sits in for the receptionist on her breaks, that kind of thing. Back in the day she sat in the red-hot center of the universe, when Wilson Corbett was personally running 30 cases at once, sometimes on two phones, working the London bosses, the Chicago investigators, all of them. The guy was a pistol, buckets of energy. He had Anna, and she had two younger women working for her, just trying to keep up.
 I really liked the guy, admired him. And I owed him a lot. It was Wilson Corbett who hired me when I was a kid, pulled me out of the muddy water of the Queens D.A.'s office back in the '80s. I've been here ever since too. After he retired, he showed up a few times a year, trying to get a whiff of the good old days, but he was slipping fast. His visits dribbled down to just the Christmas party, when he'd shake hands with the people who remembered him, and then he finally went off and died, as we all do. The whole firm attended the funeral. No one had much discussed Mrs. Corbett, figuring she had plenty of money, a couple of sons -- Wall Street guys, as I remembered -- and would do whatever old ladies who live on Park Avenue do with themselves. 
 Now Anna Hewes poked her head in my office. She takes great care with her appearance. Makeup tasteful, dye job perfect. 
 ''What's Mrs. Corbett want?'' I asked. 
 ''She says please tell George Young to come up to her apartment at 5 o'clock today.''
 ''That was it?''
 ''If I knew more I'd tell you.''
 ''I'm surprised she even knows my name.''
 At this Anna Hewes gave me a little extra look, but then glanced down, as if she were keeping something to herself. I didn't give it much thought, though; Anna's been at the firm so long that she's gone a little bat-wango. 
 ''You have the address?''
 Anna handed me a piece of paper.
 ''Five o'clock.''
 ''You have any idea?''
 ''She didn't say much, except that her health isn't good.''
 I returned to the work on my desk. I had a lot to do. I always have a lot to do, and generally I get it done in the time there is to do it. The firm is busy, carries about 160 cases at any one moment. Not bad for a small shop. Just a few partners. Plus a handful of career pack mules like me, and the young hotshots who don't stay long once they realize not much changes at the place. Why? Because Patton, Corbett & Strode has a very specialized clientele. One client, actually, a huge, multinational insurance company headquartered in one of the major European capitals. It has a famous old name, but I'm not going to say what it is. Everyone has heard of it, but this company is our client, and we maintain their confidentiality. People hear the company's name and think, What's a few hundred thousand, a million, for a company like that? It's exactly what it sounds like: money. We protect their money. 
 Our client's business is simple. Some people can't get insurance. Why? They once filed for bankruptcy, they have credit problems or they own companies in high-risk industries. Or maybe they have funny friends. Maybe a criminal record. Or their nationality is a matter of interpretation. In any case, they can't get coverage for their businesses -- for fire, theft, natural disasters, embezzlement, liability, etc. Yet they must have insurance. Somebody insists they have coverage. The bank that wrote them the giant mortgage. Governmental regulators. Business partners. They can't get insurance through the regular domestic carriers, the mainstream brokers, so they go to high-premium coverage. They pay extra -- a lot extra. The previously unnamed company headquartered in a major European capital charges them an enormous premium, all based on the actuarial probability that these businessmen will make a claim. It can be a very lucrative business. Most people don't realize that the insurance industry has more than 200 years' worth of data about what human beings do with themselves. 
 Wilson Corbett himself used to say as much. ''People think insurance companies are just mountains of abstractions,'' he once told me. ''But all insurance companies do is quantify faulty human behavior. They know a very regular percentage of people fall off ladders, crash their cars and burn down their businesses. They know who is likely to cheat and lie and steal.''
 The business may be simple on the front end, but it's not on the back. That's where we come in. When our client receives an American insurance claim it doesn't like, that smells funny, we get involved. I'm not talking fender benders or slip-and-fall. I mean fraud, arson, records destruction. We start asking a lot of questions. How did the warehouse burn down? What was in it? Can you show us the receipts to prove the inventory? We always ask for these answers on paper, mailed to us. Why? Because if a claimant lies in his answers and uses the U.S. mail to do so, that's mail fraud. When we point out this little fact, it often has a motivating effect on the claimant. The work can be exciting, and a little nasty. Oh, yeah. 
 This was the business that Wilson Corbett pulled me into all those years ago, and now, I supposed, I really did have to go see what his widow wanted.
 I slipped out at 4:30, not a bad time to get a cab uptown from Rockefeller Center, and by 5 was standing in the marble lobby of Mrs. Corbett's apartment building. The bellman was a piece of fossilized Irish timber, and his white hair and stiff uniform made him look like a retired admiral. 
 He was hesitant, inspecting me. ''Mrs. Corbett, you say?'' 
 I nodded. Maybe this meant she didn't get many visitors.
 He dialed. Listened. ''Yes, Mrs. -- yes, of course, right away.''
 The bellman set the phone down, nodded. 
 ''Now, can you do me a wee favor?''
 ''What?''
 ''Keep an eye out for candles. She's been lighting them lately and forgetting. We've had a couple of incidents.'' 
 ''And if I spot any?''
 ''Just let me know on the way out. I go up myself to blow them out.''
 A moment later I rang her bell. The door opened, and a thin, white-haired woman stood there, not smiling, not shaking my hand. I recognized her, though it had been years.
 ''So you came.''
 Mrs. Corbett slowly led me back to the living room, a cave of pillows. The place had that old-person smell, and there were candles, flames flickering. 
 She sat back in an immense sofa.
 ''My husband always said you were one of his smartest, and so I'm depending on him, you see.''
 ''I liked Mr. Corbett a great deal.'' I was glad to say this. ''He built the firm.''
 She settled in, preparing herself. Her ankles were swollen in the way of older people. ''I'm going to try to tell everything,'' she began. ''I'm 81 years old. My son Roger died a few months ago.''
 ''I'm sorry to hear that. I don't think the firm got the news.''
 Mrs. Corbett nodded in a way that meant she preferred not to become emotional. ''He was 51 years old, divorced. There had been some business problems. He'd been married 23 years. I like Roger's wife a great deal, and she's been very good to me, like a daughter. Did you ever meet him?''
 ''Maybe, if he came to any of the firm parties. ''
 ''Anyway, Roger was killed in an accident. A plain old accident. I don't want to describe it to you, but all the information is in that green envelope.'' She pointed to it on the sideboard. ''He'd just come out of a bar. He'd been sitting there alone for almost four hours. That much I do know. He was not a heavy drinker, absolutely not someone who spent a lot of time in such places.''
 ''Right.'' 
 Mrs. Corbett was looking at me intently now. ''Mr. Young, I am due to have surgery for a very leaky valve in my heart in six weeks. They say that if I don't have the surgery, I'll be dead in about three or four months. So I'm going to do what the doctors tell me. But the operation is almost never done at my age. An old body doesn't take shocks too well. They give me a 40 percent chance of surviving.''
 Bad odds, but she had to take them.
 ''The operation was only done two times last year in Manhattan on someone my age. One was to that nasty what's-his-name, very rich. My husband used to play golf with him; he just remarried again. Well, he lived, unfortunately. The other man, a fine fellow, went kaput on the table.''
 ''So either you die sometime this summer for sure or you have the operation and have a 40 percent chance to live for a while.''
 ''Maybe even as long as five years. I'll get to see my grandchildren move along. Now, I called you because I want to know something before I have the operation.'' She paused, looking at her candles. ''I want to know why my son sat in that bar for four hours.'' Her voice held frustration, even anger. ''I want to know what Roger was doing.''
 ''You want to know why he died?''
 ''No. I know the accident was an accident, but it happened just after he came out of the bar. He was in that bar for a reason.'' 
 ''You want me to figure this out?''
 She nodded.
 The city was crawling with retired N.Y.P.D. detectives trying to pay child support, augment their 20-years-and-out pensions. ''Why not hire someone who -- ?''
 ''I did, Mr. Young. He was highly recommended. He got some of the information that's in that green envelope. But he couldn't do it. He said he tried but it couldn't be done.''
 ''I don't know why I -- ''
 ''My husband thought you were very capable. Said you were tenacious. I stay in touch with Anna Hewes. I know who's doing what there, you might be surprised to know.''
 I doubted Anna knew more than she heard around the coffee machine on her floor, but then again, that might be enough. 
 ''I realize that your time is valuable,'' Mrs. Corbett went on, ''and that this might take quite a bit of it, so I'm more than willing to pay whatever you think will be -- ''
 I was already shaking my head. ''If I help you I won't accept any money. We can call it repaying an old debt of gratitude to Mr. Corbett, O.K.?''
 She seemed pleased to hear this. I, meanwhile, felt pretty glum. ''That envelope has some other things about Roger. His address, things like that. Some papers and keys.''
 I had a lot of questions, but Mrs. Corbett pushed herself up. She handed me the large envelope. 
 ''I'll need to think about this for a few days,'' I said. But we both knew I was going to do it. 
 On my way out in the lobby, I saw the admiral. ''Six candles,'' I told him. ''Five in the living room, one in the hall.''
 He touched the brim of his cap. ''Much obliged.''
 I took a cab across town and along the way called Susan, who was already home, and told her about my visit with Mrs. Corbett. But she didn't sound as if she was listening to me. She did, however, sound out of breath. ''What're you doing?'' I asked.
 ''I'm too irritated even to tell you.''
 Susan works in the compliance division of a huge New York bank that also shall go nameless. You know this bank; it has branches on every other corner. Being a naturally suspicious person, Susan has done well at her job. We live on the West Side, with our daughter, Rachel, lucky to have a nice four-bedroom. We bought in '90, back when the real-estate agents were living on rice and beans. Sometime in the mid-'90s they starting getting fat. Then they exploded. The city goes through these cycles, and if you live here long enough you can sense them coming and going. See how the money heats up the city, makes people crazy. 
 I arrived home, threw my coat on the table. ''Yanks and Boston tonight,'' I called.
 ''Not good enough,'' Susan said. ''I want to see Joba myself.''
 The Yankees were indeed in Boston that night, with Chien-Ming Wang on the mound. The game would be on television. But that wouldn't cut it for Susan. She wanted to see Joba Chamberlain, the young Yankee fireballer who came on so strong at the end of last season, in person, and preferably from field-level seats. 
 I promised I'd get tickets to the first home game against Boston the coming week. Which I hadn't yet done, perhaps because I was still mourning the loss of Joe Torre as manager, and no amount of happy talk was going to make me feel better anytime soon. You follow a team, you develop these intense relationships. The Yankees brought back Mariano, Pettitte, Posada and A-Rod, fine. But I missed Torre.
 I thought I heard the sound of a vacuum cleaner. Then nothing. I went to the bedroom, where Susan was inspecting our obese cat, which lay belly up, purring. 
 ''What?'' I asked.
 ''Fleas, that's what.'' Susan frowned at me as if it were my fault.
 ''You see any?''
 ''No, but I can feel them. I know they're there.''
 She amuses me, my wife, the bank compliance officer, and she knows it. Which, of course, amuses her. But now she wasn't smiling. ''Like this Mrs. Corbett. I've been thinking about it.'' She pointed at the green envelope in my hand. ''She's not telling you something, George. Asking you sweetly to do a favor for a little old lady. Ridiculous! There's something wrong there, but you just can't see it yet.'' 
 Next week: George discovers what's in the green envelope. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID LEVINTHAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); RECESSION (78%); FORECLOSURE (64%); RETIREMENT AGE (60%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



104 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Bigger Condos, North of Littler Italy

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
IN the last 80 years, Little Italy in Lower Manhattan has lost more than 90 percent of its Italian-American population, according to community leaders, and shrunk by two-thirds. 
 But the masonry walk-ups from that era have remained largely intact. Today, they are packed mostly in the blocks bounded by East Houston, Mulberry and Kenmare Streets and the Bowery, in a microneighborhood called NoLIta, for ''north of Little Italy.''
 Developers ascribe that preserved-in-amber quality to the large number of rent-regulated apartments in NoLIta. Indeed, its ZIP code, 10012, which according to the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal has 340 rent-regulated buildings, has in recent years seen relatively little construction activity. 
 By contrast, 10001, which includes Chelsea, and which has just 127 rent-regulated buildings, is now laced with high-rises, developers point out.
 But NoLIta's construction-free era may be ending. A 12-story condo rising at 290 Mulberry, at East Houston, offers nine three-bedrooms, with walnut floors, Duravit bathroom fixtures and concrete kitchen counters.
 All but the penthouse are priced from $2.5 million to $3.5 million, and since sales began last month, two contracts have gone out, says Trevor Stahelski, a principal of California-based Cardinal Real Estate Investments, the developer. In Mr. Stahelski's view, the $28 million project ends many frustrating years of searching for a site. ''It's an accomplishment to finally be part of this neighborhood,'' he said.
 A quirk in a 1977 Little Italy zoning district allows Mr. Stahelski's building to stand about 145 feet tall. Most other new structures in the neighborhood must top out around 75 feet, or seven stories; this restriction, brokers say, has been another factor checking redevelopment.
 Still, new buildings are creeping in. One, 211 Elizabeth Street, squeezes 15 condo units into a lot at Prince Street where a tenement once stood.
 The condo, co-developed by Bob Siegel of Ghent Realty Services and Peter Manning, will have mostly one- and two-bedrooms, from 780 square feet to 1,800 square feet; all will have wood-burning fireplaces. Units are priced from $1.55 million to $3.9 million, and three have sold since April, said Mary Ellen Cashman, a senior vice president with Stribling Marketing Associates; residents are to move in by year's end.
 Of course, when an address isn't full of rent-restricted tenants, it is an easier target for developers. One such conversion -- 11 Spring Street, at Elizabeth -- is a case in point. A sandy-brick former stable with arched windows, it was most recently owned by Lachlan Murdoch, the media executive, who bought it from John Simpson, a set designer. 
 In July, the five-story structure will open with three condos, starting at 2,085 square feet, and priced from $6.7 million to $17.95 million. 
 None have yet sold, said Caroline Cummings of the Manhattan-based Elias Cummings Development, which converted it. ''It was nice not to have to evict people,'' she said.
 While many longtime NoLIta residents have hung on, gentrification has had an effect.
 Robert Parisi, 28, grew up atop a restaurant that his family has owned on Mott Street since 1910. But five years ago, a rent increase in his nonregulated unit forced him to decamp for Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, he said.
 Still, from a business perspective, the neighborhood's turnover could have benefits. ''We might be able to charge more now'' for sausage-and-pepper sandwiches, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SKYLINE ASCENT: A rendering of 290 Mulberry, one of several rare new condos in NoLIta.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAPERFARM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (75%); ZONING (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



105 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Praxis Makes Perfect

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In an age when knowledge is associated with information, technology and speculation, Lewis Hyde's penetrating review of Richard Sennett's new book, ''The Craftsman'' (April 6), raises the timely question of the relationship between thinking and the actual making of things. The more we believe success is derived from information rather than the mixing of our hands and labor with concrete things, the more we distance ourselves from the very essence of what it is to be human. In this story, Hyde does not bring up the obvious philosopher who dealt with this idea in the wake of the Enlightenment: Karl Marx. This is unsurprising given the current political climate, but at the philosophical level, Marx's idea of the intimate link between thought and the making of things -- as developed in the ''Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts of 1844'' and expressed by the concept of praxis -- must be addressed for the sake of intellectual honesty. 
 Diego von Vacano College Station, Tex. The writer is an assistant professor of political science at Texas A & M University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



106 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Food and Free Trade

 BODY:
Food and Free Trade
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Freer Trade Could Fill the World's Rice Bowl'' (Economic View, April 27): 
 The suggestion that free trade can solve the fast-escalating food crisis ignores the tenets of food sovereignty (a people's right to define its own food system and to compete in the market) and food security (the measure of one's access to enough food). 
 By encouraging free trade, we support the centralization of agricultural production and discourage regional producers from protecting their land and knowledge -- and, in doing so, feeding their communities. 
 Protecting the ability of peoples to produce their own food is essential to the human race. There has never been a better reason to buy ''locally.''
 Sara B. Franklin
 Amherst, Mass., April 27
 To the Editor:
 The column says the flow of agricultural products from poor countries to rich ones is ''producing more wealth'' for those poor countries. But we have a global food system that extracts the wealth out of the world's poor rural communities to fill the stomachs -- and now the gas tanks -- of the wealthy. 
 This system has stripped poor countries of the ability to feed themselves, and of the mechanisms to protect their populations against the fluctuations of global commodity markets. This crisis may just now be hitting headlines, but it is years in the making, and ''free'' trade policies are at its core. 
 Christina M. Schiavoni
 Manhattan, April 28
 The writer is the director of the Global Movements Program at WHY (World Hunger Year).
 Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD SECURITY (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (79%); AGRICULTURE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (74%); WRITERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



107 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Even the Insured Feel the Strain Of Health Costs

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON and MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
The economic slowdown has swelled the ranks of people without health insurance. But now it is also threatening millions of people who have insurance but find that the coverage is too limited or that they cannot afford their own share of medical costs.
 Many of the 158 million people covered by employer health insurance are struggling to meet medical expenses that are much higher than they used to be -- often because of some combination of higher premiums, less extensive coverage, and bigger out-of-pocket deductibles and co-payments. 
 With medical costs soaring, the coverage many people have may not adequately protect them from the financial shock of an emergency room visit or a major surgery. For some, even routine doctor visits might now take a back seat to basic expenses like food and gasoline.
 ''It just keeps eating into people's income,'' said James Corbin, a former union official who works for the local utility in Tucson. 
 Mr. Corbin said that under their employer's health plan, he and his co-workers are now obliged to pay up to $4,000 of their families' annual medical bills, on top of about $1,600 a year in premiums. Five years ago, they paid no premiums and were responsible for only about $2,000 of their families' medical bills. 
 ''That's a big jump,'' Mr. Corbin said. ''You've just lost a month's pay.''
 Already, many doctors say, the soft economy is making some insured people hesitant to get care they need, reluctant to spend a $50 co-payment for an office visit. Parents ''are waiting longer to bring in their children,'' said Dr. Richard Lander, a pediatrician in Livingston, N.J. ''They say, 'The kid isn't that sick; her temperature is only 102.' '' 
 The problem of affording health care is most acute for people with no insurance, a group expected to soon exceed 48 million, but those with insurance say they too are feeling the pain.
 Since the recession of 2001, the employee's average cost of an annual health care premium for family coverage has nearly doubled -- to $3,300, up from $1,800 -- while incomes have come nowhere close to keeping up. Factor in other out-of-pocket medical costs, and the portion of the average American household's income that goes toward health care has risen about 12 percent, according to the consulting and accounting firm Deloitte, and is now approaching one-fifth of the average household's spending. 
 In a recent survey by Deloitte's health research center, only 7 percent of people said they felt financially prepared for their future health care needs.
 Shirley Giarde of Walla Walla, Wash., was not prepared when her husband, Raymond, suddenly developed congestive heart failure last year and needed a pacemaker and defibrillator. Because his job did not provide health benefits, she has covered them both through a policy for the self-employed, which she obtained as the proprietor of a bridal and formal-wear store, the Purple Parasol. 
 But when Raymond had his medical problems, Ms. Giarde discovered that her insurance would cover only $22,000, leaving them with about $100,000 in unpaid hospital bills. 
 Even though the hospital agreed to reduce that debt to about $50,000, Ms. Giarde is still struggling to pay it -- in part because the poor economy has meant slumping sales at the Purple Parasol. Her husband, now disabled and unable to work, will not qualify for Medicare for another year, and she cannot afford the $758 a month it would cost to enroll him in a state-run insurance plan for individuals who cannot find private insurance.
 She recently refinanced her car, a 2002 Toyota Highlander, to help pay for her husband's heart medicines, which cost some $400 a month.
 Experts say that too often for the underinsured, coverage can seem like health insurance in name only -- adequate only as long as they have no medical problems. 
 ''There's a real shift in the burden of health care to people who happen to be sick,'' said Paul B. Ginsburg, the president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a research group in Washington. 
 Companies and policy makers have yet to focus on what the faltering economy means for employees' medical care, said Helen Darling, president of the National Business Group on Health, a Washington association of about 200 large employers.
 ''It's a bad-news situation when an individual or household has to pay out-of-pocket three, four or five times as much for their health plan as they would have at the time of the last recession,'' she said. ''Americans have been giving their pay raise to the health care system.'' 
 Sage Holben, a 62-year-old library technician with diabetes who is active in her local union in St. Paul, says that in 2003 union members agreed to a two-year freeze on wages to protect their health care coverage. But for the union, which will begin talks on the next contract this fall, it may be difficult to continue that trade-off, Ms. Holben said. ''It's at the point where we're losing, anyway,'' she said.
 ''I live paycheck to paycheck,'' said Ms. Holben, who makes close to $40,000 a year at Metropolitan State University.
 When she took the job in 1999, she says, the health benefits required no co-payments for doctor visits. Now, her out-of-pocket cost per visit is $25, and she pays $38 a month for her diabetes medicine. She has not been to the eye doctor in two years, even though eye exams are crucial for people with diabetes and she knows she needs new glasses. Nor does she monitor her blood sugar as regularly as she should because of the cost of the supplies.
 ''It's not an extravagant expense,'' she said. ''It just adds up.'' And it comes atop the increasing cost of utilities, gasoline and food -- and the few hundred dollars of repairs her 1994 Chevrolet Cavalier needs. 
 Many employers do recognize that their workers are struggling financially even as they are asking them to pick up more of their health-care bills.
 ''It makes the work we have to do even more challenging,'' said Anne Silverman, the vice president in charge of benefits in North America for the publishing company Reed Elsevier. ''Employees are being stretched in terms of their disposable income.'' 
 Even so, more companies may see themselves as having little choice but to require employees to pay even more of their health expenses, said Ted Nussbaum, a benefits consultant at the firm Watson Wyatt Worldwide. And when a weak economy undermines job security, he said, workers may simply have to accept reduced benefits. 
 While Mr. Nussbaum and other consultants say it is unlikely that significant numbers of employers will simply drop coverage for their workers, the weak economy could prompt more of them to push for so-called consumer-driven plans. Such plans tend to offset lower premiums with higher annual deductibles.
 And while these plans often allow employees to put pre-tax savings into special health care accounts, they typically end up forcing the worker to assume a bigger share of overall medical costs. About six million people are now enrolled in these medical plans. 
 Among employers, the hardest pressed may be small businesses. Their insurance premiums tend to be proportionately higher than ones paid by large employers, because small companies have little bargaining clout with insurers. 
 Health costs are ''burying small business,'' said Mike Roach, who owns a small clothing store in Portland, Ore. He recently testified on health coverage at a Senate hearing led by Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon.
 Last year, Mr. Roach paid about $27,000 in health premiums for his eight employees. ''It's a huge chunkof change,'' he said, noting that he was forced to raise his employees' yearly deductible by 50 percent, to $750. 
 Around the nation, some workers are simply priced out of their employee health plans. 
 After Brian Falacienski of Milton, Fla., was laid off last year from his job as a surveyor for a construction company, he found another position. But the cost of his new health plan -- $800 a month for coverage with a $1,000 annual deductible -- was beyond the means of Mr. Falacienski, 38, who is married and has a 2-year-old daughter. 
 His wife, Marianne, started researching individual insurance policies and was able to find policies for her husband and daughter offering basic, if minimal, coverage, costing $161 a month for father and daughter. But Ms. Falacienski, 32, who has arthritis and the severe digestive disorder Crohn's disease, is now uninsured. Because of her conditions, she said, four major insurers rejected her. 
 ''I even applied for Medicaid,'' she said, ''but I wasn't low-income enough.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 4 about the growing difficulty that people with health insurance have affording medical care misstated the co-payment that one patient, Sage Holben, must pay at each visit to her doctor. After checking her records, Ms. Holben says her co-payment is $22, not the $25 she originally stated. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: When Marianne Falacienski's husband started a new job, the family could not afford the health plan. Ms. Falacienski, 32, found individual coverage only for him and their daughter, Gabrielle.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KARENA CAWTHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg.36) CHART: The Mounting Burden for Health Care: Spending on health care, which takes up more of consumers' income than housing, food or clothing, has risen siginificantly since 2000. As the economy slows and medical costs continue to rise, millions of people may be unable to afford care.(Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Deloitte Center for Health Solutions Analysis) Chart details line graph for SHARE OF DISPOSABLE PERSONAL INCOME SPENT ON. (pg.36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); RECESSION (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); PEDIATRICS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

COMPANY: DELOITTE LLP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (75%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



108 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: China's Unfair Trade

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 A very important word was missing from ''Is Trade the Problem?'' (editorial, April 27): China. No thoughtful discussion about the impact of trade on workers, consumers and America's economic future can take place without recognition of the role that China plays in today's global marketplace. 
 While many factors affect employment and wages in the United States, it's wrong to minimize or dismiss the role of trade, especially with China. Our lopsided trade deficit with Beijing -- $256 billion last year alone -- highlights its market-distorting practices, including subsidies, dumping, currency manipulation, counterfeiting, and lax labor and environmental standards.
 These unfair trade practices have cost 1.8 million American jobs since 2001, according to an Economic Policy Institute study. American consumers pay in other ways: unsafe and uninspected food, toys and medication, and higher local taxes when factories close. Until we insist that China honor its commitments, American workers will continue to lose.
 Scott Paul Executive Director Alliance for American Manufacturing Washington, April 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); COUNTERFEITING (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



109 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2161 words

HEADLINE: Prepping Robots for the O.R.

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
WHAT do you call a surgeon who operates without scalpels, stitching tools or a powerful headlamp to light the patient's insides? A better doctor, according to a growing number of surgeons who prefer to hand over much of the blood-and-guts portion of their work to medical robots controlled from computer consoles. 
 Many urologists performing prostate surgery view the precise, tremor-free movements of a robot as the best way to spare nerves crucial to bladder control and sexual potency. A robot's ability to deftly handle small tools may lead to a less invasive procedure and faster recovery for a patient. Robots also can protect surgeons from physical stress and exposure to X-rays that may force them into premature retirement.
 A generation ago, the debate in medicine was whether robotics would ever play a role. Today, robots are a fast-growing, diversifying $1 billion segment of the medical device industry. And Wall Street has just two questions for the industry: How far is this going, and how fast? 
 There are no simple answers, of course, but it is remarkable how often Frederic H. Moll comes up in any discussion.
 Dr. Moll, 56, is a soft-spoken man who can look uncomfortable on stage. Yet his role in founding Intuitive Surgical, the company that now dominates the field, and his current involvement with three other robotics companies, has kept him in the sights of investors, health care providers and fellow entrepreneurs. 
 He's now best known as chief executive of Hansen Medical, a publicly traded robotics company focused on minimally invasive cardiac care. But he's also an investor in and a board member of Mako Surgical, an orthopedics robotics company that recently went public, and he is a co-founder and chairman of Restoration Robotics, a start-up company focused on cosmetic surgery. 
 ''Anyone who meets Fred will remember him,'' says Maurice R. Ferre, the chief executive of Mako, which makes a drill that shuts off if a knee surgeon starts removing too much bone. ''He will cut you off to ask technical questions and drives right to what's important. A lot of people are looking at the Mako story because Fred's involved.''
 Despite Wall Street's growing fondness for medical robotics companies, plenty of health care providers and insurers are cautious. They're looking for more evidence that robotics improves outcomes for patients at a cost hospitals can absorb. Many still wonder whether it is more about marketing than medical progress. 
 Winifred Hayes, chief executive of Hayes Inc., a health care technology consulting firm in Lansdale, Pa., says that most clinical data doesn't support contentions that patients fare better with robotic surgery. Most hospitals and clinics are losing money or making poor returns on their robots, she says. 
 ''The real story is that this is a technology that has been disseminated fairly widely prematurely,'' she says.
 Even so, interest in robotics remains strong, and the arc of Dr. Moll's own career has landed him at the intersection of tussles between business and medicine. 
 His parents were both pediatricians, and he sailed through medical school. But during his surgical residency at the Virginia Mason Medical Center in Seattle in the early 1980s, he found the ailments of patients less compelling than the shortcomings of the tools that surgeons used to treat them.
 ''I was struck by the size of the incision and injury created just to get inside the body,'' Dr. Moll says. ''It felt antiquated.'' 
 So he obtained a leave of absence to study whether the long slender cutting tools he had seen gynecologists use in sterilization surgery on women could be adapted to gall bladder removal.
 ''We saved the spot for 10 years, but he never came back,'' said Dr. John A. Ryan Jr., then head of the surgical training at Virginia Mason. 
 Indeed, Dr. Moll had left Seattle for Silicon Valley, where he spent the next decade creating and selling two medical equipment businesses while getting a graduate degree in management at Stanford. He walked away from the two deals with about $7.5 million. That was modest by the standards of, say, Paul Allen and Bill Gates, the Microsoft founders who were his schoolmates at the exclusive Lakeside School in Seattle in the early 1970s, but Dr. Moll had found his calling.
 He says his immersion in the entrepreneurial life cost him his marriage; he remembers once telling his wife he was so busy he couldn't talk to her for a month. But it also set him on a course to become a pioneer in the emerging field of medical robotics.
 ROBOTS revolutionized manufacturing during the 1980s, on the back of advances in computing, motion controls and software design. 
 Visionaries like Dr. Richard M. Satava, who oversaw federally funded medical robotics research at the time, predicted that robots would eventually be able to operate as precisely as the world's greatest surgeons and far more tirelessly, perhaps even in remote locations, through satellite links. 
 A project that Dr. Satava's group financed to build a remotely controlled medical robot for the battlefield caught Dr. Moll's eye in 1994. 
 Dr. Moll saw scant commercial potential for long-distance surgery, but he became convinced that the technology, being developed by SRI International, a nonprofit contract research firm in Palo Alto, Calif., could be adapted to make routine surgery much less invasive in the hands of civilian surgeons. 
 He took the idea to his employer, Guidant, a medical device company. Guidant decided that robotic surgery was too futuristic and too risky, so Dr. Moll rounded up backers, resigned, and in 1995, founded Intuitive Surgical.
 A competitor, Computer Motion, had a head start using technology developed for the space program. But Intuitive Surgical had an experienced management team headed by Lonnie M. Smith. Mr. Smith was recruited from Hillenbrand Industries, where he oversaw health care companies, to become chief executive in 1997, leaving Dr. Moll to concentrate on strategic development. 
 Intuitive went public in 2000 at $9 a share. (Dr. Moll's stake at the time was worth roughly $13.5 million, and he still owns a significant number of shares.) In 2003, it acquired Computer Motion, eliminating both patent wars and the competing design. Since then, soaring sales and profits have laid to rest any Wall Street doubts that robots could be commercially successful.
 The company earned $144.5 million last year on sales of $600.8 million. Based on first-quarter results that were better than expected, Intuitive forecasts that sales will grow 42 percent this year, to $853.2 million. Its stock, which traded at $42.42 three years ago, closed Friday at $290.03 a share.
 The company prospered by proving that robots could deftly handle rigid surgical tools like scalpels and sewing needles through small incisions in a patient's skin. In prostate surgery, it is rapidly becoming unusual for a urologist to operate without using one of Intuitive's da Vinci robots, which sell for $1.3 million, on average. Each also generates hundreds of thousands of dollars more in annual revenue from service contracts and attachments that must be replaced after each procedure. Intuitive is now marketing the da Vinci to other specialists, including gynecologists and heart surgeons.
 Intuitive's success has not put to rest questions about how many hospitals and clinics can afford robots. The da Vinci and the CyberKnife, a precision radiation robot from Accuray to treat tumors, are featured in hospital ads to attract patients, but it is hard for hospitals to get extra reimbursement from insurers for using them. 
 However, hospitals that have been leaders in adopting robotic technology say they are content to just break even for now, because the investment is partly about attracting surgeons who want to be leaders in research and training.
 ''If you are looking at the future, it's hard to envision a hospital not offering robotics,'' said Robert Glenning, chief financial officer at the Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey, which has bought five da Vinci's and has a sixth on loan from Intuitive Surgical that is used to train visiting doctors.
 DR. MOLL left Intuitive in 2002 to pursue a more ambitious concept at Hansen Medical: robots that manipulate the tips of thin, flexible catheters that doctors insert deep in the heart. If he succeeds, the Sensei robotic systems from Hansen, costing about $675,000, may become the go-to tools for treating many circulatory problems.
 Relations between the two companies were rocky in the first year because of disagreements over the breadth of Intuitive's patents. Eventually, the two signed an intellectual property agreement that gives Intuitive a 3 percent royalty on Hansen sales. With Intuitive expanding into cardiac care, the two may eventually collide in some procedures. 
 Doctors who use catheters generally gain access to the circulatory system through a small incision in the major veins that run through the thigh or arm. Both the makers of rigid tools and the catheter companies are competing in another fast-developing field of ''scarless'' therapy involving operations performed through the urinary tract and other natural openings. 
 Dr. Moll is betting that flexible tools like those that work with the Sensei will dominate as this movement matures. He took a team of four Hansen employees to India last summer for a series of surgeries testing whether kidney stones could be removed by using a robotic catheter. Dr. Inderbir S. Gill, a urologist from the Cleveland Clinic who led the research, said that Dr. Moll had followed every case for four days. 
 ''He was at the console like a mother hen even though he wasn't allowed to touch it,'' said Dr. Gill, who received stock in Hansen for work on the research and is planning a clinical trial. 
 Like Intuitive in its early days, Hansen faces a competitor that got an earlier start. Stereotaxis, based in St. Louis, makes the Niobe, a robot that generates magnetic fields around the patient. By manipulating the magnetic field from Niobe's computer, doctors can manage the movements inside the patient of its customized magnetic catheters.
 The Sensei manipulates a Hansen catheter called Artisan, a hollow sheath through which doctors can deploy smaller catheters. Sensei and Artisan were approved by federal regulators last May for use with catheters that map electrical activity in the heart. While mapping is currently the only job for which Hansen can actively market the Sensei, the robot's real focus is to combine mapping with minimally invasive treatments to halt electrical short circuits in the heart that cause it to beat abnormally.
 Fans include Dr. Davendra Mehta, chief arrhythmia specialist at Mount Sinai Medical Center, who last fall became the first doctor in New York City to order a Sensei. ''This is like power steering versus conventional steering,'' said Dr. Mehta during a recent procedure.
 Using the robot also lets Dr. Mehta avoid spending up to five hours a day wearing a lead vest to limit his exposure to the X-rays when monitoring the catheter's location in a patient. 
 THE potential appeal of the Sensei may be obvious. But with just 23 systems installed at the end of March, the competition from Stereotaxis and doubts among many health care providers about whether robots are worth the expense, Dr. Moll has plenty of obstacles ahead. 
 Still, he and his team members took Hansen public in November 2006, and received approval from regulators in Europe and the United States to market the Sensei. In April, Hansen raised $39.4 million in a secondary stock offering despite Wall Street's gloomy outlook on the economy. Hansen also has an agreement with St. Jude Medical, the heart device company that is a leader in 3-D heart mapping systems, for co-marketing of technologies.
 Dr. Moll said Hansen, based in Mountain View, Calif., should become profitable by the end of next year, two and a half years sooner than Intuitive crossed that threshold. Hansen's volatile stock, which hit a peak of $39.32 in October before tumbling to $13.48 in March, now trades at $18.54 a share after the company reported better-than-expected first-quarter results on Thursday. Hansen sold eight new robots in the quarter, producing revenue of $6.2 million, and operating losses narrowed. 
 Even while juggling all of this, Dr. Moll is serving as chairman of Restoration Robotics, a start-up he has financed that aims to apply robotics to hair replacement surgeries for bald men.
 Dr. Moll says robotics will ultimately advance on still other fronts, largely because it can help doctors of varying ability perform at the level of the world's top surgeons. 
 ''The public has no idea of the extent of difference between top surgeons and bad ones,'' he said. ''Robots are good at going where they are supposed to, remembering where they are and stopping when required.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Struck by the potential applications to medicine, Frederic H. Moll founded his first robotics company in 1995. The field is taking off, some say prematurely. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (92%); ROBOTICS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICAL ROBOTICS (89%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); UROLOGY (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); MINIMALLY INVASIVE SURGERY (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (73%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (72%); PROSTATE DISEASE (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STARTUPS (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (50%)

COMPANY: INTUITIVE SURGICAL INC (55%); MAKO SURGICAL CORP (53%)

TICKER: ISRG (NASDAQ) (55%); MAKO (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



110 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: The Case For a Newer Deal

BYLINE: By ALAN S. BLINDER. 
Alan S. Blinder is a professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. He has advised many Democratic politicians.

 BODY:
PART of the New Deal was a new financial deal. The shameful shenanigans leading up to the 1929 stock market crash and the frightening wave of bank failures during the Depression led directly to the creation of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
 As we emerge from this, the worst financial crisis since the 1930s, a New Financial Deal may follow. If so, what should some of the reforms be? 
 A warning to laissez-faire-minded readers: The following is mostly about the dreaded ''R'' word -- regulation. But I'm afraid that we need more of that, starting in the mortgage market. 
 An inordinate share of the dodgiest mortgages granted in recent years originated outside the banking system. They were marketed aggressively, sometimes unscrupulously, by mortgage brokers who were effectively unregulated; we have now lived to regret that arrangement. The need for a federal mortgage regulator -- including a suitability standard for mortgage brokers -- is painfully obvious.
 Next, we should resist calls to scrap the ''originate to distribute'' model, wherein banks originate mortgages, which are then packaged into mortgage pools and turned into mortgage-backed securities that are sold to investors around the world. This seemingly convoluted model has given the United States the world's broadest, deepest, most liquid mortgage markets. And that, in turn, has meant lower mortgage interest rates and more homeownership. These are gains worth preserving.
 But the model needs some nips and tucks. A far less radical, though still regulatory, approach would require both originating banks and securitizers to retain some fractional ownership of each mortgage pool. Keeping some ''skin in the game'' should accomplish two things: make the banks and securitizers more attentive to the creditworthiness of the underlying mortgages, and reduce the tendency to play ''hot potato'' with mortgage-backed securities.
 And while we're on the subject of M.B.S., we must end the regulatory fiction that off-balance-sheet entities like conduits and S.I.V.'s are unrelated to their parent banks. (S.I.V. stands for structured investment vehicle, if you must know, but please don't ask me the difference between it and a conduit.) Since last summer, we have seen one financial giant after another brought to its knees by losses that originated off balance sheet.
 What's the solution? Take Shakespeare's advice and kill all the S.I.V.'s? Probably not, though many will die of natural causes. These financial oddities were invented to exploit the regulatory fiction just mentioned. If you buy the premise that assets held off balance sheet pose no risks to their parent companies, then banks should not be forced to hold capital against them. But if you buy that, you may also be interested in a famous bridge connecting Brooklyn to Manhattan. The remedy here is simple: Apply appropriate capital charges to off-balance-sheet assets.
 That brings us to leverage. After all, high leverage means owning a lot of assets with only a little capital. This is where something fundamental changed on March 16. Before that day, only banks had access to the Fed's discount window; broker-dealers took large risks without a safety net. But everything changed when the Federal Reserve became the lender of last resort to selected securities dealers. Because securities firms are now under the Fed's protective umbrella, they must start operating as safely and soundly as banks. That means both closer supervision and less leverage.
 How much less? You may recall that Bear Stearns ended its life with leverage of around 33 to 1, meaning that just 3 cents of capital stood behind each dollar of assets. That won't do any longer. Leverage of 10 or 12 to 1 is more typical for a bank. We should all take a deep breath here, because sharply reducing the leverage of securities firms, to bring it close to that of banks, will be a major change in the financial landscape. It will, for example, substantially reduce the profitability of investment houses and, therefore, reduce their scale. But that's the price you pay for access to a publicly financed safety net.
 Next come ratings agencies, whose recent performance has drawn criticism. The good news is that they are making good-faith efforts at change. They are improving their analytics, and guarding against conflicts of interest by hiring ombudsmen and submitting to independent third-party reviews. We should applaud and encourage all that. The bad news is that they face an acute incentive problem when they get paid by the issuers of the very securities they rate.
 What to do? The third-party reviews should help. My Princeton colleague Dilip Abreu suggests paying ratings agencies with some of the securities they rate, which they would then have to hold for a while. Robert Pozen, head of MFS Investment Management, wants independent investors in the conduits to hire the agencies instead. Another idea would have a public body, like the S.E.C., hire the agencies, paying the bills with fees levied on issuers. If you have a better idea, write your legislators.
 LAST, but certainly not least, is something that the United States cannot do on its own. Everyone knows we live in a world of giant multinational financial institutions, huge cross-border flows of capital and increasingly globalized markets. Such an environment demands ever closer international cooperation and coordination among the world's major financial regulators. But today's level of international cooperation is wholly inadequate to the need. Perhaps the current worldwide financial crisis will finally persuade the world's financial regulators that lip service is not enough. At least we can hope.
 Finally, let's be clear about the purposes of all these New Financial Deal reforms. They would not banish speculative bubbles from the planet. After all, there have been bubbles for as long as there have been speculative markets. But with each bursting bubble, new flaws in the system are exposed. Like a good roofer after a soaking rainstorm, we should patch the leaks we see now, knowing full well that more leaks will spring up in the future. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); SECURITIZATION (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



111 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2103 words

HEADLINE: Coveting Thy Neighbor's Condo

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
BOTOX. The iPod. Arugula. Each in its own way ushered in an era of heightened expectations -- for brow lines, personal music players and salad courses, respectively. 
 Then there is New York City's recent condominium boom: Its in-your-face ubiquity and fantasy-minded marketing have raised the bar for apartment seekers exposed to an excess of spa bathrooms, Zen gardens and Boffi kitchens. That's fine for those willing to pay new-construction prices and wait up to a year or two for the keys. 
 But buyers lacking patience or money are finding their tastes have gotten more expensive, as apartments that might have thrilled them five years ago have come to resemble throwbacks to an age of portable CD players. 
 In other words, said one real estate agent frustrated by her frustrated clients, it can be hard to shop at Bloomingdale's after visiting Barneys. 
 ''What happens is buyers go to new construction and see the health club, the Pilates and yoga classes, the swimming pools, the libraries, the meditation rooms -- along with the oversized bathrooms and the high ceilings,'' said Kathryn T. Higgins, an associate broker at DJK Residential. ''They can't afford that and the rational part of them knows that, but the emotional part of them hasn't accepted it. It makes them disappointed and envious and influences their attitude toward the older apartments and buildings.'' 
 These buyers are angry on a lot of levels, Ms. Higgins said, and they hold it against the seller by negotiating harder and simply being more selective about what to bid on in the first place. 
 Just ask Peter Sicilia, a 37-year-old renter in Park Slope, Brooklyn, who is torn between new and used. Since last summer, he and his broker, David Austin of Halstead Property, have been touring two-bedroom apartments of every vintage in Brooklyn's brownstone neighborhoods.
 ''The bar has absolutely been raised by new construction,'' said Mr. Sicilia, whose kitchen consciousness has ascended to the point that he won't even look at resales that can't accommodate a new-condo-style kitchen. ''You just can't compare it to resales.''
 ''A huge yoga room doesn't necessarily appeal to me,'' said Mr. Sicilia, ''but I do like it when some careful planning and interior design has gone into a unit -- like a granite countertop in a thought-out kitchen as opposed to just slapping a stove in the middle of the room, which is what I see on the resale side.'' He is willing to spend up to $750,000, including any renovations that he might have to make. 
 The economic slowdown has certainly helped create more of a buyer's market in New York, giving home shoppers the chance now to be choosier.
 Yet some brokers say it's not just the prevailing gloom that is making buyers more skittish and hard-driving. 
 ''Their eyes have been trained differently,'' said Sherry Matays, a senior vice president at the Corcoran Group, of buyers exposed to new construction. ''They feel something's being stolen from them, even though they can't afford it. So if they're going to live without a gym, a pool, radiant heat on the bathroom floors or whatever, they want to know the sacrifice is worthwhile and they're getting more space for their money.''
 These days, it can be hard to find buyers untouched by the new construction ethos. The number of new Manhattan condos available has risen over the last five years, to one-third of the total unsold inventory today from 15 percent in 2003, according to Miller Samuel, a Manhattan appraisal firm.
 Most, if not all, buyers kick off their searches by trolling new developments online or window-shopping at sales centers. By the time they start working with a broker, it is, in a sense, too late. Their paradigms have been upgraded.
 ''As the old line goes, once you've been to Paris, it's hard to go back to the farm,'' said Grant McCracken, a cultural anthropologist affiliated with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the author of eight books on consumer culture. 
 ''Once our choice set has been expanded to include things that we never dreamed of that are gloriously better than what we have, it's very tough for us to be content with the things that used to give us pleasure. And in Manhattan, where people have always had to kind of hold their noses and learn to live with constrained circumstances, I guess this is almost a natural impatience waiting to happen.''
 Ms. Higgins of DJK ticked off a few of the telltale signs of new construction envy.
 ''When people used to say, 'Does it have any outdoor space,' they were generally talking about a terrace,'' she said. ''Now they mean a common garden or Zen meditation space. They want to go do their yoga or tai chi outside and they want to know why doesn't the building have some sort of space where they can do this? I'm ready to dig them a Zen garden. Please. I had one buyer who said, 'This one has a garden, but the other one had a garden with a waterfall.'
 ''Or, we're standing in a prewar building and they're in the lobby looking around. And I say, 'What are you looking for?' They say, 'Does it have a library,' like in some of the newer buildings that have a common reading room with a faux fireplace.'' 
 Inside the apartments, buyers influenced by new construction are feeling a number of other painful absences, none of which make their hearts grow fonder.
 One of the biggest voids is where the washer-dryer ought to be. 
 ''Anything that's been built in the last 10 to 15 years has a washer-dryer, so giving up on one is really one of the biggest difficulties for people,'' said Joan Sacks, an associate broker at Stribling & Associates. ''I have one client who lived on the Upper East Side for 20 years without a washer-dryer in her apartment. We started looking at new condos as well as established buildings and as soon as she saw the washer-dryer in the new units she said, 'Oh, that is something I absolutely have to have.' '' Ms. Sacks's client bought a new condo in Chelsea with en suite laundry.
 Buyers looking at resales in buildings built before five or so years ago are increasingly minding the absence of central air-conditioning, tall ceilings and expansive double-glazed soundproof windows. They are also expecting a lot more from kitchens and bathrooms.
 ''A kitchen with '80s cabinets is a deal breaker,'' said Darren Sukenik, an executive vice president for luxury sales at Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''Everybody wants to think of a Boffi or Dada kitchen even if it's not.''
 And compared with the new-condo ''spa'' bathroom (typically replete with double sinks, glass shower, soaking tub and gorgeous finishes), earlier versions can appear almost cruelly stunted.
 ''The small prewar bathroom used to be charming, and now it's just a small bathroom that's going to cost $50,000 to blow out,'' Ms. Higgins said. 
 Jan Boyle, a lifelong renter shopping for a Manhattan apartment, can pinpoint the moment her standards shifted.
 While visiting friends in Harlem last October, Ms. Boyle paid an impromptu visit to a newly built condominium at 50 West 127th Street. 
 ''There was a limestone facade on the outside and mahogany tilt-and-turn windows and full marble bathrooms from floor to ceiling that were very spalike,'' said Ms. Boyle, 49, a marketing consultant, recalling her kid-in-a-candy-store reaction. ''It was beautifully finished and the fitness center was brand new with Bang & Olufsen speakers wired throughout.''
 And just like that, she said, ''I got caught up in this new construction thing.''
 Working with Robert Cabrera, a senior vice president at Halstead Property, she began touring new condos in Harlem and the financial district. She hasn't yet made up her mind between new and old, but said the resales she has seen suffer dreadfully by comparison.
 In addition to having proletarian bathrooms and communal laundry rooms, ''they're just dreary,'' Ms. Boyle said, ''and even if they're renovated, I feel like you'd need to redo it anyway.'' 
 Too frequently, she said, sellers have spent ''a gazillion dollars on some mosaic weirdness tile, and they've put down this ugly floor they've also spent a gazillion dollars on, and they think it's a redone apartment and they're passing along the cost.''
 Indeed, brokers say, new construction envy is prompting buyers like Ms. Boyle to recoil from renovations that fall short of the new-condo aesthetic. Buyers are also increasing the amount of money they deem necessary to bring a resale closer to new-condo status. 
 Ms. Matays counsels her buyers to figure $300 per square foot for a basic ''upper end'' renovation, all the way to $450 per square foot for a gut job that would essentially mimic new construction. Using those figures, a 1,200-square-foot two-bedroom priced at $1.5 million might cost another $360,000 to $540,000 to redo in style.
 Ms. Matays said that the yearning for ''hybrid'' apartments (resales renovated in the new-condo fashion) has become so widespread that when listing an apartment, she no longer touts renovations that fall short of the new baseline. 
 ''You can't get away with that anymore,'' she said. ''I'm selling a prewar apartment with original 1920s bathrooms and I told them short of being done up to the standard of a high-end condo --which can still be traditional as long as it has really high-end finishes -- it's better to keep the bathrooms like they are.''
 Just who should foot the bill for making new-condo-style improvements to a resale is a matter of some contention. 
 ''I've had people buy into postwars with perfectly nice bathrooms that have maybe been done in 1987 when the building was new,'' Ms. Higgins said, adding ''They're looking at the sellers saying we need a new bathroom and it's going to cost $50,000. This is where it gets very, very tense.'' 
 ''I sort of drag the buyer away and say that's a perfectly good bathroom -- they've priced the apartment with that bathroom, not with your vision,'' she said.
 Buyers don't necessarily agree. 
 Tom Julian, a 40-something homeowner in Battery Park City, started looking a year ago for a two-bedroom two-bath apartment in the neighborhood, with the help of Pierre Moran, an agent at DJK Residential. Though he is considering both new construction and resales, Mr. Julian, who owns a one-bedroom condo, is keenly cognizant of the ways in which resales fail to measure up.
 ''I envy the central air,'' he said. ''All of the new buildings have it. And granite and stone and stylish wood choices, whether it be bamboo or elm -- parquet floors are over.'' 
 And if the choice was between a $2 million new condo and a $1.5 million resale that needed a $500,000 renovation, Mr. Julian said, he would opt for new. 
 He has lots of company. When it comes to buying older apartments, buyers increasingly ''put in a lowish offer to see if they can make a deal, and if they can't, they'll go back to new construction,'' Mr. Cabrera said. 
 Brokers try their best to recalibrate what they consider unrealistic expectations.
 ''We'll take the best three or four properties that meet their budget, and then we'll show them a couple of things that specifically meet their criteria but not their budget,'' said Michael Signet, the director of sales at Bond New York. ''Then we sit them down over a cup of coffee and say it's your decision whether to increase your budget or come off your wish list a little bit. A lot of times they'll say, 'We'll wait another six months until we can afford something we really want.' That's not what we want to hear, but we'd rather hear it the first day than after working with them for six months.''
 Rather than feel embittered about being unable to afford it, some buyers become empowered by their brush with new development. 
 ''We didn't visit a lot of new construction,'' said Alan Iny, 31, a management consultant, who went shopping for an apartment with his wife, Roberta Griff, two years ago. ''We reasonably quickly realized from a price and timing perspective that we didn't want to go there if possible -- we had kept hearing horror stories about people who were delayed by two years.'' 
 But the universe of possibilities persuaded the couple not to compromise on their own smaller list. With the help of their broker, Julie Friedman of Bellmarc Realty, Mr. Iny and Ms. Griff persevered until they found a two-bedroom two-bath prewar apartment in the West 60s that had been freshly renovated a la new.
 ''I knew it would conceivably be possible to find something with a doorman, gym, terrace, modern amenities, etc.,'' Mr. Iny said, ''so I wasn't really willing to settle for something that didn't.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Open Kitchens
Lobby Lounges
Outdoor Spaces
Great Views
On-Site Gyms
Marble Bathrooms(PHOTOGRAPHS BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES
TOP LEFT BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES
MIDDLE RIGHT BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE1)
EXPECTATIONS: Kathryn T. Higgins of DJK Residential said 'outdoor space' now means a common garden or a spot for Zen meditation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
STILL SEARCHING: Peter Sicilia, above right, has been looking for apartments in Brooklyn for months with his broker, David Austin. Tom Julian, in the foreground at left, is hunting in Battery Park City with his agent, Pierre Moran.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (90%); YOGA (87%); MEDITATION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (67%); CD & DVD DRIVES (54%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



112 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Empty Nest Egg

BYLINE: By JEFF MADRICK. 
Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge magazine and a senior fellow at the Schwartz Center for Economic Policy Analysis, the New School.

 BODY:
WHILE AMERICA AGED 
 How Pension Debts Ruined General Motors, Stopped the NYC Subways, Bankrupted San Diego, and Loom as the Next Financial Crisis. 
 By Roger Lowenstein. 
 274 pp. The Penguin Press. $25.95. 
 The future of Americans' pensions has not become a serious campaign issue so far this election season. It's hard to get retirement issues to the front of the line when the nation faces soaring health care costs, global warming, $100-a-barrel oil, a likely recession and collapsing housing prices. There is also the little matter of the worst credit crisis since the 1930s.
 That is too bad, because, as Roger Lowenstein nicely illustrates in ''While America Aged,'' the country ''is sitting on a retirement time bomb.'' He is not talking about Social Security, which, he writes, is among the more manageable of future concerns. He is addressing the large-scale failure of America's once-enviable private pension system. 
 Lowenstein is one of the nation's most talented business writers, with a particular ability to make obscure financial issues clear as the morning light. He tells three disturbing tales. 
 The first is about General Motors and the United Auto Workers. In the 1950s, the U.A.W., under the redoubtable Walter Reuther, won generous pension and health care benefits from G.M., eventually even securing medical coverage for retirees. 
 Back then, of course, no one thought the world's premier manufacturing company would ever lose its pre-eminence. But beginning in the 1970s, market share declined inexorably while retiree rolls expanded dramatically. By the late 1990s, G.M. had 400,000 retirees compared with 180,000 workers.
 With stock prices generating high returns on investments in the bullish 1990s, G.M. decided to underfund its obligations. It also perhaps too cleverly spun off its parts operations, and a lot of its pension burden, into a company called Delphi. It didn't work. Delphi foundered, and the U.A.W. has taken over management of its own health fund, hoping to keep most of the promises made to workers. We shall see. 
 Lowenstein's second example is New York City's public transit system. Over time, the Transport Workers Union won subway workers benefits so generous they could retire by age 55. New York, however, failed to fund its pension benefits adequately, while being buffeted by economic crosswinds itself. The subway workers, despite a 2005 strike, were forced into concessions, but the city still faces huge liabilities. 
 The final example is the most egregious. San Diego's municipal workers were also granted generous pension benefits. The city management then deliberately skimped on the annual contributions, hiding the underfunding from the public while the union knowingly looked the other way. The result was near bankruptcy for the once thriving metropolis.
 From all this, however, Lowenstein draws a conclusion he does not prove. ''The story of pensions is, in fact, largely the story of the slow accretion of power by the labor unions,'' he concludes. But is it? The unions bear plenty of responsibility in the three stories he tells. But so does management. In each case, management deliberately underfunded its obligations.
 G.M. was run down more by Japanese competition (to which Lowenstein barely alludes) than by huge pensions. New York City's financial prospects were affected by many adverse factors, not least the stagflation and dire recession of the mid-1970s, when it almost went bankrupt. San Diego, as Lowenstein states, could have raised taxes to meet its obligations -- it is one of the lowest taxed of major cities in California. But the politicians refused.
 These three cases also fail to cover all the key bases. For example, while unions pushed their advantage in some quarters, large corporations explicitly underfunded pension obligations in the good times, not because of onerous union demands but because of greed. They wanted to make their earnings grow as rapidly and consistently as possible to boost stock prices.
 Most important, the greatest cause of uncertainty about retirement has been the large-scale shift by business from traditional defined-benefit pensions to defined-contribution plans -- the typical 401(k).Today, three out of five workers are covered by such plans. Why? Some businesses were surely overburdened by pension obligations and union demands. But most others, again, just wanted to make more money, and 401(k)'s cost business a lot less. Workers themselves must contribute to the plans, manage the money themselves and hope there is not a market crash just at the moment they retire. ''Whatever relief this brings to corporate shareholders,'' Lowenstein writes, ''from the employees' point of view the demise of pensions is a calamity in the making.'' 
 Finally, roughly half of all workers are employed by companies with no pension plan or defined contribution plan at all. Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama have proposed widening the reach of 401(k)'s to those whose employers don't offer them. But the issue rarely attracts media attention.
 Lowenstein offers thoughtful recommendations. Health care should be made available to all by the government. Proper funding of pension obligations by government and business should be required. But even if these reforms are undertaken, the problems he foresees may demand solutions that are still more dramatic.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); AGING (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); WRITERS (68%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (63%); CITIES (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (56%); MARKET SHARE (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: While America Aged (Book)>; While America Aged (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



113 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CAREER COUCH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: The Gainful Way To Use a Sabbatical

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN. 
E-mail: ccouch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Q. You like your job and want to keep it, but you could use a break that's longer than a vacation. In academia, professors routinely take sabbaticals in order to recharge. Could that be an option for you in the corporate world?
 A. Yes. In fact, 16 percent of American companies have formal unpaid sabbatical programs, and 5 percent offer paid sabbaticals, according to the Society for Human Resource Management. 
 Corporate sabbaticals are usually shorter than academic ones, said Elaine Varelas, managing partner of business development at Keystone Partners, a talent management firm in Boston.
 ''Unlike the academic world, in the business world it's out of sight, out of mind,'' she said. ''The longer you're out of touch, the higher the risk that you will seem less important in your job than you are.'' Ms. Varelas suggested taking no more than three months off.
 Don't consider asking for a sabbatical unless you are a high-performing employee who has been at the company for several years. If you are an average or marginal performer, you risk being perceived as someone who isn't serious about his or her career, she said.
 Q.What's the best way to broach the topic with your manager? If you are bored or burned out, should you talk about that? 
 A. If you're burned out you should take a vacation, not a sabbatical. The best case for a sabbatical is a business case, not a personal one. Write a proposal outlining how both you and the company will benefit from your time away, what you intend to do and what you hope to achieve, said Melanie Holmes, a vice president at Manpower, the staffing firm in Milwaukee.
 If you want to take a continuing education class, for example, or volunteer to work in Africa on a project to fight AIDS, describe how your efforts will relate to your professional development goals. 
 ''Include information about how you will be a better employee, that you will come back refreshed and more creative,'' Ms. Holmes said. 
 You may also be able to use the current economic downturn to your advantage. If your company is looking for ways to cut costs, this could be a good time to win approval for some unpaid leave, she said.
 You will also need a plan for covering your responsibilities, one that shows how your work will be seamlessly handled by others while you are away, so that neither clients nor co-workers suffer, said Rachelle J. Canter, president of RJC Associates, a leadership development firm in San Francisco and author of ''Make the Right Career Move'' (Jossey-Bass). 
 ''Be specific,'' she said. ''Tell your boss, 'Here is what I will do, this is who will cover these tasks, and I have set up lunches with these three clients to ensure a seamless handoff.' You don't want your boss to have to figure out how he can do this for you, because then it's just one more thing on his plate.''
 Q.Do you need to plan how you will use the time?
 A. If you don't, you're likely to waste it, said Rich Gee, an executive coach in Stamford, Conn., who took a one-month sabbatical four years ago when he was a product manager at Gartner Inc., the technology research firm. Mr. Gee had a number of goals: to take a class, to read several business books, to spend some time with family and to evaluate his career. 
 ''But I didn't plan it effectively and didn't get much accomplished,'' he said. ''You need to block out time for each activity every day, because you need structure and a time management system in order to get anything done.'' 
 Q. What do people generally do during a sabbatical? 
 A. They usually engage in activities that benefit them professionally, said Stefanie Smith, president of Stratex, an executive consulting firm in New York City. That doesn't mean you have to enroll in an executive education program -- although you could. But whatever you do, there needs to be a professional gain.
 ''Even if you spent your sabbatical rock climbing, you had the experience of successfully tackling a challenge, and that translates to changes in leadership style and self-perception,'' Ms. Smith said.
 Q.Is there a risk that your department will function so well without you that you will appear unnecessary? 
 A. The worst that will happen is your boss will see that you aren't indispensable, but if you're doing your job right, you shouldn't be indispensable anyway, Mr. Gee said. 
 Q.Your work colleagues will be curious about what you did while you were away and how you may have changed. Perhaps they will be resentful and think that you have been idle. What's the best way to handle a transition back to the office?
 A. As soon as possible, have a lunch with co-workers to talk about what you did on your sabbatical, what you learned and how it will let you contribute more to the team, Ms. Smith said. That will help engender camaraderie rather than resentment. 
 ''Come back to the office with one to three professional development goals and be prepared to articulate how those goals will also benefit the department and the company,'' she said. But don't gush about the singing lessons you took, or how you learned to play guitar. ''Keep that stuff to yourself,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); APPROVALS (64%); WRITERS (64%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); AIDS & HIV (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (68%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFRICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



114 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: How to Clear A Road to Redemption

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IT is Day 79 in the hostage crisis otherwise known as the auction-rate securities market. Some $300 billion worth of investors' funds -- advertised as being easy as pie to cash in -- are still locked up. And the brokerage firms that got investors into this mess are doing little to help. 
 But investors trapped in these securities are not the only victims of this debacle; taxpayers are, too. That's because municipal issuers of auction-rate notes -- towns, school districts, hospitals, highway authorities and others -- are being asked to pay up to redeem and restructure the debt. 
 Even as investors and taxpayers are hurt by this frozen market, Wall Street is making money from it. In fact, the auction-rate securities mess is another illustration of damaging conflicts of interest at the nation's big brokerage firms.
 Auction-rate securities are debt obligations issued by municipalities, nonprofit entities and closed-end mutual funds. Interest rates on the securities are set by periodic auctions, based on investor demand. The market froze in February when buyers disappeared, and brokerage firms refused to step in.
 Naturally, investment bankers who agreed to operate these auctions were paid for their services: 0.25 percent of the security's total issue for each year of its life. Unnaturally, big firms still earn these fees even though 70 percent of the weekly auctions of these securities are failing. 
 The firms also rake in banking fees when municipal issuers redeem the securities. They haul in another round of revenue when they help issuers unwind derivative contracts that are often intertwined with the securities. These derivatives were designed to reduce costs for the issuers by hedging their interest rate risks. Thanks to the decline in interest rates, however, they can be frightfully expensive to unspool. 
 By my arithmetic, that's Wall Street 3, Investors/Issuers 0. 
 Sure, investors get interest on their money -- but nowhere near enough to compensate for being stuck in their holdings. 
 Issuers of $78 billion in auction-rate securities have announced plans to redeem the paper. Almost three-quarters of that involves municipal notes, many with extra-high penalty rates of interest that must be paid to holders when an auction fails. These rates encourage redemption.
 But investors in the remaining issues are not so fortunate. They are receiving no offers to redeem their securities, at least in part because the penalty rates on this paper are ridiculously low -- 120 percent of the London Interbank Offered Rate, or now around 3.5 percent. So issuers have little incentive to redeem. 
 Investors desperate to sell can tap the Restricted Securities Trading Network, a secondary market recently set up by Restricted Stock Partners in New York. The action in the market is small but revealing. 
 Barry Silbert, the network's founder, said that about 10 trades occur daily, with an average size of $350,000. He said municipal issues trade at discounts of 2 percent to 10 percent, while closed-end fund shares trade at a 15 percent haircut. Student loan securities are the hardest to sell: their discounts are 25 percent or more.
 Joseph S. Fichera, chief executive of Saber Partners, said discounts like these present opportunities for municipal issuers to buy back the securities at a savings while also letting investors exit if they choose. This would provide the liquidity that some people crave. 
 For example, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York recently said it had $1.3 billion in failed auction securities outstanding after a buyback. If it repurchased 15 percent at a discount of 8 percent, it would save $16 million. Imagine what a hospital or university, short of cash, could do with such a windfall. 
 Issuers would also benefit by renegotiating contracts to eliminate payments for unsold securities and failed auctions. This would align Wall Street's incentives with its customers' needs, Mr. Fichera said. Since February, New York State would have saved $1 million if it had not had to pay for failed auctions on its securities, he estimated.
 After redeeming some debt, issuers could reap additional savings by refinancing the rest at current market rates. 
 For now, however, most Wall Street firms are advising their municipal issuer clients to buy back their securities at par. This is where the potential conflicts come in: discounted prices on these securities pose problems for investment banks that sold them to investors as cash. 
 If an investment bank advised an auction-rate note issuer to redeem at a discount, for example, that bank's customers who decided to sell would record a loss and have a claim for damages in an arbitration case. (Until an investor sells, he technically has no loss.) 
 Encouraging issuers to redeem at discounted prices could also force the firm to mark down similar securities on its own books. While the market is frozen, firms can avoid these markdowns. 
 ''The firms hold a lot of this themselves,'' Mr. Silbert said, ''and they are trying to minimize the damage to their balance sheets.''
 Wall Street should stop with this me-first routine. Pronto. It should stop billing issuers for failed auctions and should recommend that they redeem securities at fair value in the marketplace. 
 Failing that, issuers should work to fix the situation. ''Governments need to be as vigorous in representing their clients, the citizens, as Wall Street is in representing its own interests,'' Mr. Fichera said. ''The market will only produce efficient and fair results if this happens.'' 
 For securities left outstanding, issuers should help thaw the market by opening their auctions to more potential buyers; in recent years, issuers have been happy with just one brokerage firm involved. The results of the auctions should also be transparent instead of shrouded in secrecy -- showing how many bidders there are and at what prices. If investors knew that one auction had four bidders and another had 400, it would be pretty clear which security was riskier. 
 ''Transparency in the conduct of the auction is absolutely necessary to restore investor confidence and get the bidding going again,'' Mr. Fichera said. ''That way, investors can be informed about the risks they are taking and compensated for them.'' 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: A ROBOTIC WAY TO HEAL THE HEART: Surgery performed with robots is still finding its role in the medical marketplace. A new remote robotic system, used to treat electrical malfunctions in the heart linked to stroke and heart failure, is a closely watched touchstone for how successful robotics can be for patients, doctors and ultimately, investors.
HEART SURGERY WITH LESS CUTTING: Open heart surgery to treat the electrical malfunctions has been largely replaced by the use of minature tools at the end of long catheters. Now robots are being used to control the catheter, which could lead to better results.
AND LESS FATIGUE: X-rays and ultrasound images allow doctors to monitor work inside the heart. The robot allows doctors to avoid the fatigue of five hours at an operating table wearing a lead vest to limit exposure to X-rays.
 INSIDE THE HEART: Stray electrical currents can cause abnormal contractions. Catheters are used to scar the muscle to block the pathways of the stray signals. (Source: Hansen Medical) (DRAWING BY AL GRANBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); CALLABLE SECURITIES (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (55%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



115 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 7990 words

HEADLINE: Blocking the Transmission of Violence

BYLINE: By ALEX KOTLOWITZ. 
Alex Kotlowitz teaches writing at Northeastern University and is a regular contributor to the magazine. His last article was about illegal immigration.

 BODY:
LAST SUMMER, MARTIN TORRES WAS WORKING AS A COOK IN AUSTIN, Tex., when, on the morning of Aug. 23, he received a call from a relative. His 17-year-old nephew, Emilio, had been murdered. According to the police, Emilio was walking down a street on Chicago's South Side when someone shot him in the chest, possibly the culmination of an ongoing dispute. Like many killings, Emilio's received just a few sentences in the local newspapers. Torres, who was especially close to his nephew, got on the first Greyhound bus to Chicago. He was grieving and plotting retribution. ''I thought, Man, I'm going to take care of business,'' he told me recently. ''That's how I live. I was going hunting. This is my own blood, my nephew.'' 
 Torres, who is 38, grew up in a dicey section of Chicago, and even by the standards of his neighborhood he was a rough character. His nickname was Packman, because he was known to always pack a gun. He was first shot when he was 12, in the legs with buckshot by members of a rival gang. He was shot five more times, including once through the jaw, another time in his right shoulder and the last time -- seven years ago -- in his right thigh, with a .38-caliber bullet that is still lodged there. On his chest, he has tattooed a tombstone with the name ''Buff'' at its center, a tribute to a friend who was killed on his 18th birthday. Torres was the head of a small Hispanic gang, and though he is no longer active, he still wears two silver studs in his left ear, a sign of his affiliation. 
 When he arrived in Chicago, he began to ask around, and within a day believed he had figured out who killed his nephew. He also began drinking a lot -- mostly Hennessey cognac. He borrowed two guns, a .38 and a .380, from guys he knew. He would, he thought, wait until after the funeral to track down his nephew's assailants. 
 Zale Hoddenbach looks like an ex-military man. He wears his hair cropped and has a trimmed goatee that highlights his angular jaw. He often wears T-shirts that fit tightly around his muscled arms, though he also carries a slight paunch. When he was younger, Hoddenbach, who is also 38, belonged to a gang that was under the same umbrella as Torres's, and so when the two men first met 17 years ago at Pontiac Correctional Center, an Illinois maximum-security prison, they became friendly. Hoddenbach was serving time for armed violence; Torres for possession of a stolen car and a gun (he was, he says, on his way to make a hit). ''Zale was always in segregation, in the hole for fights,'' Torres told me. ''He was aggressive.'' In one scuffle, Hoddenbach lost the sight in his right eye after an inmate pierced it with a shank. Torres and Hoddenbach were at Pontiac together for about a year but quickly lost touch after they were both released. 
 Shortly after Torres arrived in Chicago last summer, Hoddenbach received a phone call from Torres's brother, the father of the young man who was murdered. He was worried that Torres was preparing to seek revenge and hoped that Hoddenbach would speak with him. When Hoddenbach called, Torres was thrilled. He immediately thought that his old prison buddy was going to join him in his search for the killer. But instead Hoddenbach tried to talk him down, telling him retribution wasn't what his brother wanted. ''I didn't understand what the hell he was talking about,'' Torres told me when I talked to him six months later. ''This didn't seem like the person I knew.'' The next day Hoddenbach appeared at the wake, which was held at New Life Community Church, housed in a low-slung former factory. He spent the day by Torres's side, sitting with him, talking to him, urging him to respect his brother's wishes. When Torres went to the parking lot for a smoke, his hands shaking from agitation, Hoddenbach would follow. ''Because of our relationship, I thought there was a chance,'' Hoddenbach told me. ''We were both cut from the same cloth.'' Hoddenbach knew from experience that the longer he could delay Torres from heading out, the more chance he'd have of keeping him from shooting someone. So he let him vent for a few hours. Then Hoddenbach started laying into him with every argument he could think of: Look around, do you see any old guys here? I never seen so many young kids at a funeral. Look at these kids, what does the future hold for them? Where do we fit in? Who are you to step on your brother's wishes? 
 THE STUBBORN CORE of violence in American cities is troubling and perplexing. Even as homicide rates have declined across the country -- in some places, like New York, by a remarkable amount -- gunplay continues to plague economically struggling minority communities. For 25 years, murder has been the leading cause of death among African-American men between the ages of 15 and 34, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which has analyzed data up to 2005. And the past few years have seen an uptick in homicides in many cities. Since 2004, for instance, they are up 19 percent in Philadelphia and Milwaukee, 29 percent in Houston and 54 percent in Oakland. Just two weekends ago in Chicago, with the first warm weather, 36 people were shot, 7 of them fatally. The Chicago Sun-Times called it the ''weekend of rage.'' Many killings are attributed to gang conflicts and are confined to particular neighborhoods. In Chicago, where on average five people were shot each day last year, 83 percent of the assaults were concentrated in half the police districts. So for people living outside those neighborhoods, the frequent outbursts of unrestrained anger have been easy to ignore. But each shooting, each murder, leaves a devastating legacy, and a growing school of thought suggests that there's little we can do about the entrenched urban poverty if the relentless pattern of street violence isn't somehow broken. 
 The traditional response has been more focused policing and longer prison sentences, but law enforcement does little to disrupt a street code that allows, if not encourages, the settling of squabbles with deadly force. Zale Hoddenbach, who works for an organization called CeaseFire, is part of an unusual effort to apply the principles of public health to the brutality of the streets. CeaseFire tries to deal with these quarrels on the front end. Hoddenbach's job is to suss out smoldering disputes and to intervene before matters get out of hand. His job title is violence interrupter, a term that while not artful seems bluntly self-explanatory. Newspaper accounts usually refer to the organization as a gang-intervention program, and Hoddenbach and most of his colleagues are indeed former gang leaders. But CeaseFire doesn't necessarily aim to get people out of gangs -- nor interrupt the drug trade. It's almost blindly focused on one thing: preventing shootings. 
 CeaseFire's founder, Gary Slutkin, is an epidemiologist and a physician who for 10 years battled infectious diseases in Africa. He says that violence directly mimics infections like tuberculosis and AIDS, and so, he suggests, the treatment ought to mimic the regimen applied to these diseases: go after the most infected, and stop the infection at its source. ''For violence, we're trying to interrupt the next event, the next transmission, the next violent activity,'' Slutkin told me recently. ''And the violent activity predicts the next violent activity like H.I.V. predicts the next H.I.V. and TB predicts the next TB.'' Slutkin wants to shift how we think about violence from a moral issue (good and bad people) to a public health one (healthful and unhealthful behavior). 
 EVERY WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, in a Spartan room on the 10th floor of the University of Illinois at Chicago's public-health building, 15 to 25 men -- and two women -- all violence interrupters, sit around tables arranged in a circle and ruminate on the rage percolating in the city. Most are in their 40s and 50s, though some, like Hoddenbach, are a bit younger. All of them are black or Hispanic and in one manner or another have themselves been privy to, if not participants in, the brutality of the streets. 
 On a Wednesday near the end of March, Slutkin made a rare appearance; he ordinarily leaves the day-to-day operations to a staff member. Fit at 57, Slutkin has a somewhat disheveled appearance -- tie askew, hair uncombed, seemingly forgetful. Some see his presentation as a calculated effort to disarm. ''Slutkin does his thing in his Slutkinesque way,'' notes Carl Bell, a psychiatrist who has long worked with children exposed to neighborhood violence and who admires CeaseFire's work. ''He seems kind of disorganized, but he's not.'' Hoddenbach told me: ''You can't make too much of that guy. In the beginning, he gives you that look like he doesn't know what you're talking about.'' 
 Slutkin had come to talk with the group about a recent high-profile incident outside Crane Tech High School on the city's West Side. An 18-year-old boy was shot and died on the school's steps, while nearby another boy was savagely beaten with a golf club. Since the beginning of the school year, 18 Chicago public-school students had been killed. (Another six would be murdered in the coming weeks.) The interrupters told Slutkin that there was a large police presence at the school, at least temporarily muffling any hostilities there, and that the police were even escorting some kids to and from school. They then told him what was happening off the radar in their neighborhoods. There was the continuing discord at another high school involving a group of girls (''They'd argue with a stop sign,'' one of the interrupters noted); a 14-year-old boy with a gang tattoo on his forehead was shot by an older gang member just out of prison; a 15-year-old was shot in the stomach by a rival gang member as he came out of his house; and a former CeaseFire colleague was struggling to keep himself from losing control after his own sons were beaten. There was also a high-school basketball player shot four times; a 12-year-old boy shot at a party; gang members arming themselves to counter an egging of their freshly painted cars; and a high-ranking gang member who was on life support after being shot, and whose sister was overheard talking on her cellphone in the hospital, urging someone to ''get those straps together. Get loaded.'' 
 These incidents all occurred over the previous seven days. In each of them, the interrupters had stepped in to try to keep one act of enmity from spiraling into another. Some had more success than others. Janell Sails prodded the guys with the egged cars to go to a car wash and then persuaded them it wasn't worth risking their lives over a stupid prank. At Crane Tech High School, three of the interrupters fanned out, trying to convince the five gangs involved in the conflict to lie low, but they conceded that they were unable reach some of the main players. Many of the interrupters seem bewildered by what they see as a wilder group of youngsters now running the streets and by a gang structure that is no longer top-down but is instead made up of many small groups -- which they refer to as cliques -- whose members are answerable to a handful of peers. 
 For an hour, Slutkin leaned on the table, playing with a piece of Scotch tape, keenly listening. In some situations, Slutkin can appear detached and didactic. He can wear people down with his long discourses, and some of the interrupters say they sometimes tune him out. (On one occasion, he tried to explain to me the relationship between emotional intelligence and quantum physics.) But having seen a lot of out-of-control behavior, Slutkin is a big believer in controlling emotions. So he has taught himself not to break into discussions and to digest before presenting his view. The interrupters say he has their unqualified loyalty. Hoddenbach told me that he now considers Slutkin a friend.
 It became clear as they delivered their reports that many of the interrupters were worn down. One of them, Calvin Buchanan, whose street name is Monster and who just recently joined CeaseFire, showed the others six stitches over his left eye; someone had cracked a beer bottle on his head while he was mediating an argument between two men. The other interrupters applauded when Buchanan told them that, though tempted, he restrained himself from getting even.
 When Slutkin finally spoke, he first praised the interrupters for their work. ''Everybody's overreacting, and you're trying to cool them down,'' he told them. He then asked if any of them had been experiencing jitteriness or fear. He spent the next half-hour teaching stress-reduction exercises. If they could calm themselves, he seemed to be saying, they could also calm others. I recalled what one of the interrupters told me a few weeks earlier: ''We helped create the madness, and now we're trying to debug it.'' 
 IN THE PUBLIC-HEALTH field, there have long been two schools of thought on derailing violence. One focuses on environmental factors, specifically trying to limit gun purchases and making guns safer. The other tries to influence behavior by introducing school-based curricula like antidrug and safe-sex campaigns. 
 Slutkin is going after it in a third way -- as if he were trying to contain an infectious disease. The fact that there's no vaccine or medical cure for violence doesn't dissuade him. He points out that in the early days of AIDS, there was no treatment either. In the short run, he's just trying to halt the spread of violence. In the long run, though, he says he hopes to alter behavior and what's considered socially acceptable.
 Slutkin's perspective grew out of his own experience as an infectious-disease doctor. In 1981, six years out of the University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine, Slutkin was asked to lead the TB program in San Francisco. With an influx of new refugees from Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam, the number of cases in the city had nearly doubled. Slutkin chose to concentrate on those who had the most active TB; on average, they were infecting 6 to 10 others a year. Slutkin hired Southeast Asian outreach workers who could not only locate the infected individuals but who could also stick with them for nine months, making sure they took the necessary medication. These outreach workers knew the communities and spoke the languages, and they were able to persuade family members of infected people to be tested. Slutkin also went after the toughest cases -- 26 people with drug-resistant TB. The chance of curing those people was slim, but Slutkin reckoned that if they went untreated, the disease would continue to spread. ''Gary wasn't constrained by the textbook,'' says Eric Goosby, who worked in the clinic and is now the chief executive of the Pangaea Global AIDS Foundation. Within two years, the number of TB cases, at least among these new immigrants, declined sharply. 
 Slutkin then spent 10 years in Africa, first in refugee camps in Somalia and then working, in Uganda and other countries, for the World Health Organization to curtail the spread of AIDS. During his first posting, in Somalia, a cholera epidemic spread from camp to camp. Slutkin had never dealt with an outbreak of this sort, and he was overwhelmed. The diarrhea from cholera is so severe that patients can die within hours from dehydration. According to Sandy Gove, who was then married to Slutkin and was also a doctor in the camps, infection rates were approaching 10 percent; in one camp there were 1,000 severely ill refugees. ''It was desperate,'' she told me. Slutkin drove a Land Cruiser two and a half days to an American military base along the coast to the closest phone. He called doctors in Europe and the United States, trying to get information. He also asked the soldiers at the base for blue food coloring, which he then poured into the water sources of the bacteria, a warning to refugees not to drink. ''What Gary is really good about is laying out a broad strategic plan and keeping ahead of something,'' Gove told me. There were only six doctors for the 40 refugee camps, so Slutkin and Gove trained birth attendants to spot infected people and to give them rehydration therapies in their homes. Because the birth attendants were refugees, they were trusted and could persuade those with the most severe symptoms to receive aid at the medical tent. 
 After leaving Africa, Slutkin returned to Chicago, where he was raised and where he could attend to his aging parents. (He later remarried there.) It was 1995, and there had been a series of horrific murders involving children in the city. He was convinced that longer sentences and more police officers had made little difference. ''Punishment doesn't drive behavior,'' he told me. ''Copying and modeling and the social expectations of your peers is what drives your behavior.''
 Borrowing some ideas (and the name) from a successful Boston program, Slutkin initially established an approach that exists in one form or another in many cities: outreach workers tried to get youth and young adults into school or to help them find jobs. These outreach workers were also doing dispute mediation. But Slutkin was feeling his way, much as he had in Somalia during the cholera epidemic. One of Slutkin's colleagues, Tio Hardiman, brought up an uncomfortable truth: the program wasn't reaching the most bellicose, those most likely to pull a trigger. So in 2004, Hardiman suggested that, in addition to outreach workers, they also hire men and women who had been deep into street life, and he began recruiting people even while they were still in prison. Hardiman told me he was looking for those ''right there on the edge.'' (The interrupters are paid roughly $15 an hour, and those working full time receive benefits from the University of Illinois at Chicago, where CeaseFire is housed.) The new recruits, with strong connections to the toughest communities, would focus solely on sniffing out clashes that had the potential to escalate. They would intervene in potential acts of retribution -- as well as try to defuse seemingly minor spats that might erupt into something bigger, like disputes over women or insulting remarks.
 As CeaseFire evolved, Slutkin says he started to realize how much it was drawing on his experiences fighting TB and AIDS. ''Early intervention in TB is actually treatment of the most infectious people,'' Slutkin told me recently. ''They're the ones who are infecting others. So treatment of the most infectious spreaders is the most effective strategy known and now accepted in the world.'' And, he continued, you want to go after them with individuals who themselves were once either infectious spreaders or at high risk for the illness. In the case of violence, you use those who were once hard-core, once the most belligerent, once the most uncontrollable, once the angriest. They are the most convincing messengers. It's why, for instance, Slutkin and his colleagues asked sex workers in Uganda and other nations to spread the word to other sex workers about safer sexual behavior. Then, Slutkin said, you train them, as you would paraprofessionals, as he and Gove did when they trained birth attendants to spot cholera in Somalia.
 The first step to containing the spread of an infectious disease is minimizing transmission. The parallel in Slutkin's Chicago work is thwarting retaliations, which is precisely what Hoddenbach was trying to do in the aftermath of Emilio Torres's murder. But Slutkin is also looking for the equivalent of a cure. The way public-health doctors think of curing disease when there are no drug treatments is by changing behavior. Smoking is the most obvious example. Cigarettes are still around. And there's no easy remedy for lung cancer or emphysema. So the best way to deal with the diseases associated with smoking is to get people to stop smoking. In Uganda, Slutkin and his colleagues tried to change behavior by encouraging people to have fewer sexual partners and to use condoms. CeaseFire has a visible public-communications campaign, which includes billboards and bumper stickers (which read, ''Stop. Killing. People.''). It also holds rallies -- or what it calls ''responses'' -- at the sites of killings. But much research suggests that peer or social pressure is the most effective way to change behavior. ''It was a real turning point for me,'' Slutkin said, ''when I was working on the AIDS epidemic and saw research findings that showed that the principal determinant of whether someone uses a condom or not is whether they think their friends use them.'' Daniel Webster, a professor of public health at Johns Hopkins University who has looked closely at CeaseFire, told me, ''The guys out there doing the interruption have some prestige and reputation, and I think the hope is that they start to change a culture so that you can retain your status, retain your manliness and be able to walk away from events where all expectations were that you were supposed to respond with lethal force.'' 
 As a result, the interrupters operate in a netherworld between upholding the law and upholding the logic of the streets. They're not meant to be a substitute for the police, and indeed, sometimes the interrupters negotiate disputes involving illicit goings-on. They often walk a fine line between mediating and seeming to condone criminal activity. At one Wednesday meeting this past December, the interrupters argued over whether they could dissuade stickup artists from shooting their victims; persuading them to stop robbing people didn't come up in the discussion. 
 LAST DECEMBER, at the first Wednesday meeting I attended, James Highsmith came up to introduce himself. At 58, Highsmith is one of the older interrupters. He wears striped, collared shirts, black rectangular glasses and often a black Borsalino, an Italian-made fedora. He reminded me that I had mentioned him in my book, ''There Are No Children Here,'' about life in a Chicago public-housing project in the late 1980s. I wrote about a picnic that some Chicago drug kingpins gave in a South Side park. There was a car show, a wet T-shirt contest and softball games for the children. About 2,000 people attended, dancing to a live band while the drug lords showed off their Mercedes Benzes, Rolls-Royces and Jaguars. Highsmith was the key sponsor of the event. He controlled the drug trade on the city's South Side. He owned a towing business, an auto-mechanic's shop and a nightclub, as well as a 38-foot boat. In January 1994, he was sentenced to 14 years in federal prison on drug-conspiracy charges; he was released in 2004. Highsmith was just the kind of recruit CeaseFire looks for: an older man getting out of the penitentiary who once had standing on the streets and who, through word of mouth, appears ready, eager even, to discard his former persona. ''I'm a work in progress,'' Highsmith told me.
 One evening we were sitting in Highsmith's basement apartment when the phone rang. It was Alphonso Prater, another interrupter. The two had a reunion of sorts when they joined CeaseFire; they shared a cell in the county jail 34 years ago. Prater's voice is so raspy it sounds as if he has gravel in his throat. He told me that he became permanently hoarse after a long stint in segregation in prison; he had to shout to talk with others. When Prater called the night I was there, all Highsmith could make out was: ''There's some high-tech stuff going on. I need you to talk to some folks.'' Highsmith didn't ask any questions.
 We drove to a poorly lighted side street on the city's West Side. Empty beer bottles littered the side of the road. Prater, who is short and wiry and has trouble keeping still, was bouncing on the sidewalk, standing next to a lanky middle-aged man who had receded into his oversize hooded sweatshirt. Highsmith, Prater and another interrupter joined the man in a parked car, where they talked for half an hour. When they were done, the car peeled away, two other sedans escorting it, one in front, the other in the rear. ''Protection,'' Highsmith commented. Apparently, the man in the hooded sweatshirt, whom I would meet later, had been an intermediary in a drug deal. He had taken an out-of-town buyer holding $30,000 in cash to a house on the South Side to buy drugs. But when they got there, they were met by six men in the backyard, each armed with a pistol or an automatic weapon, and robbed. The out-of-town buyer believed he'd been set up by the intermediary, who, in turn, was trying to hunt down the stickup artists. In the car, Prater, who knew the intermediary, had worked to cool him down, while Highsmith promised to see if he could find someone who might know the stickup guys and could negotiate with them. The intermediary told Prater and Highsmith, a bit ominously, ''Something got to give.'' 
 After the intermediary drove off, Prater joked that there was no way he was getting back in a car with him, that he was too overheated and too likely to be the target or the shooter. ''I'm not sure we can do anything about this one,'' Highsmith told Prater. 
 RELYING ON HARDENED TYPES -- the ones who, as Webster of Johns Hopkins says, have some prestige on the streets -- is risky. They have prestige for a reason. Hoddenbach, who once beat someone so badly he punctured his lungs, is reluctant to talk about his past. ''I don't want to be seen as a monster,'' he told me. Hoddenbach's ethnicity is hard to pinpoint. His father was Dutch and his mother Puerto Rican, and he's so light-skinned his street name was Casper. He has a discerning gaze and mischievous smile, and can be hardheaded and impatient. (At the Wednesday meetings, he often sits near the door and whispers entreaties to the others to speed things up.) Hoddenbach's father had an explosive temper, and to steal from Slutkin's lingo, he seems to have infected others. Two of Hoddenbach's older brothers are serving time for murder. His third brother has carved out a legitimate life as a manager at a manufacturing firm. Hoddenbach always worked. He did maintenance on train equipment and towed airplanes at a private airport. But he was also active in a Hispanic street gang and was known for his unmitigated aggression. He served a total of eight years in the state penitentiary, the last stay for charges that included aggravated battery. He was released in 2002.
 In January, I was with Slutkin in Baltimore, where he spoke about CeaseFire to a small gathering of local civic leaders at a private home. During the two-hour meeting, Slutkin never mentioned that the interrupters were ex-felons. When I later asked him about that omission, he conceded that talking about their personal histories ''is a dilemma. I haven't solved it.'' I spent many hours with Hoddenbach and the others, trying to understand how they chose to make the transition from gangster to peacemaker, how they put thuggery behind them. It is, of course, their street savvy and reputations that make them effective for CeaseFire. (One supporter of the program admiringly called it ''a terrifying strategy'' because of the inherent risks.) Some CeaseFire workers have, indeed, reverted to their old ways. One outreach worker was fired after he was arrested for possession of an AK-47 and a handgun. Another outreach worker and an interrupter were let go after they were arrested for dealing drugs. Word-of-mouth allegations often circulate, and privately, some in the police department worry about CeaseFire's workers returning to their old habits.
 Not all the interrupters I talked to could articulate how they had made the transition. Some, like Hoddenbach, find religion -- in his case, Christianity. He also has four children he feels responsible for, and has found ways to decompress, like going for long runs. (His brother Mark speculated that ''maybe he just wants to give back what he took out.'') I once asked Hoddenbach if he has ever apologized to anyone he hurt. We were with one of his old friends from the street, who started guffawing, as if I had asked Hoddenbach if he ever wore dresses. ''I done it twice,'' Hoddenbach told us -- quickly silencing his friend and saving me from further embarrassment. (One apology was to the brother of the man whose lungs he'd punctured; the other was to a rival gang member he shot.) Alphonso Prater told me that the last time he was released from prison, in 2001, an older woman hired him to gut some homes she was renovating. She trusted him with the keys to the homes, and something about that small gesture lifted him. ''She seen something in me that I didn't see,'' he told me. 
 Though the interrupters may not put it this way, the Wednesday meetings are a kind of therapy. One staff member laughingly compared it to a 12-step program. It was clear to me that they leaned on one another -- a lot. Prater once got an urgent call from his daughter, who said her boyfriend was beating her. Prater got in his car and began to race to her house; as he was about to run a stop sign, he glimpsed a police car on the corner. He skidded to a halt. It gave him a moment to think, and he called his CeaseFire supervisor, Tio Hardiman, who got another interrupter to visit Prater's daughter. Not long ago, three old-timers fresh out of prison ruthlessly ridiculed Hoddenbach for his work with CeaseFire. They were relentless, and Hoddenbach asked to sit down with them. But when it came time to meet, he realized he was too riled, and so he asked another interrupter, Tim White, to go in his place. ''I was worried I was going to whip their asses, and wherever it went from there it went,'' Hoddenbach told me. ''They were old feelings, feelings I don't want to revisit.'' 
 Recently I went out to lunch with Hoddenbach and Torres. It had been four months since Torres buried his nephew. Torres, who looked worn and agitated (he would get up periodically to smoke a cigarette outside), seemed paradoxically both grateful to and annoyed at Hoddenbach. In the end, Hoddenbach had persuaded him not to avenge his nephew's murder. Torres had returned the guns and quickly left town. This was his first visit back to Chicago. ''I felt like a punk,'' he told me, before transferring to the present tense. ''I feel shameful.'' He said he had sought revenge for people who weren't related to him -- ''people who weren't even no blood to me.'' But he held back in the case of his nephew. ''I still struggle with it,'' he said. On the ride over to the restaurant, Torres had been playing a CD of his nephew's favorite rap songs. It got him hyped up, and he blurted out to Hoddenbach, ''I feel like doing something.'' Hoddenbach chided him and shut off the music. ''Stop being an idiot,'' he told Torres.
 ''Something made me do what Zale asked me to do,'' Torres said later, looking more puzzled than comforted. ''Which is respect my brother's wishes.''
 When Slutkin heard of Hoddenbach's intervention, he told me: ''The interrupters have to deal with how to get someone to save face. In other words, how do you not do a shooting if someone has insulted you, if all of your friends are expecting you to do that? . . . In fact, what our interrupters do is put social pressure in the other direction.'' 
 He continued: ''This is cognitive dissonance. Before Zale walked up to him, this guy was holding only one thought. So you want to put another thought in his head. It turns out talking about family is what really makes a difference.'' Slutkin didn't take this notion to the interrupters; he learned it from them. 
 ONE JANUARY NIGHT at 11 p.m., Charles Mack received a phone call that a shooting victim was being rushed to Advocate Christ Medical Center. Mack drove the 10 miles from his home to the hospital, which houses one of four trauma centers in Chicago. Two interrupters, Mack and LeVon Stone, are assigned there. They respond to every shooting and stabbing victim taken to the hospital. Mack, who is 57 and has a slight lisp, is less imposing than his colleagues. He seems always to be coming from or going to church, often dressed in tie and cardigan. He sheepishly told me that his prison term, two years, was for bank fraud. ''The other guys laugh at me,'' he said. LeVon Stone is 23 years younger and a fast talker. He's in a wheelchair, paralyzed from the waist down as a result of being shot when he was 18. 
 Advocate Christ has come to see the presence of interrupters in the trauma unit as essential and is, in fact, looking to expand their numbers. ''It has just given me so much hope,'' Cathy Arsenault, one of the chaplains there, told me. ''The families would come in, huddle in the corner and I could see them assigning people to take care of business.'' Mack and Stone try to cool off family members and friends, and if the victim survives, try to keep them from seeking vengeance. 
 The victim that night was a tall 16-year-old boy named Frederick. He was lying on a gurney just off the emergency room's main hallway. He was connected to two IVs, and blood was seeping through the gauze wrapped around his left hand. Mack stood to one side; Stone pulled up on the other. 
 ''You know, the most important thing is --'' Mack ventured.
 ''You're alive,'' Stone chimed in.
 Stone then asked Frederick if he had heard of CeaseFire. The boy nodded and told them that he had even participated in a CeaseFire rally after a killing in his neighborhood. 
 ''We try to stop violence on the front end,'' Stone told Frederick. ''Unfortunately, this is the back end. We just want to make sure you don't go out and try to retaliate.''
 The boy had been shot -- one bullet shattered his thigh bone and another ripped the tendons in two fingers. Nonetheless, he seemed lucid and chatty. 
 ''My intention is to get in the house, call my school, get my books and finish my work,'' he told Mack and Stone. He mentioned the school he attends, which Mack instantly recognized as a place for kids on juvenile-court probation. Frederick told his story. He was at a party, and a rival clique arrived. Frederick and his friends sensed there would be trouble, so they left, and while standing outside, one of the rival group pulled a gun on them. Frederick's friend told him earlier he had a gun. It turned out to be braggadocio, and so when his friend took off running, so did Frederick, a step behind. As he dashed through a narrow passageway between buildings, he heard the shots.
 ''Can I ask why you're in the wheelchair?'' Frederick asked Stone.
 ''I got shot 15 years ago,'' Stone told him. Stone didn't say anything more about it, and later when I asked for more detail, he was elusive. He said simply that he had gotten shot at a barbecue when he tried to intervene in a fistfight. 
 ''You doing good,'' Stone assured him. ''You got shot. You're here. And you're alive. What you do when you get out of here?''
 ''You got to stop hanging with the wrong person, thinking you're a Wyatt Earp,'' Frederick said, speaking in the third person as if he were reciting a lesson.
 At that point, Frederick's sister arrived. She explained that she was bringing up her brother. She was 18. 
 ''He just wants to go to parties, parties, parties,'' she complained. ''But it's too dangerous.'' She started to cry. 
 ''Don't start that, please,'' Frederick pleaded.
 Mack left a CeaseFire brochure on Frederick's chest and promised to visit him again in the coming weeks. 
 LAST MAY, after a 16-year-old boy was killed trying to protect a girl from a gunman on a city bus, Slutkin appeared on a local public-television news program. He suggested CeaseFire was responsible for sharp dips in homicide around the city. Slutkin, some say, gives CeaseFire too much credit. Carl Bell, the psychiatrist, was on the program with Slutkin that night. ''I didn't say anything,'' he told me. ''I support Slutkin. I'm like, Slutkin, what are you doing? You can't do that. Maybe politically it's a good thing, but scientifically it's so much more complex than that. Come on, Gary.'' 
 Last year, CeaseFire lost its $6 million in annual state financing -- which meant a reduction from 45 interrupters to 17 -- as part of statewide budget cuts. One state senator, who had ordered an audit of CeaseFire (released after the cuts, it found some administrative inefficiencies), maintained there was no evidence that CeaseFire's work had made a difference. (The cuts caused considerable uproar: The Chicago Tribune ran an editorial urging the restoration of financing, and the State House overwhelmingly voted to double CeaseFire's financing; the State Senate, though, has yet to address it.)
 It can be hard to measure the success -- or the failure -- of public-health programs, especially violence-prevention efforts. And given Slutkin's propensity to cite scientific studies, it is surprising that he hasn't yet published anything about CeaseFire in a peer-reviewed journal. Nonetheless, in a report due out later this month, independent researchers hired by the Justice Department (from which CeaseFire gets some money) conclude that CeaseFire has had an impact. Shootings have declined around the city in recent years. But the study found that in six of the seven neighborhoods examined, CeaseFire's efforts reduced the number of shootings or attempted shootings by 16 percent to 27 percent more than it had declined in comparable neighborhoods. The report also noted -- with approbation -- that CeaseFire, unlike most programs, manages by outcomes, which means that it doesn't measure its success by gauging the amount of activity (like the number of interrupters on the street or the number of interruptions -- 1,200 over four years) but rather by whether shootings are going up or down. One wall in Slutkin's office is taken up by maps and charts his staff has generated on the location and changes in the frequency of shootings throughout the city; the data determine how they assign the interrupters. Wes Skogan, a professor of political science at Northwestern (disclosure: I teach there) and the author of the report, said, ''I found the statistical results to be as strong as you could hope for.''
 BALTIMORE, NEWARK and Kansas City, Mo., have each replicated components of the CeaseFire model and have received training from the Chicago staff. In Baltimore, the program, which is run by the city, combines the work of interrupters and outreach workers and has been concentrated in one East Baltimore neighborhood. (The program recently expanded to a second community.) Early research out of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health shows that in the East Baltimore neighborhood there were on average two shootings a month just before the program started. During the first four months that interrupters worked the streets, there had not been a single incident.
 ''My eyes rolled immediately when I heard what the model was,'' says Webster of Johns Hopkins, who is studying the Baltimore project. Webster knew the forces the interrupters were up against and considered it wishful thinking that they could effectively mediate disputes. ''But when I looked closer at the data,'' Webster continues, ''and got to know more about who these people were and what they were doing, I became far less skeptical and more hopeful. We're going to learn from it. And it will evolve.'' George Kelling, a Rutgers professor of criminal justice who is helping to establish an effort in Newark to reduce homicide, helped develop the ''broken window'' theory of fighting crime: addressing small issues quickly. He says a public-health model will be fully effective only if coupled with other efforts, including more creative policing and efforts to get gang members back to school or to work. But he sees promise in the CeaseFire model. ''I had to overcome resistance,'' Kelling told me, referring to the introduction of a similar program in Newark. ''But I think Slutkin's on to something.'' 
 Most of the police officials I spoke with, in both Chicago and Baltimore, were grateful for the interrupters. James B. Jackson, now the first deputy superintendent in Chicago, was once the commander of the 11th district, which has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the city. Jackson told me that after his officers investigated an incident, he would ask the police to pull back so the interrupters could mediate. He understood that if the interrupters were associated with the police, it would jeopardize their standing among gang members. ''If you look at how segments of the population view the police department, it makes some of our efforts problematic,'' Baltimore's police commissioner, Frederick H. Bealefeld III, told me. ''It takes someone who knows these guys to go in and say, 'Hey, lay off.' We can't do that.'' 
 Like many new programs that taste some success, CeaseFire has ambitions that threaten to outgrow its capacity. Slutkin has put much of his effort on taking the project to other cities (there's interest from Los Angeles, Oakland and Wilmington, Del., among others), and he has consulted with the State Department about assisting in Iraq and in Kenya. (CeaseFire training material has been made available to the provincial reconstruction teams in Iraq.) Meanwhile, their Chicago project is underfinanced, and the interrupters seem stressed from the amount of work they've taken on. 
 THE INTERRUPTERS have certain understandings. At the Wednesday meetings, no one is ever to mention anyone involved in a dispute by name or, for that matter, mention the name of the gang. Instead they refer to ''Group A'' or ''Group B.'' They are not investigators for the police. In fact, they go out of their way to avoid knowing too much about a crime. When Highsmith and Prater left me the night of the failed drug deal, they began working their contacts. Highsmith found someone who knew one of the stickup men and who, at Highsmith's request, negotiated with them. Highsmith's contact persuaded the robbers to return enough of the money to appease the drug-buyer's anger. When I met with the intermediary a few weeks after things were resolved, he was still stirred up about the robbery. ''I was mad enough to do anything,'' he told me, making it clear that he and his friends had been hunting for the stickup guys. ''This could've been a hell of a lot worse than it was.'' To this day, neither Highsmith nor Prater know the identities of anyone except the intermediary -- and they want to leave it that way. 
 The interrupters often operate by instinct. CeaseFire once received a call from the mother of a 15-year-old boy who wanted out of a gang he joined a few weeks earlier. The mother told Hoddenbach and another interrupter, Max Cerda, that the gang members chased her son home every day from school threatening to beat him. They had shot at him twice. Hoddenbach found the clique leaders and tried to talk sense to them. If the boy didn't want to be in the gang, he told them, he'd be the first one to snitch. The gang members saw the logic behind that but insisted on giving him a beating before releasing him. Hoddenbach then tried another tack: he negotiated to let him leave the gang for $300 -- and no thrashing. The family, though, was only able to come up with $50, so Hoddenbach, Cerda and another interrupter came up with the rest. At their next Wednesday meeting, some interrupters were critical of Hoddenbach for paying what they considered extortion money. ''It was kind of a messed-up way, but it was a messed-up way that works,'' Hoddenbach said.
 It was nearly three months before Charles Mack could find time to visit Frederick, the young shooting victim. Frederick had since moved in with his great-grandmother in a different part of town. In his old neighborhood, he told Mack, ''there always somebody who knows you. And I had a reputation.'' He complained to Mack that he had never been interviewed by the police but then declared he would never identify the person who shot him anyway. ''I'm going to leave it alone,'' he said. As is so often the case, Frederick couldn't remember the genesis of the disagreement between his clique and the other. Mack promised to stay in touch, and as we dropped him off, Mack turned to me and said, ''I think he's going to be all right.'' It sounded like both a proclamation as well as hopeful aside.
 Not long ago, I stopped by to visit with Hoddenbach at the Boys and Girls Club, where he holds down a second job. It was a Friday evening, and he was waiting for an old associate to come by to give him an introduction to a group of Hispanic kids on the far North Side. Apparently, earlier in the week, they bashed in the face of an African-American teenager with a brick. From what Hoddenbach could make out, it was the result of a long-simmering dispute -- the equivalent of a dormant virus -- and the victim's uncle was now worried that it would set off more fighting. As we sat and talked, Hoddenbach seemed unusually agitated. His left foot twitched as if it had an electric current running through it. ''If these idiots continue,'' he told me, ''somebody's going to step up and make a statement.''
 Hoddenbach also worried about Torres, who had recently gone back to Texas and found a job working construction. Hoddenbach says he originally hoped Torres would stay in Chicago and establish some roots, but then decided he'd be better off in another town. ''I kept him out of one situation, but I can't keep him out of all of them,'' Hoddenbach said. This may well speak to CeaseFire's limitations. Leaving town is not an option for most. And for those who have walked away from a shooting, like Torres, if there are no jobs, or lousy schools, or decrepit housing, what's to keep them from drifting back into their former lives? It's like cholera: you may cure everyone, you may contain the epidemic, but if you don't clean up the water supply, people will soon get sick again.
 Slutkin says that it makes sense to purify the water supply if -- and only if -- you acknowledge and treat the epidemic at hand. In other words, antipoverty measures will work only if you treat violence. It would seem intuitive that violence is a result of economic deprivation, but the relationship between the two is not static. People who have little expectation for the future live recklessly. On the other side of the coin, a community in which arguments are settled by gunshots is unlikely to experience economic growth and opportunity. In his book ''The Bottom Billion,'' Paul Collier argues that one of the characteristics of many developing countries that suffer from entrenched poverty is what he calls the conflict trap, the inability to escape a cycle of violence, usually in the guise of civil wars. Could the same be true in our inner cities, where the ubiquity of guns and gunplay pushes businesses and residents out and leaves behind those who can't leave, the most impoverished? 
 In this, Slutkin sees a direct parallel to the early history of seemingly incurable infectious diseases. ''Chinatown, San Francisco in the 1880s,'' Slutkin says. ''Three ghosts: malaria, smallpox and leprosy. No one wanted to go there. Everybody blamed the people. Dirty. Bad habits. Something about their race. Not only is everybody afraid to go there, but the people there themselves are afraid at all times because people are dying a lot and nobody really knows what to do about it. And people come up with all kinds of other ideas that are not scientifically grounded -- like putting people away, closing the place down, pushing the people out of town. Sound familiar?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE VISIONARY: Gary Slutkin saw a connection between violence and disease
THE FRONT END: James Highsmith tries to stay plugged in to Auburn Gresham, a Chicago neighborhood, where he can track brewing conflicts
THE BACK END: Charles Mack visiting the victim of a gunshot wound. His goal: to prevent retaliation
SMALL STEPS: A CeaseFire field office in Chicago's Humboldt Park
 Zale Hoddenbach, center, once a gang member, now a CeaseFire interrupter. He trades on his street credibility to defuse violence before it happens. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUBEN COX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); MURDER (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); GANGS (75%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



116 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Bid for Yahoo Is Withdrawn By Microsoft

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Microsoft said Saturday that it was abandoning its blockbuster bid to acquire Yahoo after it raised its offer by $5 billion but Yahoo rejected it as still too low. 
 The about-face followed a meeting on Saturday morning in Seattle between Microsoft's chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, and Yahoo's chief and co-founder, Jerry Yang, according to a person familiar with the talks.
 At the meeting, which also included Yahoo's other founder, David Filo, and a Microsoft president who oversees its online unit, Kevin Johnson, Mr. Ballmer increased Microsoft's offer to $33 a share, or a total of about $47.5 billion, from $29.40 a share. Mr. Yang told Mr. Ballmer that Yahoo would not accept an offer below $37 a share, this person said. 
 ''Despite our best efforts, including raising our bid by roughly $5 billion, Yahoo has not moved toward accepting our offer,'' Mr. Ballmer said in a statement. ''After careful consideration, we believe the economics demanded by Yahoo do not make sense for us, and it is in the best interests of Microsoft stockholders, employees and other stakeholders to withdraw our proposal.'' 
 A person close to Yahoo said the price was not the only stumbling block. The person said Yahoo was also concerned that the deal could be blocked by regulators and wanted a higher offer, in part, as a hedge against that risk.
 Microsoft's decision to walk away casts a cloud of uncertainty over Yahoo and its shareholders. The breakdown in the talks is likely to send Yahoo's shares plunging, and Mr. Yang and his team will have to decide how to placate investors. 
 The company has been exploring alternatives to a marriage with Microsoft, including a partnership in search advertising with its arch rival, Google, which could lift Yahoo's profit and perhaps its stock price. Yahoo has also discussed possible mergers with the AOL unit of Time Warner and the MySpace unit of the News Corporation. The MySpace talks have not been active of late.
 But both remaining options pose challenges. A Google partnership would be likely to attract scrutiny from regulators because of Google's dominance over online search and advertising, while AOL and Yahoo have many overlapping businesses and technologies, making a merger difficult.
 In a statement issued late Saturday, Mr. Yang said, ''With the distraction of Microsoft's unsolicited proposal now behind us, we will be able to focus all of our energies on executing the most important transition in our history.''
 Reactions inside Yahoo are likely to be mixed. Several senior executives favored selling to Microsoft and said in recent days that they were hoping to see a deal happen. Yet other executives were high-fiving each other for defeating Microsoft's bid, people close to the company said.
 While its stock may fall on Monday, Yahoo's management was encouraged by discussions with its largest investors in which they urged management to not accept $33 a share, these people said. For Mr. Yang, Microsoft's withdrawal is considered a ''personal victory,'' according to one person who spoke with him.
 Microsoft has spent years and billions of dollars trying to build an online business. Yet it has steadily lost ground to Google in the search business and has failed to gain significant momentum with advertisers.
 Microsoft's decision to abandon its pursuit of Yahoo is not necessarily the last chapter in the three-month-old saga. If Yahoo's shares fall significantly, the company will be under intense pressure to act, and may choose to resume negotiations.
 Earlier this year, under intense shareholder pressure, BEA Systems did just that, agreeing to a takeover by Oracle soon after Oracle dropped an unsolicited offer it had made for BEA.
 ''This seems like a very strong but serious negotiating tactic,'' said Jonathan Miller, the former chairman and chief executive of AOL. ''It will be up to Yahoo to come back to the negotiating table.''
 Microsoft had threatened to pursue a hostile takeover if it could not come to an agreement with Yahoo's management. That could have involved an appeal directly to Yahoo's shareholders and an effort to remove members of Yahoo's board of directors.
 In a letter to Mr. Yang sent on Saturday afternoon, Mr. Ballmer wrote: ''It is clear to me that it is not sensible for Microsoft to take our offer directly to your shareholders. This approach would necessarily involve a protracted proxy contest.'' 
 He added: ''Our discussions with you have led us to conclude that, in the interim, you would take steps that would make Yahoo undesirable as an acquisition for Microsoft.'' Mr. Ballmer took particular aim at Yahoo's discussions of a partnership with Google, noting that it would ''make an acquisition of Yahoo undesirable to us for a number of reasons.''
 Microsoft's decision to abandon its bid is likely to raise questions among investors about the judgment of both Microsoft and Yahoo.
 When Microsoft made its initial bid, it said Yahoo was an important part of its strategy to take on Google. Its choice to withdraw, after threatening to force a shareholder vote, may prompt its shareholders to doubt its resolve. At the same time, many Microsoft shareholders who did not want the company to bid for Yahoo may be relieved and send shares of Microsoft higher on Monday.
 For Yahoo's shareholders, the abandoned bid may create even more uncertainty over the company's management. Many Yahoo shareholders would have preferred that the company accept the offer of about $47.5 billion, which was roughly 70 percent higher than the company's market value at the end of January. 
 Over the last three months, the companies had infrequent talks, according to people involved in the negotiations from the start who were not authorized to be quoted by name. 
 Frustrated by the lack of discussions, Microsoft sent a threatening letter to Yahoo on April 5 suggesting that Microsoft would try to force a shareholder vote to circumvent Yahoo's management if the companies could not reach an agreement within three weeks. At the same time, Microsoft began seeking a partner for its bid, holding talks with the News Corporation, controlled by Rupert Murdoch, as well as AOL. Both of those companies had been holding concurrent negotiations with Yahoo about their own partnerships. 
 On April 15, Microsoft and Yahoo held a secret meeting in Portland, Ore., in which the companies discussed ''social issues'' -- like who would run the Yahoo unit if it were folded into Microsoft -- but no decisions were made.
 Three days later, bankers for Microsoft and Yahoo held a conference call in which Yahoo's bankers suggested that $40 a share would be a ''slam dunk'' that would get the deal done. A week later, Microsoft's deadline passed without Microsoft proceeding with a proxy contest as it had threatened. Microsoft decided that it would still try to seek a friendly deal and that a hostile bid could impair the value of Yahoo.
 Last Tuesday, three days after the deadline, Mr. Ballmer and Mr. Yang had several telephone conversations as Yahoo sought to reach a deal to keep Microsoft from turning hostile. In those talks, Mr. Yang overruled his bankers, telling Mr. Ballmer that Microsoft did not have to go as high as $40 a share to get a deal done, and suggested that they begin negotiations.
 The next day, Microsoft and Yahoo began talks in earnest, pulling in dozens of bankers and lawyers to try to reach a deal. Mr. Ballmer flew to Yahoo's headquarters in Sunnyvale, Calif., where Mr. Yang said Yahoo would be willing to accept nothing lower than $38 a share. Each dollar per share is equal to about $1.4 billion.
 Microsoft pushed back, saying it would pay no more than $33 a share. The talks culminated in a final meeting on Saturday in which Mr. Yang flew to Seattle to meet with Mr. Ballmer. Mr. Ballmer stuck to his $33 price, and Mr. Yang said Yahoo's board would accept $37 a share. Hours later, Mr. Ballmer sent Mr. Yang the letter saying Microsoft would withdraw its bid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MERGERS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (92%); GOOGLE INC (83%); NEWS CORP (63%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (NASDAQ) (63%); NWS (ASX) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%)

PERSON: JERRY YANG (79%); KEVIN JOHNSON (59%); DAVID FILO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (88%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



117 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE MEDIUM; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Voila (Sort of)!

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

 BODY:
So what's on the block at the upfronts this month? Could it be the future of television?
 Every spring since the early '80s, the lavish presentations known as the upfronts have been a propaganda jamboree for the TV business. What began as a network trade show for ad-world elites has evolved, thanks to industry one-upmanship, into a bacchanal of variety shows hosted by the networks and staged before standing-room hordes at places like Carnegie Hall and Lincoln Center. 
 In the midst of extravagant audiovisuals, musical numbers, comedy sketches, pricey giveaways and celebrity appearances, the networks divulge their fall prime-time schedules -- the sitcoms, dramas, game shows and reality programs that are broadcast between 8 and 11. They settle with great fanfare industry nail-biters like ''Will Fox cede the Thursday 8:30 hammock time slot to NBC?'' The audience for this arcana includes reporters and prospective advertisers, who sit rapt for an hour or two and then mill around at swanky after-parties, hoping to glimpse Kiefer Sutherland and sounding off about how dumb or weird the presentations were. 
 And the upfronts are kind of dumb. They are overblown tributes to a bygone style of salesmanship, and from the point of view of advertisers, they are almost pointless. In the old days, execs from Ralston Purina, say, would attend exclusive in-studio screenings of CBS pilots so they could be sure to place Puppy Chow ads during shows that featured dogs. But today, when media buyers can screen shows online and study a network's demographics and ad platforms, the upfronts function chiefly as an ostentatious corporate week on the town.
 They are a sight to see: the ad world squealing over small-screen stars, small-screen stars conversing knowingly with network accountants and alpha executives donning big shoes and clown noses, begging for ad dollars while flanked by high-flying guys and dolls. (Think Aretha Franklin, the Who, Mary J. Blige, Chris Rock, Eli and Peyton Manning, Jerry Seinfeld, Tyra Banks, Ashton Kutcher, Mariah Carey.) The whole spectacle has got to be one of the most embarrassing, astonishing, confusing, wondrous collisions of American sensibilities you'll ever see.
 Or it was. For decades. When TV was a business of winners. 
 But winning streaks must end. Having so long excoriated ourselves as a nation of zombie-eyed TV addicts -- we average six hours a day, the old studies always showed -- Americans cannot seem to face the fact that we have sobered up. But it's true: many of us seem to have shut off the networks, at least in prime time. Instead, we watch DVDs, DVRs, on-demand, online and niche cable channels. We also do other things. No one knows what, exactly, but it's evidently less quantifiable than watching TV. (One suggestive statistic: Americans watched 10 billion videos online in the month of February alone, according to the comScore Video Metrix service.)
 To people who work in television, this development is known as ''the viewer plunge.'' Last spring at the upfronts, a chilling number was widely whispered: 2.5 million fewer people were watching NBC, CBS, ABC and Fox than had in spring 2006. TV executives repeatedly reassured ad buyers that everything was A-O.K., but they also took to kitchen-sinking to explain away the plunge. Daylight Savings Time had come too early. Everyone was using TiVo and the Internet. The rating system is unfair. The war. The economy. The toxins. The bees. But things were going to be great in '08.
 And then came the writers' strike. Combined with the viewer plunge, it was like the Depression and the Dust Bowl -- a double whammy for television and its audience. The strike ''orphaned'' viewers (as the jargon has it) without their favorite shows, which gave viewers a reason to leave network television entirely. And they did. Sayonara. According to The Hollywood Reporter, most returning shows lost between 10 and 30 percent of the viewers they had before the strike, when ratings for the networks were already low.
 It's not immediately clear what all this means for the upfronts. How do you celebrate your wedding anniversary the year that divorce is imminent? Do you drink alone? Toast to old times? 
 ''It's going to be much more like a meeting,'' Mike Shaw, the president of sales and marketing for ABC, said, referring to this year's upfronts, on an advertising panel at the Harvard Business School in February. He cited, as one reason for this change, the fact that the writers' strike compressed the time available for producing pilots. Still, the writing is on the wall: the good times are over. The ABC gang will show up at Lincoln Center but offer some kind of ''streamlined'' corporate presentation and no party. Sounds like fun.
 Jeff Zucker, the chief executive of NBC Universal, which is trailing closely behind the three other big networks, seems equally chastened. At the same event in February, he declared that NBC would be ''much more realistic and much more honest'' in its presentation of programming to advertisers. (NBC has resolved to make shows faster, cheaper and year-round, meaning they won't make and summarily kill the usual huge number of sample shows.) Fox, which still has a bona fide, if recently weakened, hit in ''American Idol,'' is planning an upfront as usual, but no surprises or dramatic unveilings are expected. Finally, CBS is doing a programming and advertising presentation. No party. 
 I'm not going to any upfronts this year. I'll miss them: I've loved every minute of the cuckoo shows in the past, and I'll probably never get to see those mongo entertainers at such close range again. At the upfronts I always learned something too about what the American people want: heartwarming dramas, women's stuff, sports, heroism, complex characters, real people, guilty pleasures, eye candy, names they can trust, ambiguous villains, simple comedies, hipster hipness, good old-fashioned values, edginess, upscaleness, satire, science fiction, girls, boys, Latinas, crime procedurals, urban sitcoms, aspirationalism, a way to express their anger. 
 Closing credits. Color bars. Static. For decades, what Americans want has been something that could be piped into a television screen. What if it's not anymore? 
 Points of Entry
 THIS WEEK'S RECOMMENDATIONS
 SAUSAGE IS MADE: Lisa Kudrow's ''Comeback'' was broadcast for one splendid season on HBO, but will be immortal on DVD as ''The Comeback: The Complete First Only Season,'' available from Amazon. The series features a fantastic, cringy scene set at the upfronts, and the whole show serves as an excavation of the prime-time TV life, from the high-flying '80s to the mystifying nows. It's also hilarious. Watch to see if TV as we know it will make a comeback or be canceled. 
 BLOGROLLING: Brian Stelter, who started the great TVNewser blog, has turned Decoder on nytimes.com into the best TV blog going. When you're not watching TV, watch Decoder: nytimes.com/tvdecoder. 
 TELEVISION GRANDEUR: Founded in 1975 by William S. Paley, the guiding light of CBS, the Paley Center, which has branches in New York and Los Angeles, only just changed its name from the Museum of Television and Radio. The Paley Center site offers video clips of celebrity-rich museum events, including a notorious panel on which David Chase of ''The Sopranos'' is confronted by all the actors whose characters he had killed off. The site's player is a little wonky, but you can't expect a TV and radio museum to make the switch to online video too easy for us, can you? 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEVIN VAN AELST
 CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); DOGS (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); PET FOODS (70%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: KIEFER SUTHERLAND (79%); JERRY SEINFELD (58%); CHRIS ROCK (54%); TYRA BANKS (54%); MARIAH CAREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



118 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: A Northeast Movement to Cut Emissions

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
AT a conference at Yale University last month, officials from New Jersey, New York and Connecticut were among leaders from 18 states who signed a declaration urging the federal government to take action on climate change.
 But as they grow impatient over the absence of federal restrictions on carbon emissions, officials in several states, especially those in the Northeast, have decided to take matters into their own hands.
 New Jersey was among the first three states in the nation to require significant reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that are believed to contribute to global warming. Connecticut is about to become the fourth. 
 Last week, Connecticut's state House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved tougher standards to cut the greenhouse gas emissions associated with global warming. The measure was to be considered by the Senate by the end of the week, and if it is approved, it would require Gov. M. Jodi Rell's signature. 
 ''The environmental community is happy,'' said Charles Rothenberger, staff attorney for the Connecticut Fund for the Environment, one of several environmental groups, including Environment Northeast and the Nature Conservancy, that helped write the bill and push it onto this year's agenda. 
 While a number of other states have set voluntary goals for curbing greenhouse gas emissions, or set caps for a specific sector like power plants or motor vehicles, only three states, New Jersey, California and Hawaii, have taken on legislation that goes further. The Connecticut bill, similar to those in the other three states, could affect every source of greenhouse gas emission -- including the public sector, industry, transportation and private homes. 
 The bill would require that total greenhouse gas emissions be reduced to 10 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 and to 80 percent below 2001 levels by 2050.
 In New York, a similar bill passed the Assembly on April 15, though its fate in the Senate is uncertain and Governor David A. Paterson has taken no position on it. The New York legislation would require yearly greenhouse gas reductions of 2.3 percent of 1990 levels beginning in 2014 and reaching at least 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. 
 Like the bills in Connecticut, New Jersey, and California -- California's legislation is considered the granddaddy of so-called carbon cap bills -- the specifics in the New York bill of how to reach cap levels are left for state agencies to determine.
 ''It allows different sectors to handle this in whatever way is appropriate for them,'' said Assemblyman Robert K. Sweeney, a Democrat from Lindenhurst, N.Y., and chairman of the Environmental Conservation Committee. ''The ideal thing would be for the federal government to do this on a nationwide basis. That hasn't happened. I don't think we have the luxury of waiting to see whether they will do it.'' 
 New Jersey, nearly a year into its process of putting the Global Warming Response Act into effect, has nearly completed an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions -- a necessary first step for figuring out where to cut them. The state has released a draft energy master plan that dovetails with the emissions cap and is on target to meet its first cap level in 2020.
 ''One of the things the governor expected and has totally played out is that in showing leadership on this issue, we would raise the volume on the level of dialogue and actions in the state,'' said Lisa P. Jackson, commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection. ''Individual companies are taking climate change action on their own -- in anticipation of what we are doing.''
 In Connecticut supporters of carbon caps note that even a small state can pressure other states like Massachusetts and Vermont, which are considering similar legislation -- and the states together can push the federal government into a national cap on emissions. 
 ''I just think it's too important of an issue for us to say we'll leave it up to the federal government or leave it up to the bigger states,'' said state Senator John McKinney of Southport, the Senate minority leader as well as the ranking Republican on the General Assembly Environment Committee. 
 Mr. Rothenberger said current state law, passed in 2004, set only ''aspirational,'' or voluntary, goals for reducing greenhouse gases. Those goals, he said, were not being met.
 ''This is really designed to put the foot on the accelerator,'' he said. ''Right now the agencies can act or not as is their inclination, and there's really not much groups outside the agencies can say about it.''
 Gina McCarthy, commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, helped fine-tune the legislation into something that the administration of Governor Rell could support: firm goals with a flexible means to achieve them. The legislation was also designed to be in keeping with the governor's stated desire to use such energy policies as economic development opportunities.
 ''I don't think the be-all and end-all is mandatory climate caps; Connecticut has had that commitment regardless of whether it's mandatory,'' Ms. McCarthy said. ''It's not a magic pill. It still means you need to make investments and you need to make changes.'' 
 Opponents in Connecticut, generally business groups and power companies, said they preferred to wait for the next presidential administration, which is believed more likely than the current one to set limits on greenhouse gas emissions. They also argued it would be better to see the effects of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (known by its acronym, RGGI, pronounced ''reggie'') which later this year initiates a multistate cap and trade system for power plants in the Northeast.
 Eric Brown, associate counsel for the Connecticut Business and Industry Association, echoed the concern of several energy companies that a cap would push energy prices higher. ''The high cost of energy in this state is a major factor in driving business out of Connecticut and discouraging new business from coming into Connecticut,'' Mr. Brown said. ''This bill will do nothing more than exacerbate that trend.''
 Robert Repetto, a professor at the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, said that attaching a cost to the emission of greenhouse gases is the key to effective legislation and a way to make the necessary political impact.
 ''RGGI and the California cap have been quite important primarily because they have been partially responsible for bringing about a change in the political stance of big business in this country,'' he said, adding that businesses are facing the reality that states are taking action even if the federal government is not. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: UNITED: Gov. M. Jodi Rell of Connecticut, center right, met with, from left, Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, Gov. Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas, President Richard C. Levin of Yale and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California last month to urge federal action on climate change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: CARBON EMISSIONS: Greenhouse gas emissions from transport sources have climbed in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut since 1997. Electricitygeneration emissions fell in 2006 as power plants switched to natural gas, which was cheaper and cleaner. (Sources: Environment Northeast
 Energy Information Agency) Chart showing a decline in greenhouse gas emissions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); POWER PLANTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (55%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (73%); JON CORZINE (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



119 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: MAY 4, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 SOCCER STAR PUSHES LIMITS
 Of Brazilian Forgiveness
 Much is forgiven in Rio de Janeiro, where sexual tolerance extends to legal prostitution. But since the soccer star known worldwide simply as Ronaldo was questioned by the police there after he invited three male, cross-dressing prostitutes to a pay-by-the-hour motel room, the response by some fans has not included pardon. PAGE 14
 VOTE VERIFICATION SOUGHT
 Leaders of Zimbabwe's opposition party were making a last-ditch diplomatic push to persuade the African Union and a bloc of southern African nations to insist on a verifiable vote count, following Friday's declaration that the opposition candidate had fallen short of a clear victory in the March presidential election. PAGE 22 
 PALESTINIANS SEEK SUPPORT
 Palestinians say they hope that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will ''take a stand'' on the borders of a future Palestinian state and define them during Israeli-Palestinian peace talks as corresponding with the 1967 lines. But the Bush administration has made it clear that the future borders must be settled in direct talks between the parties. PAGE 6
 NATIONAL
 INDIANA'S CULTURAL STEW
 Poses Primary Puzzle
 In trying to appeal to Indiana, the Democratic presidential candidates have their work cut out for them. Politically, culturally, economically and linguistically, there are at least three Indianas, and maybe four or five or more. ''I don't know how any of these candidates can suit everyone in Indiana,'' one resident said. PAGE 24
 NOT JUST ACADEMIC
 Kent Gramm appreciates that Wheaton College, his Christian liberal arts employer, tolerates divorce only under limited circumstances. And so he is resigning from his job as a professor of English and creative writing. But that doesn't mean he agrees that he should, and some others are questioning the policy, too. PAGE 26
 NEW YORK REPORT
 THE STEADY LEGACY
 Of a Jiggly Dessert
 The factory making it may have closed more than 40 years ago, but Jell-O is still enticing people to Le Roy, N.J., its birthplace. It all starts with the Jell-O Brick Road and moves on to the advertising exhibit, the molds, the baseball cards, the preserved sturgeon bladder and a calf's hoof -- hey, what are they doing there? PAGE 41
 LIFE WITH A PURPOSE
 Chris Pendergast has no idea why he's still alive today. By all rights, the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, diagnosed in 1993 should have killed him years ago. But here he is, still alive, still making his annual wheelchair ride to call attention to the need for more research into the disease. Our Towns, Peter Applebome. PAGE 39
 ATLAS SCRUBBED
 He's been out in the open for 71 years, bearing the weight of all the heavens on his shoulders. So it should come as no surprise that the four-story Atlas at the base of the International Building in Rockefeller Center could use a little sprucing up. PAGE 44 
 SPORTS
 AN OLD LION OF BASEBALL 
 Looking at Today's Game
 The letters came, every so often, from Buzzie Bavasi, one of baseball's old lions, and sometimes he voiced a regret or an observation about today's players. ''Because of expansion, there are 140 pitchers in the majors today that had it not been for expansion would have Paducah across their shirts,'' he wrote once. Sports of The Times, Dave Anderson. PAGE 5
 TIME LOST TO HARD TIME
 Bennie Heard is doing what few people in his position would even consider: resuscitating his boxing career at age 48, after two decades away in prison. He has floored three opponents since his release in 2006 and has an undercard spot on a Showtime title event next month. ''I want to shock the world,'' he said, words that call to mind a certain other boxer. PAGE 5
 THE MAGAZINE
 TREATING URBAN VIOLENCE
 Like an Infectious Disease
 If gang shootings and revenge killings were infectious diseases, how would you stop them? A Chicago epidemiologist thinks he has the answer. PAGE 52
 QUEEN OF THE NEW AGE
 How the publisher Louise Hay unified psychics, mind-healers, angel therapists and positive thinkers of all varieties into a self-help spirituality empire. PAGE 60
 Sunday Business
 CAN CIT SURVIVE
 The Credit Crisis?
 Jeffrey M. Peek, the chief executive of the CIT Group, steered his traditionally risk-averse company into the seemingly lucrative subprime mortgage and student loan markets. But now that those markets have tumbled -- dragging CIT's stock price down with them -- the company's future will probably hinge on how well it weathers the storm in the credit markets and the possibility of a recession. Mr. Peek, though, says he would not have done anything differently. PAGE 1
 OBITUARIES
 PETER HOWARD, 80
 He arranged the dance music, composed the incidental music or conducted the orchestra for many of Broadway's biggest hits, and sometimes did all three of those underappreciated jobs. PAGE 37
 SUMMER MOVIES
 OTHER THAN HEROES, 
 The Ones to Watch
 The movie season looks to be full of heroes, super and otherwise: the Incredible Hulk, Indiana Jones, Speed Racer, Maxwell Smart, Batman, Mulder and Scully among them. But if you're looking for four scene stealers to watch, look elsewhere. (Hint: You probably thought one was a waif.) PAGE 15
 Arts & Leisure
 RIDING THE ART BUBBLE, 
 But for How Long?
 At a London auction three months ago, a triptych by Frances Bacon sold for $51.6 million, and sales estimates for other auctions are equally optimistic. But the art market is feeling the economic anxiety that is affecting other markets, which means that auction houses are taking more risks to sell their wares, and many wonder how long the big sales numbers will hold up. PAGE 1
 THE ROOTS IN LIMBO
 The Roots have defiantly carved out a distinctive niche in hip-hop, eschewing samples for live instrumentation and touring relentlessly. But that independent streak makes the band no stranger to label drama. Now it finds itself in danger of not having a record deal following the release of its latest album, ''Rising Down.'' Which, its members say, might be a good thing. PAGE 16
 T MAGAZINE
 A DRINK THAT OFFENDS
 Two Types of Snobs
 Let's face it, if the perfect hangover cure were to exist, the hung over would want it to be some variation of hair of the dog. Like, as some claim it is, a Black Velvet, equal parts Champagne and stout. Is it worth experimenting on the recipe? PAGE 54
 Travel
 PERU'S UNTAPPED WAVES, 
 A Surfer's Paradise
 Peru's shores boast swells that rival those in Hawaii, making it an ideal spot for surfers but also something of a secret, with prime surfing beaches half-empty. But driven by a favorable exchange rate for bargain-minded Americans and the sudden popularity of surfing there, Peru is poised to become a major destination for wave riders. PAGE 1 
 36 HOURS IN ATHENS
 Athens, all concrete and crowds, used to be an appetizer for travelers headed for the Greek Isles. But the city is trying to recast its image as more than just archaeological sites and nightlife by opening new museums and galleries and some tasty rustic regional cuisine. ''Not a bad warm-up for Mykonos,'' Joanna Kakissis says. PAGE 13
 Sunday Styles
 NOT ON OUR BLOG 
 After being name-checked on the official blog for a popular TV show, Jezebel.com, a cliquish, irreverent blog whose authors fancy it an antidote to glossy fashion magazines, saw a big spike in its readership. The site diverges from other blogs run by its parent company, Gawker Media, in another way: Wittiness is encouraged, but viciousness is not. PAGE 1
 Automobiles
 FOR FORD'S LAST JAGUAR,
 What's Inside Counts
 The concept car version of the Jaguar XF -- the last Jaguar developed by Ford -- won applause at the 2007 Detroit auto show, but a lot was lost from the exterior design during the long trip to the showroom floor. But if consumers can erase the concept XF from their minds, they may find plenty to be wowed by on this car's inside, like the plush leather, the premium sound system, and controls that activate by passing a hand over them. PAGE 1
 Real Estate
 A CASE OF CONDO ENVY
 In New York's booming condominium market, buyers are often shocked at how far the bar has been raised by new construction, where features like swimming pools and oversizebathrooms have become par for the course. ''They feel something's being stolen from them, even though they can't afford it,'' one real estate agent said. PAGE 1
 BOOK REVIEW
 'SLAUGHTERHOUSE-FIVE'
 Didn't Say It All
 It is enough, for some of us, simply to know that a new book exists containing previously unpublished work by Kurt Vonnegut. For those who need a nudge, Roy Blount Jr. in his review says the book, ''Armageddon in Retrospect,'' contains the strongest piece by Vonnegut he has ever read. Oh, and the piece is about Dresden. PAGE 16
 NEST MINUS EGG
 In ''While America Aged,'' the writer Roger Lowenstein says the country is ''sitting on a retirement time bomb.'' No, not Social Security, which he considers manageable. He means the private pension system. PAGE 6
 Week in Review
 LSD GETS A SECOND LOOK
 Albert Hofmann, the chemist who discovered LSD, often called the drug his ''problem child.'' But before he died last week, he learned that health officials in his native Switzerland had given the go-ahead for the first medical trial of the psychotropic drug in 35 years. PAGE 3
 EDITORIAL: 
 Missing Returns
 The extent of a candidate's candor is a good measure of how candid he or she will be in the White House. Unfortunately, there has been a lack of transparency in this campaign on both health and family finances. PAGE 11
 EDITORIAL:
 Hard Times at the Door
 In these tough economic times, millions of Latino immigrants have stopped sending money to their home countries. That is bad news for a lot of people. PAGE 11
 OP-ED:
 Nicholas D. Kristof
 New glimpses into Guantanamo Bay suggest two essential truths: Most prisoners were probably innocent all along, and torture has been routine. PAGE 13
 OP-ED:
 Maureen Dowd
 Drinking a cold Bud, Obama struggles to return to the roots he struggled to leave. PAGE 13
 OP-ED:
 Frank Rich
 John McCain's venom-spouting preacher just doesn't have the same telegenic zing of an angry black man. PAGE 12
 OP-ED:
 Thomas L. Friedman
 A totally unscientific poll has shown that if there is one overwhelming hunger in our country today, it's this: People want to do nation-building. They really do. But they want to do nation-building in America. PAGE 12

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SOCCER (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PROSTITUTION (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); BASEBALL (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PARDONS (71%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); RESIGNATIONS (64%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (63%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (63%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%) INDIANA, USA (93%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZIMBABWE (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFRICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



120 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Not on Our Blog You Won't

BYLINE: By LAUREN LIPTON

 BODY:
AT 12:04 P.M. on April 25, a skirmish broke out on Jezebel.com. 
 It began when the upstart Web site for women, whose slogan is ''Celebrity, sex, fashion. Without airbrushing,'' posted a photo of Angelina Jolie in a low-cut yellow dress. As part of a popular feature called Snap Judgment, readers offered biting comments on everything from Ms. Jolie's eye-popping neckline to her possible state of mind. 
 Then a commenter with the screen name Calraigh wrote that, despite being pregnant, Ms. Jolie looked like ''an Ethiopian famine victim.'' Within minutes, a half-dozen angry readers had made their own snap judgments of Calraigh:
 ''You're gross.'' 
 ''Are you serious?'' 
 ''That comment is inappropriate. I don't know what website you think you are on, but that is not how we roll.'' 
 The Jezebel blog was founded last spring by Gawker Media as a smart, feisty antidote to traditional women's magazines (or ''glossy insecurity factories,'' as Jezebel describes them). It quickly developed a loyal following and has seen an influx of new visitors, after being name-checked on the official blog for ''Gossip Girl,'' the prime-time soap opera.
 But as Jezebel's first anniversary approaches on May 21, its readers and editors are learning a lesson right out of high school: popularity has its pitfalls, and mean-girl behavior is hard to quash. 
 Some readers, in comments on the site, have accused editors of political bias and misogyny. Readers have called one another, by turns, immature, boring and cliquish. This spring the editors responded by banishing certain commenters and putting others ''on notice'' for being nasty or, worse, not funny.
 ''I feel like Jezebel is a club more than a blog,'' wrote Elizabeth Palin, 26, an accountant from Fayetteville, N.C., who comments under the screen name Muffyn. 
 All this over a Web site that set out to be -- dare one say it? -- nice.
 When Anna Holmes, the managing editor of Jezebel, was hired to create what her new employers described to her as a ''girly Gawker,'' she thought long and hard about how much of its parent company's infamous snarkiness to adopt.
 ''I wanted Jezebel to be welcoming,'' Ms. Holmes said during a rare weekday foray out of her home office in Long Island City.
 WRITTEN and edited by a staff of seven women, the blog mixes style commentary and gossip with no-holds-barred posts about politics, the economy, sexism and, certainly, sex.
 Recent posts -- they go up about every 15 minutes from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. on weekdays -- include commentary on Texas polygamists, a discussion about fertility and a critique of Scarlett Johansson's singing skills. There are regular features such as Pot Psychology, in which Tracie Egan, an editor, answers readers' sex questions while under the influence of marijuana, and Cover Lies, a send-up of women's magazines. (One, in April, bore the headline, ''Well Isn't the Cosmo 'Sexy Issue' Just a Sexy Breath of Fresh Sexual Sexy Sex Air!'')
 Though the site is still plenty snarky, it steers clear of the vicious remarks about age and weight one finds elsewhere on gossip blogs. Readers of Jezebel find the kinder tone appealing.
 ''I actually was a commenter on Gawker,'' says Jessica Young, 28, a Brooklyn graduate student. ''When Jezebel came up, I almost immediately switched over.'' 
 With fewer than 360,000 unique visitors most months, according to Nielsen Online, Jezebel doesn't come close in scope to larger women's sites such as iVillage. But in February, after the ''Gossip Girl'' blog mention, Jezebel saw a spike in traffic, garnering more than an estimated half-million unique visitors for the month, according to Nielsen.
 To date, Jezebel's best month for unique visitors remains July 2007. That month, it posted a photograph of the country music singer Faith Hill, without the significant Photoshop work the shot had received when it was published on the cover of Redbook. 
 Jezebel paid an undisclosed source $10,000 for the raw photo and concluded that the image had been doctored 11 different ways, the blog said: Ms. Hill's hair had been digitally thickened, her arms slimmed and her clavicles softened. The post landed Ms. Holmes on NBC's ''Today'' show and has garnered over a million page views to date, according to the site. 
 ''It was not one of my favorite moments,'' said Stacy Morrison, the editor-in-chief of Redbook. 
 ''Encouraging people to steal proprietary information was a somewhat dubious beginning, but I get it,'' she said. ''Gossip is fun, which is probably why all the assistants look at Jezebel.'' Ms. Morrison said the site is off the radar of most of her readers, many of whom live in ''parts of the country that aren't attached to fashion and flash.'' 
 Like a digital-age upgrade of Sassy, the 1990s-era indie-feminist teenage magazine, Jezebel appeals to a young, urban demographic, with a roster of editors whose strong voices inspire loyal followings. Ms. Egan shares details of her intimate life that are not safe for work. Maureen Tkacik, the site's features editor, who is known as Moe, gravitates toward politics and speaks out against what she calls the ''idiocracy.'' Dodai Stewart, the senior editor, pokes fun at magazines and catalogs; in a feature called LOLVogue, she writes satirical captions for fashion spreads.
 Jezebel's readers -- they often call themselves ''Jezzies'' or ''Jezebelles''-- are permitted to post to the site after a first prospective comment is approved by a Gawker Media staffer, and must adhere to some basic rules: be witty and relevant, no whining and don't attack people. 
 Still, such attacks -- on one another, and on the editors -- happen regularly. When Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton won the New Hampshire primary after getting teary-eyed at a campaign event, Ms. Tkacik fired off a furious rant, accusing women of voting with their emotions. One commenter, a 28-year-old Brooklyn medical biller who uses the screen name SinisterRouge, wrote back: ''Seriously, Moe, I know you love Obama. But to say women just up and voted for her because she cries is retarded.'' 
 (Ms. Tkacik, along with Ms. Holmes and Jessica Grose, an associate editor, have contributed freelance articles to Sunday Styles. This reporter has posted comments on Jezebel.com.) 
 In an interview, Ms. Tkacik said she has been called far worse names by Jezebel readers. ''For a while,'' she said, ''I was like, 'Where does this desire to really hate me on a personal level come from?' '' 
 In March, Ms. Holmes publicly banned some commenters she believed had frequently crossed the line, and issued warnings to others, including SinisterRouge. Instead of showing support for Ms. Holmes's decision, many readers declared loyalty to the warned Jezebelles, including a core group of longtime commenters who privately identify themselves as ''cool kids.'' 
 These core commenters have become friends online and in real life, spinning off their own blogs (such as ButtercupPunch, which has as its slogan ''La clique, c'est chic!'') and creating Jezebel Facebook groups. In New York, Jezebelles meet regularly for drinks; in mid-April, almost two dozen old-guard Jezebelles from across the country rented a house in Tennessee for a weekend get-together. (Highlights of the weekend included a pilgrimage to Dollywood.) 
 Some longtime commenters say the site's recent ''Gossip Girl''-related influx of readers is ruining Jezebel. 
 ''I miss the old days,'' said Mary Brewer, one of the old guard who identified herself as an over-35 researcher from the South. ''I think we grew really fast, and all of a sudden, it seems like people are just slipping through that shouldn't be commenting.'' 
 ''We're not there to talk about the prom,'' she said. ''I don't want to hear 'Totes cool' or 'She's cute.' I'm in it for the snark.'' 
 Jezebel's editors are continuing to work on these problems. They've hired a moderator to keep better tabs on commenters, and they reach out to their readers to a degree that might be astonishing to magazine editors. A few weeks ago, Ms. Tkacik went out for drinks with SinisterRouge, her sometime sparring partner, in the West Village. Despite their political differences, the two women bonded. 
 ''We sat there and drank and joked. It was a really good time,'' Ms. Tkacik said. ''She's just really funny, totally one of those girls who'll say whatever.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE TEAM: From left: Tracie Egan, Maria-Mercedes Lara, Moe Tkacik, Jennifer Gerson, Anna Holmes, Dodai Stewart and Jessica Grose of Jezebel.com.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST1)
CELEBRATE: Jezebel.com's one-year anniversary is this month.
 BEWARE: Anna Holmes has issued warnings and bans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WOMEN (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); FAMINE (55%); PARENT COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (74%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



121 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2989 words

HEADLINE: A Lender Gets Caught in the Currents

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
WALKING across his sun-drenched office overlooking Fifth Avenue and the New York Public Library, Jeffrey M. Peek points to a picture on his desk. It is a perfect family portrait, filled with smiling, happy faces on a mountain summit. Perfect, except for one detail: there's a problem with the guy in the far left corner.
 ''An ex-boyfriend of my daughter,'' he explains, laughing. ''I'm trying to figure out a way to cut him out of the picture.'' 
 These days, Mr. Peek, the chief executive of the CIT Group, is trying to erase lots of things from the past: namely, an ill-timed expansion by CIT into subprime-mortgage lending and the costly acquisition of a student loan firm -- twin moves carried out near the top of frothy markets that quickly collapsed, leaving CIT on the financial precipice. 
 In its 100-year history, CIT has traditionally engaged in the meat-and-potatoes business of providing loans and leases for heavy machinery, tech equipment and other staples of the manufacturing economy. 
 But under Mr. Peek, CIT spread its wings, offering a tour of the perils awaiting any firm that jumps into seemingly lucrative new arenas at the expense of focusing on markets that it knows and understands best.
 Mr. Peek, a 61-year-old Wall Street veteran who lost out several years ago in a race to run Merrill Lynch, led CIT down that path and is now scrambling to keep his company afloat. 
 Despite the obvious strains under which CIT now labors -- a plummeting stock price, mounting losses, funding woes and a loss of faith among some analysts -- Mr. Peek says he wouldn't have done anything differently.
 Although he endured elective heart surgery last year, Mr. Peek appears to be in the brightest of health. Asked if he's been under stress during the last few weeks as analysts question whether CIT will remain solvent or be sold off, he offers a brief, reluctant nod. But when asked if he has any regrets, he thoughtfully shakes his head. No. 
 ''If I was going to look back, maybe I would have gotten out of mortgages a couple of quarters earlier, but we were making good money,'' he says, matter-of-factly. As for the student loan firm, that was a success, he says, because its asset base grew sharply -- even though CIT has had to take big write-downs on the business.
 Since taking the helm at CIT three years ago, Mr. Peek, who with his wife, the New York Sun business columnist Liz Peek, is a fixture on Manhattan's social circuit, turned CIT into a reliable patron of the arts and relocated the company from an office park in Livingston, N.J., to a flashy modern tower on Fifth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan.
 By most accounts, Mr. Peek, who owns homes in Westchester County and Nantucket and often has lavish parties at his Upper East Side apartment near the home of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, is something of an anomaly in the kill-or-be-killed world of high finance: He's a nice guy. 
 He also tried to set a course to diversify CIT's business lines and bolster returns at this sleepy, risk-averse firm, which competitors joked was filled with ''pocket protectors.'' Along the way, he recruited highly paid investment bankers and later bought an investment banking boutique to generate more Wall Street-like fees from CIT's small-to-midsize clients.
 Mr. Peek's supporters say that all of this amounted to a very sound and savvy strategy -- when it was first conceived.
 ''The effort by the company to build on its core competencies and diversify the business in advance of this credit cycle, looking at it on a blank sheet of paper, was a sensible one,'' said Greg Fleming, president and chief operating officer of Merrill Lynch, who worked with Mr. Peek during his time there. ''I don't think the diversification was so dramatic that it took the company so far away from its core.''
 Au contraire, CIT's critics say.
 ''They should have stuck to their knitting,'' says Richard Hofmann, an analyst at CreditSights, an independent research firm. ''I think that they would have been better off if they hadn't moved more into subprime and student lending, because they didn't have any discernable competitive advantage against the big banks in mortgages and Sallie Mae and the big banks in student lending.''
 Now, CIT's future is likely to hinge on how it weathers the credit crisis and the possibility of a severe recession.
 ''The big question here is, is this a viable company and is there a feasible strategy for it, short of selling everything it can and then selling what's left to someone else?'' asks Kathleen Shanley, an analyst at Gimme Credit, an independent research firm. 
 WHILE CIT has held its own, more or less, for a century, the company also tended to be crushed whenever it tried to take advantage of the latest, hottest market trends.
 In the mid-1990s, under Albert R. Gamper Jr., then its chief executive, CIT moved more of its business into consumer lending and was battered when loans soured in manufactured housing, boats and recreational vehicles. 
 Watching from the sidelines as the dot-com balloon swelled, Mr. Gamper decided to acquire a Canadian technology leasing company, the Newcourt Credit Group, closing the deal in 1999. But when the tech bubble burst, CIT was again hit with losses.
 Weakened, CIT was sold in 2001 to Tyco International. That deal also went south as an accounting scandal at Tyco caused ratings agencies to downgrade Tyco's creditworthiness -- blocking CIT's access to its financial lifeline, short-term loans known as commercial paper. 
 Mr. Gamper, who had stayed with the CIT unit after it was sold to Tyco, had to find other sources of emergency funding to stay in business, and by mid-2002 Tyco had spun off CIT for about half of what it had paid a year earlier. 
 Battered and bruised by the Tyco episode and, according to those close to him, wanting ever so badly to retire, Mr. Gamper set out to find a successor. Mr. Gamper declined to respond to repeated interview requests.
 ''He had a number of false starts, people he approached that didn't go anywhere,'' recalls Thomas H. Kean, the former New Jersey governor who was twice a CIT director. ''Then we were told as a board by Al that there was a chance, possibly, of attracting Jeff and that he was Gamper's choice.''
 Mr. Peek joined CIT as its president in late 2003 with the understanding that he would later be named chief executive. ''I don't think he got much of any increase in salary,'' Mr. Kean says. ''He was really anxious to run his own company and put his own mark on something.''
 In securing Mr. Peek's services, CIT got an executive with Midwestern roots. He says his father, Merl, ran the United States Senate's press office during the Eisenhower administration and later was a corporate secretary for an oil products company in Des Plaines, Ill. His mother had a music degree and passed on her appreciation -- though, Mr. Peek notes, not necessarily her abilities in his case -- to her three children.
 A graduate of Princeton, Mr. Peek opted to get an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School after being waitlisted for admission to law school. He graduated from Harvard in 1972. Instead of immediately heading for Wall Street, he briefly sold commercial real estate before answering a newspaper ad for a job at the investment bank A. G. Becker.
 In 1983, Mr. Peek was recruited to the big leagues: a job in the financial institutions group at Merrill Lynch, where he thrived. When he became head of the group, he increased Merrill's share of that business. Later, he took over investment research and asset management, where he tackled the challenges of turning around Merrill's underperforming mutual funds and integrating various acquisitions.
 By early 2000, Mr. Peek landed on a short list of contenders to succeed David H. Komansky as Merrill's chief executive. That eventually set up a horse race between Mr. Peek and E. Stanley O'Neal, head of the United States private client group at Merrill at the time. Mr. Peek lost.
 ''I met with Komansky and told him Jeff would be the better choice,'' said Barry S. Friedberg, who was a senior executive with Merrill at the time. ''Jeff had a better range of experience, he was a natural leader and was popular with the troops.'' 
 Mr. Komansky, however, recommended to the board that Mr. O'Neal fill his shoes. Mr. Komansky did not respond to an interview request. ''Jeff was disappointed. Anyone would be disappointed,'' Mr. Friedberg recalls. ''But he didn't become dysfunctional or get himself all tied up in knots about it.''
 After Mr. O'Neal took over, he signaled that Mr. Peek's tenure at Merrill was at an end in 2001 by having an underling show Mr. Peek a new organizational chart that didn't include his name, according to one person with direct knowledge of the event who requested anonymity because of a severance agreement with Merrill.
 MR. PEEK'S next stop was at the side of another Wall Street potentate, John J. Mack, then the chief executive of Credit Suisse First Boston, another major investment bank. Mr. Peek ran the firm's asset management, clearing and high-net-worth client businesses, but times were tough at the bank. It was in the cross hairs of regulators for its activities during the dot-com bubble, and it lacked the resources to expand Mr. Peek's businesses. 
 In early 2003, Credit Suisse First Boston sold its clearing business, leaving Mr. Peek's turf there greatly diminished. A few months later, he surprised his friends and colleagues by leaving to join CIT, a staid, mid-market lender.
 Mr. Mack, who disputes suggestions by acquaintances of both men that he and Mr. Peek had clashed, says that ''CIT was a bigger opportunity'' for Mr. Peek. Others who know Mr. Peek say he saw CIT as a platform for building a small financial empire, drawing on the experience he gained at Merrill.
 ''He wanted to make it a broader platform and he had sentimental and emotional ties to the businesses he was engaged in at Merrill during his career,'' says a banker who has known Mr. Peek for years but declined to be identified because he did not get approval from Mr. Peek to be interviewed for this article. ''He felt deeply frustrated by the Merrill experience. He felt he deserved a seat at the table as C.E.O.''
 But Mr. Peek says his goals at CIT had nothing to do with empire-building. ''We were never going to turn CIT into an investment bank,'' he says, shaking his head and laughing.
 He said he wanted to reorient CIT's sales force away from credit-and-risk management and more toward finding ways to sell new and more profitable services to clients. To that end, he also pursued multiple acquisitions, mostly smallish deals that he argued would diversify the business and offer higher returns.
 ''I think the core commercial finance business needed to be reinvigorated and reworked,'' Mr. Peek says. ''The company had gone through five years of difficult times.''
 And, of course, he moved aggressively into consumer lending. He ramped up CIT's existing home-lending activities and acquired the Education Lending Group, a student loan consolidation company, for $381 million in early 2005. CIT paid a 24 percent premium for Education Lending, causing some hedge fund managers to joke that CIT's chief had a fitting name -- he bought at the ''peak'' of the market.
 Even CIT's new Manhattan headquarters, which featured a lobby adorned with dark stone floors limned by moody purple lighting, made some eyes roll. Some said it looked more like a nightclub lobby than the entryway to a business run by a plain-vanilla commercial financier.
 ''The reality is that's a business that ought to be run out of New Jersey,'' says the banker who has known Mr. Peek for years. ''You don't need a high-tech boardroom with teleconferencing to handle clients like Dunkin' Donuts.''
 A spokeswoman for CIT said that it moved into the new headquarters because that is where its customers were and it received favorable leasing terms on the building. She noted that the lobby's design was by the artist James Turrell.
 Early into his CIT tenure, Mr. Peek also channeled his appreciation for the arts through personal donations and CIT's own philanthropic endeavors, particularly with nonprofit organizations and cultural centers in New York.
 ''CIT is among the top 15 percent of our corporate donors and that all happened under Jeff,'' said Jane M. Gullong, executive director of the New York City Opera. ''Jeff is very present and participates in city opera activities. And his wife, Liz, who has her own career, makes civic life in New York and culture a big part of her life.''
 The financial engine that made all of this possible -- the new headquarters, very visible public giving, and the like -- were CIT's profits. 
 At the end of 2006, CIT posted earnings of more than $1 billion for the year, nearly double what it earned in 2003, when Mr. Peek joined the firm. At the heart of this performance was commercial lending, which accounted for the bulk of CIT's profits. 
 But the volume of home lending and student lending had soared at CIT, setting the stage for a sharp reversal of fortune when those markets soured. 
 The first hint that 2007 wasn't going to be easy came in late March, when Mr. Peek had an elective open-heart surgery that left him out of the office for about two weeks, according to a CIT spokesman. CIT says that Mr. Peek continued to work and hold meetings from home during this period. CIT said it decided not to disclose the surgery because it viewed it as an immaterial event; the company's board, however, was informed about the operation.
 After returning to work, Mr. Peek faced a growing scandal. Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York attorney general, had issued subpoenas to CIT and its student loan arm as part of an investigation into pay-for-play practices involving lending officers at schools and colleges.
 CIT said that some of the top executives at its student-lending unit misled the company and have since left. CIT paid $3 million to a national educational fund to settle the investigation.
 Later that same year, Congress passed a new law cutting federal subsidies to student loan providers, sharply reducing profits for CIT's student-lending group.
 ''The education lending acquisition was the right thing to do,'' Mr. Peek says. ''It was a successful deal and nobody thought the government would pull the rug out from under us.''
 Even so, the company had other problems on its hands. The subprime market was in tatters and CIT's losses were mounting. After a loss in the second quarter of 2007 that stunned investors, CIT announced that it was quitting the home-lending business. While it has sold some loans, CIT still holds about $9 billion in mortgage loans, most of which are subprime, on its books. 
 CIT ended 2007 with a loss of $111 million, or 58 cents a share, a sharp reversal from the $1 billion in earnings it reported just a year earlier. Facing a mountain of debt that was maturing this year -- $9.7 billion, with $3.8 billion alone coming due or needing to be refinanced this month -- CIT went to the well. 
 CIT was in a corner that many financial lenders without their own, independent source of funds sometimes confront when times are hard. To stay in business, it had to draw down its entire $7.3 billion line of backup bank credit in late March.
 The company's stock has also been pummeled over the last year. It closed on Friday at $12.91 a share, far below its 52-week high of $61.47, reached last June. 
 MR. PEEK'S defenders -- and there are many -- say his diversification strategy made perfect sense and meshed well with CIT's other business lines. CIT, like so many other firms on Wall Street, simply fell victim to the subprime collapse and, then, the resulting credit crisis, they say.
 Others who do business with him say that his amiable nature and courtly ways complemented his goals at CIT. He is, they say, a superb ''relationship manager,'' capable of glad-handing with the best of them. 
 ''Even with all of the big stuff he has going on, he called me about a month ago to make sure our relationship was going smoothly,'' said Kenny Dichter, the chief executive of Marquis Jet, which offers prepaid cards for private jet travel. (Mr. Peek is a customer of Marquis Jet, which has also received CIT funding over the years.) 
 For now, CIT is in batten-down-the-hatches survival mode. Mr. Peek has taken steps that he believes will allow the company to ride out much of the credit crisis into next year.
 Besides pulling down its backup credit lines, CIT raised $1.5 billion in new equity in late April. It has also put a railcar leasing business with about $4 billion in assets on the block and has said it plans to sell an additional $1 billion to $3 billion worth of assets over the next year. 
 The trick for the company, analysts say, will be to avoid having to engage in a fire sale at rock-bottom rates if buyers sense that CIT is desperate to raise funds. For his part, Mr. Peek thinks that CIT has all the money it needs to make it through the coming year. 
 ''I'm optimistic -- I see more liquidity coming into the market,'' he says. ''If my optimism is misplaced and we have a recession or housing prices continue to decline, we've built a balance sheet for that.''
 He also says he plans to re-embrace CIT's commercial lending roots. He plans to focus solely on lending and leasing to small- and medium-sized companies with the biggest goal, perhaps, to expand more overseas. But the high-flying consumer lending days are over for CIT, he says.
 As for those pesky naysayers who argue that there's no place in today's financial world for a company like CIT, Mr. Peek respectfully disagrees. ''In commercial finance, we have good market share or are the leaders in the market in many areas,'' he says. ''This is a 100-year-old company, so there is obviously some rationale for its existence.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey M. Peek, of CIT, at its new Manhattan headquarters. The company's stock has plunged with the credit collapse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHARLIE POWELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); EXECUTIVES (55%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%)

COMPANY: CIT GROUP INC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

TICKER: CIT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: JEFFREY M PEEK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



122 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; GOVERNMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Rell Sits, Waits and Wonders About Seeking Re-election

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 BEFORE Gov. M. Jodi Rell decides whether to run for another term in 2010, she wants to see what happens in November's state and national elections, she said in a recent interview.
 Mrs. Rell, a Republican, said the outcome of the fall elections was important because she wants to know whether she will once again be confronted with an ''overwhelming number'' of Democrats in the General Assembly who could override her policies, and whether the next president will be someone ''who understands states' rights.''
 ''Are we going to be fighting every single battle for the next four years?'' she wondered as she sat at a table in front of a fireplace in her second-floor office in the State Capitol. ''I think it gives you pause.''
 Although Mrs. Rell has the highest job approval ratings of any elected official in modern Connecticut history, she has had a difficult time getting the Democratic-controlled House and Senate to approve some key policy proposals. 
 Democrats have repeatedly rejected the governor's plans for eliminating local property taxes on motor vehicles and placing a limit on local property tax increases.
 Her call to break up the State Department of Transportation in order to provide stronger support for mass transit has been put on hold, and she has repeatedly clashed with Democratic leaders over her proposal for a tougher state law making life in prison mandatory for violent repeat offenders.
 Democrats currently have a veto-proof majority in the State House of Representatives, but they lost their supermajority in the State Senate in a recent special election.
 Mrs. Rell pointed out that she had been able to work cooperatively with the Democratic majorities in the General Assembly in recent years on issues ranging from major increases in state funding for local education and transportation to public campaign financing.
 But those were in far better economic times, when the state had huge budget surpluses. The recent downturn in state revenues has led Mrs. Rell and Democratic leaders to consider making no changes to the two-year budget plan passed in 2007.
 In her original budget proposal in February, Mrs. Rell called for increased manpower for the State Police and prison staffs, as well as higher state financing for everything from truck inspections to nursing school scholarships.
 The governor has also expressed frustration with the Bush administration and Congress, blaming them for failing to come up with a coherent national energy policy.
 A bill approved by the state House of Representatives to have Connecticut join New Jersey and three other states in efforts to have state agencies control greenhouse gas emissions is drawing praise from Mrs. Rell, although she has not yet said whether she will sign the measure into law if it is passed by the Senate.
 ''We need the federal government to step up right now,'' she said. ''We cannot exist, whether as the State of Connecticut or the United States of America, on $120-a-barrel oil. It's killing us as a state, and it's doing the same thing on the national level.''
 Despite those frictions, the governor faces the start of Connecticut's political season well positioned to hang on to the office if she decides to run. But whether she wants to take on another term is still the big question for Mrs. Rell, a 61-year-old grandmother and cancer survivor who was catapulted from her low-key role as lieutenant governor in July 2004 to replace former Gov. John G. Rowland, who resigned amid a corruption scandal.
 Mrs. Rell said she was getting lots of pressure from supporters ''pushing me to say I'm going to run again.'' But she said she was not quite ready to say yes, even though she has created an exploratory campaign committee that allows her to start raising money now.
 ''If you have to ask me right now, I'm more likely to say yes than no, but I'm not going to commit,'' she said. Her hesitation is causing headaches for hopefuls for governor in both parties who recognize they could be taking on a popular incumbent.
 After taking over for Mr. Rowland, Mrs. Rell vowed to rid the government of what she described as Connecticut's ''culture of corruption.'' During the last four years, she has co-opted traditional Democratic issues like campaign finance reform, state aid for local schools and mass transportation.
 She has also sharply criticized many of President Bush's unpopular domestic policies on energy and the environment, and has distanced herself from many of his stances on issues like stem cell research and abortion rights.
 Some possible challengers are already emerging. One potential Democratic rival, House Speaker James A. Amann of Milford, recently stunned his legislative allies by announcing he will retire from the General Assembly at the end of the year to concentrate on his ambitions for governor.
 ''I don't think she's running in 2010,'' Mr. Amann said when asked why he would risk running against Mrs. Rell. ''It's a gut feeling.''
 Top Republicans, including Lt. Gov. Michael Fedele of Stamford and Chris Healy, the state Republican chairman, are equally convinced that Mrs. Rell will seek another term. ''I think she's running,'' Mr. Healy said confidently.
 Not long ago, Mrs. Rell appeared unlikely to become such a dominant figure in state politics. After serving nine relatively obscure years as a state representative and another nine as a lieutenant governor, she was known as someone liked by almost everyone at the State Capitol -- and feared by none.
 But the scandal that forced Mr. Rowland to resign as governor and later sent him to federal prison pushed Mrs. Rell into the national spotlight.
 She has been dubbed the ''Snow White'' of Connecticut politics, because, in a political era that has seen governors of three Northeastern states toppled by personal scandal, Mrs. Rell has managed to maintain a reputation for uprightness that seems to appeal to voters of all parties. 
 ''Her job-approval ratings have been over 70 percent in every poll we've done,'' said Douglas Schwartz, director of the Quinnipiac University Poll. ''We've never seen any elected official be this high for this long.''
 Arthur Paulson, an associate professor of political science at Southern Connecticut State University, believes Mrs. Rell is well poised for another run, no matter what happens to the economy or the November elections. 
 ''I think she's in good shape even with a declining economy,'' he said, adding that the governor is ''just the sort of moderate Republican that has historically done well in Connecticut.''
 He also said that Mrs. Rell's chances in 2010 could actually improve if a Democrat were elected president this fall. ''Normally in a midterm election, you have some movement away from the incumbent president's party, which could help her,'' Mr. Paulson said. 
 But the Snow White name has been used derisively by her critics, who believe she is somewhat out of touch or trying to take a moralistic attitude toward opponents.
 Mr. Amann, who has often clashed with the governor, said part of his frustration with her is that she has not taken full advantage of her immense popularity. ''If she was more bold, there's nothing she couldn't do,'' he said.
 ''She's very motherly, and to a younger generation, very grandmotherly,'' he said. ''I like the governor; it's hard to dislike her.''
 In 2006, Mrs. Rell showed her political mettle by running for a full term in her own right, and defeating her Democratic challenger, John DeStefano Jr., New Haven's longtime mayor, by nearly 2 to 1.
 Governor Rell shakes her head and laughs when asked how she has managed to avoid personal controversies. ''I think it's power that went to their heads, the 'I'm invincible' kind of thing,'' she said.
 ''I lead a very boring life. I go home, watch TV with my husband, I call the grandson and try to talk to him on the phone,'' she said. ''I'm just a normal, everyday person.''
 As she weighs her decision, the governor said, her health is not a factor.
 In December 2004, just months after assuming the state's highest office, she underwent successful breast cancer surgery. In 2007, her husband, Lou, received a diagnosis of cancer of the esophagus and had successful surgery.
 Mrs. Rell said her most recent annual mammogram and M.R.I. showed no reason for concern. ''I'm fine,'' she said, adding that her husband ''is doing real well.''
 But she recalled a chilling moment last October while sitting in a cancer center waiting room, along with other women awaiting their mammogram results.
 ''I looked at the four women lined up in there and I'm thinking, 'Will one of us get bad news today?' And when it's not you, you say, 'Thank you, Lord, I appreciate that this gives me more time.'
 ''If it happens again, you deal with it,'' she said with a shrug. ''It's always in the back of your mind.''
 Would a recurrence of cancer affect her decision on whether to run in 2010?
 ''Would it stop me?'' she said. ''No.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RIVALS: House Speaker James A. Amann, who has his eye on the governorship, whispering to Mrs. Rell at the Capitol. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB CHILD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. CT6)
 ON THE FENCE: Gov. M. Jodi Rell says that if asked about running, ''I'm more likely to say yes than no, but I'm not going to commit.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. CT1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); APPROVALS (88%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX INCREASES (71%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); POLICE FORCES (68%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (67%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); EMISSIONS (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



123 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; RACE AND THE RACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: A Fault Line That Haunts The Democrats

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
AS this historic Democratic primary season enters its next grueling phase, the party has become embroiled in a conflict between antagonists who would seem better cast as allies. Senator Barack Obama is a black candidate who has built his career on de-emphasizing race, while Senator Hillary Clinton is a white liberal who has been sensitive to minorities, and the issues facing them, during her long years of political activism.
 And yet, in contest after contest, particularly in large states with diverse ethnic populations, support for the two candidates has reflected the sort of splits that normally divide Democrats from Republicans. And the pattern is likely to be repeated on Tuesday, when voters go to the polls in Indiana, a predominantly white state and North Carolina, which has a substantial black population.
 How did this happen in the party that identifies itself with racial reconciliation? 
 The answer may begin in the identities, and ambitions, of the two candidates, but it reaches back to the tangled roots of modern political history.
 As long ago as 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson foretold that the landmark civil rights legislation he engineered would be met with a powerful backlash from aggrieved Southern whites. He was right. Even though he won the election, defeating Barry M. Goldwater, who opposed the legislation, in a massive landslide, President Johnson lost five states in his native South -- states that had historically voted for Democrats.
 Initially, some thought, or hoped, that a Democratic majority in the Solid South could be reclaimed. ''It's so important to get Negroes registered to vote in large numbers in the South,'' the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. told Mr. Johnson two months after the election, predicting it would be ''this coalition of the Negro vote and the moderate white vote that will really make the new South.''
 But that coalition did not form easily. And, in the North, while the party's base of working-class whites remained loyal to the legacy of the New Deal and to Mr. Johnson's Great Society -- and programs like Social Security and Medicare -- a new generation of activists drove the party to the left. These tensions flared into open hostility at the 1968 Democratic National Convention, in Chicago, when the party's older ''establishment'' base, aligned with the Democratic vice president, Hubert Humphrey, defeated antiwar delegates who backed the insurgent candidacies of Eugene McCarthy and George McGovern.
 Following the 1968 convention, a party commission produced rules changes meant to give greater voice to its ascendant constituencies. Those changes abolished the use of ''winner take all'' delegate selection procedures, and required state party delegations to include women, young people and minorities ''in reasonable relationship'' to their presence in the population.
 Mr. McGovern became the Democratic standard-bearer in 1972. But the party's new approach to the nominating process helped label Democrats as catering to their component parts rather than the broad electorate. ''The idea of quotas, the concept itself which McGovern supported, was to be one of the major factors in the wrecking of his campaign,'' Theodore H. White wrote in his book ''The Making of the President 1972.'' Mr. White saw this change as a profound ideological reordering. ''The beautiful Liberal Idea of the previous half-century,'' he observed, ''had grown old and hardened into a Liberal Theology which terrified millions of its old clients.'' That theology was dominated, in part, by what would come to be known as ''identity politics.''
 This transformation haunted the party for the next 20 years, as decisive proportions of swing voters abandoned Democrats as out of the political mainstream. That produced one lopsided loss after another, most dramatically in the landslide victories of Richard M. Nixon in 1972 and Ronald Reagan in 1984. Indeed, since 1964, Republicans have won 7 of 10 presidential contests. Pre-election polling, and television network exit polls in recent contests, have shown that no Democratic presidential candidate since Mr. Johnson has captured a majority of white support.
 In 1992, Bill Clinton succeeded in broadening the party's appeal to whites with his pledge to reduce middle-class taxes and ''end welfare as we know it.'' Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama both adopted similar mainstream strategies at the outset of their campaigns. ''These two candidates, in spite of being a black and a woman, have been treated as potential presidents from the beginning,'' notes Elaine Kamarck, a member of the Democratic National Committee who served in Mr. Clinton's White House. ''The content of the race hasn't been about identity politics. It hasn't been about representation.''
 Yet identity politics has asserted itself powerfully in the makeup of each rival's political coalition. As Mr. Obama struggles with the fallout over his remarks about small-town America and his relationship with the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., the racial divide has taken center stage in the campaign dialogue. Mrs. Clinton, for her part, has found herself rolling up robust majorities among whites. In an echo of the concerns that roiled Democrats in Mr. Johnson's era, one in five Democratic primary voters in Pennsylvania said race was an important factor in their choice. Among those voters, Mrs. Clinton drew 59 percent.
 None of this was apparent early in the campaign when Mr. Obama, the son of a white American mother and an African father, won the Iowa caucuses; entrance polls there showed that 9 in 10 participants were white. Later, Mr. Obama helped to build his persistent delegate lead in overwhelmingly white states like Idaho, Nebraska and Vermont.
 But Mr. Obama's dominance among black voters, once believed loyal to the Clintons, heightened the focus on race. Mr. Clinton, whose own campaigns were marked by racial bridge-building, helped that process along by likening Mr. Obama's victory in South Carolina, where African-Americans made up 55 percent of the vote, to Jesse Jackson's past success there.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Obama's difficulties connecting with working-class whites have become more consequential as the race moved to key electoral battlegrounds in populous states with mixed populations. While he edged Mrs. Clinton in the popular vote in the 22 states that voted on Feb. 5, exit polls showed he lost among white voters by 52 percent to 43 percent; that margin widened a month later in Ohio.
 ''Racism is deep in the culture of this country,'' said Roger Wilkins, an author who was an assistant attorney general in the Johnson White House and whose daughter has worked in the Obama campaign. ''I'm surprised that it took the Wright business to put it out on the table.'' 
 Yet others suggest the split within the party is less a matter of race than of economics. Support for Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton has been divided by income as well as race; Mr. Obama has attracted the same sort of affluent voters who backed Gary Hart in 1984, while she has dominated the blue-collar whites who, along with blacks in that campaign, delivered that year's nomination to Walter Mondale. This has made Mr. Obama vulnerable to charges of elitism, as did his comments about ''bitter'' small-town voters. ''He's been pulled into a demographic corner, not a racial corner,'' said Tad Devine, a top strategist for Al Gore in 2000 and John Kerry in 2004.
 In any case, the racial divide that has opened up within the Democratic Party is almost certainly less problematic than the hurdles Mr. Obama could face attracting support outside the party in November should he win the nomination. It is, after all, the Republican Party that captured the allegiance of the whites most uneasy about the civil rights movement and its legacy.
 ''It will be a challenge to win a general election with an African-American candidate,'' said Larry Bartels, a professor of politics at Princeton. ''The challenge has less to with internal tensions within the Democratic Party than with the resentments and racial misgivings of the general electorate.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); MEDICARE (60%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



124 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad Must Pay Its Way

BYLINE: L. PAUL BREMER III

 BODY:
THE success of the coalition's counterinsurgency strategy has opened new, and under-reported, opportunities for Iraq's economy. Per capita income is more than four times 2003 levels. Inflation is coming down. Polls show that Iraqi businessmen are overwhelmingly optimistic about the country's future and new enterprises are being opened every day. With oil production running at prewar levels, it is time for America to insist that Iraq make fuller use of its oil revenues for equipping and training its security forces and for economic reconstruction. 
 Iraq's government revenues this year may exceed $60 billion (roughly three times the revenues in the year after liberation). Since the fall of Saddam Hussein, successive Iraqi governments have had a poor record of putting this growing income to good use. 
 Under the Baathists' centralized system, more than 90 percent of state revenues were dispensed directly by the president's office. So Iraqi ministries, especially the Ministry of Finance, developed little capacity to distribute state revenues. In 2006, the central government spent only 24 percent of funds budgeted for capital expenditures. This figure improved to 63 percent last year, but the central government nonetheless left unspent billions of dollars which should have gone for security and reconstruction. 
 Americans have given enormous amounts of blood and treasure helping get democratic Iraq on its feet. Now with major uncertainty in our economy, Americans can rightly ask if it isn't time for the Iraqis to cover much more of the costs for training their security forces and for reconstruction projects.
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's successful operations against Shiite militias in southern Iraq and Baghdad have encouraged the Kurds and Sunnis to agree on the elements of laws on oil industry development and revenue sharing. So the Maliki government should have the latitude and authority to quickly use Iraq's oil revenues for urgent projects all over the country, including training Iraq's own security forces. This would relieve the American taxpayer's economic burden and show Iraqis that a federal political structure can serve all the people. -- 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



125 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1689 words

HEADLINE: New Album, New Fears, Same Old Attitude

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

 BODY:
AHMIR Thompson was sitting in the back of a town car inching through Midtown when he received a vexing call from management, not entirely unlike the one that opens ''Rising Down'' (Def Jam), the new album by the Roots. One month before its release there were problems with a hidden track, and Mr. Thompson, better known as ?uestlove, the Roots' drummer and bandleader, made no attempt to hide his frustration, raising his voice in protest.
 As a tenaciously independent-minded hip-hop group, the Roots are accustomed to tension in the face of major-label pressure. But as ?uestlove observed moments after the call, the climate has felt especially urgent lately. ''I'm not ashamed to say that this is probably the first we've ever been afraid: afraid of not being relevant, or afraid of not actually having a record deal after this album, or afraid of failure.'' Long pause. ''But I think that's a good thing.'' 
 Conflict and counterintuition have been motivating factors for the Roots ever since Mr. Thompson and Tariq Trotter, a k a the rapper Black Thought, joined forces to form the Square Roots in Philadelphia in the late 1980s, when they were in high school. They went against the grain from the start, using live instruments at a time when sampling was king. These days, in the era of the ring-tone hook, their ranks include a sousaphone player and a psychedelic rock guitarist.
 So it's easy to understand why the group might be afraid. Jay-Z, who helped bring the band to Def Jam, stepped down as the label's president late last year, and the industry climate is grim. Given that hip-hop sales were down about 30 percent last year, it can't be comforting to be a boutique band on a label that traffics in platinum stars like Kanye West, Rihanna and Young Jeezy. Def Jam did not return calls for comment; Billboard on Monday ran an article with the headline ''Cult hip-hop band the Roots struggle at new label.''
 The Roots see themselves as keepers of the flame, upholding the defiant but earnest spirit of hip-hop as it existed roughly 20 years ago. (In the words of Black Thought, on the new album: ''I'll show you where my rare essence is at/The adolescence of rap/The real muscle in the message of that.'') And while they identify with the hip-hop underground, they're hardly strangers to the mainstream, having backed the likes of Jay-Z and Nas. When ?uestlove received that intrusive phone call, he was en route to the airport; he had a gig in Las Vegas, spinning records at a joint birthday party for Quentin Tarantino and Fergie of the Black Eyed Peas. 
 ''We've been on a major label for 15 years,'' said Richard Nichols, the executive producer of the new album and the Roots' manager since 1991. ''There's a science to being a left-of-center group and maintaining the calculus between your critical appeal and your actual sales base.'' 
 The Roots have cultivated a loyal following over the years, partly thanks to the collegiate jam-band circuit. Commercially the group has rarely had a smash: the closest thing was ''Things Fall Apart'' (MCA) in 1999, which peaked at No. 4 and sold more than 500,000 copies within its first few months, playing a substantial role in the millennial neo-soul boom. That album's biggest single, ''You Got Me,'' earned a Grammy Award for the Roots and for Erykah Badu, who sang the chorus. (They are touring together this month and next.) The Roots' last album, ''Game Theory'' (2006), was their Def Jam debut after a string of releases on Geffen and MCA. According to Nielsen SoundScan, ''Game Theory'' has sold slightly more than 200,000 copies since its release two years ago.
 As a group that thrives on touring, the Roots might seem somewhat insulated from sales concerns. But that's not entirely the case. ''There's a winner-take-all kind of thing that kicks in with black culture, and definitely with hip-hop,'' Mr. Nichols said. ''If you're doing contemporary white music, you can be a Deerhoof or Panda Bear or Grizzly Bear'' -- critically favored but noncommercial indie-rock acts -- ''and you're not really judged on your sales impact.''
 However it is to be judged, ''Rising Down'' earns ?uestlove's depiction as a ''meat-and-potatoes hip-hop record.'' Spiked with dire intensity and stocked with head-spinning rhymes by Black Thought and nearly a dozen guest rappers, including Common and Talib Kweli, it's the most potent Roots release since the one-two punch of ''Things Fall Apart'' and its predecessor, ''Illadelph Halflife'' (Geffen). And despite its punishing starkness, the album still reflects the crisp musicianship for which the Roots, and ?uestlove in particular, have long been admired.
 Characteristically for the Roots, ''Rising Down'' grapples with tough issues: its title is an allusion to ''Rising Up and Rising Down,'' William T. Vollmann's seven-volume treatise on the nature of violence. ''I think this Roots album has a very mirror-reflective image of what the state of America is right now,'' said Dice Raw, a Philadelphia rapper who has been loosely affiliated with the group for 15 years. ''The war is an issue, but it's also the environment, it's also unemployment rates in the black community; it's a lot of things we're going through right now.'' 
 One track, ''Singing Man,'' adopts the chilling first-person voice of a figure like the shooter in the Virginia Tech massacre. (The Roots had been booked to play on that campus the week of the shooting.) Elsewhere there are sharp indictments of drug laws and government surveillance. On ''Lost Desire'' Black Thought tackles Philadelphia's murder rate, among the nation's highest, with harrowing poetry:
 We in the city where they definitely lost it
 You open your eyelids and get capped in the ribs
 Your funeral, they have your 12th-grade portrait
 Pretty corpse and casket, pale shade orchids
 Other rappers on ''Rising Down'' make strong impressions; an up-and-comer named Porn delivers one wickedly clever verse in the voice of a cough-syrup addict, and there are equally gripping turns by Mos Def and Saigon. Dice Raw, who wrote most of the album's choruses, also contributes some of its pithiest lines (e.g., ''I'm kind of like W .E. B. Du Bois/Meets Heavy D & the Boyz''). 
 But there's no mistaking the album's intention as a showcase for Black Thought, still an underdog after all these years. ''For me it's important that we establish and contextualize Tariq's position in the hip-hop infrastructure,'' ?uestlove said. Despite all the guest rappers, or because of them, Black Thought comes across as nimble, resourceful and intensely lucid. 
 He has two big virtuoso turns: ''@15,'' an improvised freestyle taped when he was 15, and ''75 Bars (Black's Reconstruction),'' featuring an intricately structured tirade that spills across (you guessed it) 75 bars without a moment's pause. The imperiled hidden track, which ended up getting dropped, was one more exhibit for the jury: a lengthy freestyle by Black Thought and Malik B., a former member of the Roots, from a 1994 radio appearance.
 Black Thought often raps with the hard articulation and thrust of a battle rapper, but in conversation he can be soft-spoken, his cadence reflective rather than aggressive. ''We're very much amoebic,'' he said thoughtfully, leaning forward in an ergonomic chair, ''in that we absorb what's going on in the outside world.''
 He was in the engineer's booth of a recording studio near Times Square. The rest of the group was visible through the glass, warming up without him. They were rehearsing for their six-week tour with Ms. Badu while in the presence of multiple film crews and photographers. Flashbulbs strobed the room as ?uestlove led his band mates -- on guitar, keyboards, bass and, yes, sousaphone -- through a slinky yet ominous groove.
 Black Thought watched quietly from the booth for a while before sauntering out to deliver the day's first rousing chorus: ''It's for all of my peoples who understand and truly recognize/Some won't get it, and for that, I won't apologize.''
 That couplet might seem to summarize the position of the Roots with regard to the public. But the defiant stance doesn't mean the group is ignoring the commercial realities. ''Maybe that was just a better way of saying that we're proud of who we are,'' ?uestlove said. And he voiced a common opinion among the members of the group: that the Roots somehow need the platform of a major label.
 Black Thought echoed that. ''Without that foot in the door, without that major-label certification, you're on a different list,'' he said, ''and it's harder to get things done, accomplish your agenda.'' But, he hastened to add, the challenge was also a creative spur.
 As it turned out, the hidden track wasn't the only thing that didn't make the cut on ''Rising Down.'' Another was ''Birthday Girl,'' a four-minute pop song featuring Patrick Stump of Fall Out Boy. Trotted out this spring as a first single, it provoked much puzzlement and derision. So after first tacking it to the tail end of the album, the Roots cut it loose. (It's available on iTunes and at myspace.com/theroots.)
 Mr. Nichols confirmed what many observers have surmised about ''Birthday Girl'': that Jay-Z heard ''Rising Down'' and requested a stronger single. ''It was something we could use to shut the record company up,'' Mr. Nichols said of the song, ''and it was so clearly outside the rest of the album that people would know we were going for a single.'' Without it, the album's best shot at a hit is ''Rising Up,'' a neo-soul exhortation with the rapper Wale and a hook sung by the Def Jam artist Chrisette Michele. They played it Monday on ''Late Show With David Letterman.''
 The conversation that opens ''Rising Down'' also closes it, bracketing the album in argument. ''There are some abrasive times,'' Black Thought acknowledged, ''where you reach a certain point and there might be a screaming match.'' 
 Did it all feel a bit Darwinian? ''Yeah,'' he said. But he added: ''I don't regret that things are the way they are. I'm appreciative of it because I think it shows in the final product. That's what sets it apart.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, members of the Roots, including ?uestlove on drums and Black Thought at the microphone
above, Black Thought, left, and ?uestlove in the studio
below, Erykah Badu with ?uestlove
bottom, Jay-Z, at the microphone, performing with the Roots for MTV. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARNOLD TURNER/WIREIMAGE
HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SCOTT GRIES/IMAGEDIRECT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RECORD RELEASES (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); RAP MUSIC (89%); POP & ROCK (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (70%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (65%); SALES FIGURES (62%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (77%); KANYE WEST (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



126 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Entitled to What?

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN. 
Roger Lowenstein, a contributing writer, is the author of ''While America Aged,'' published this week.

 BODY:
Virtually unnoticed during the primary season, the baby boom generation turned 62 this year and began to draw Social Security benefits. This heralded a milestone in America's aging, and depending on which of the candidates you ask, it spells a budgetary straitjacket or possibly a looming social crisis. Over the next generation, the population of seniors will practically double, to 72 million. With more people retiring and a smaller share of people working, the strains on Social Security and especially Medicare will become evident. Over the very long term, the two programs combined are projected to consume virtually the entire federal budget. A portion of Medicare (the part that pays hospital bills) faces insolvency much sooner than that -- in 2019. ''The entitlement problem is here and now,'' says Eugene Steuerle, a senior fellow of the Urban Institute. ''It is so big and overwhelming, none of the candidates feel they can tackle it.'' 
 The age of guaranteed benefits is hardly over, but anxiety over the fraying of the safety net -- private as well as public -- is palpable. It is true that not one of the three White House contenders has offered a comprehensive solution. And except for Barack Obama's proposal that the wealthy pay more in payroll taxes, none have been so bold as to suggest that the government meet its entitlement obligations by raising its take on them. But each has suggested some intriguing fixes that, while differing in the details, all seek to alleviate the entitlement problem by stimulating individual savings. At the very least, if campaign politics preclude speaking harsh truths, the age of tinkering with the framework -- a sort of policy wonk's Woodstock -- is under way.
 Not surprisingly, John McCain's platform is well to the right of the Democrats'. He favors bringing entitlement spending down rather than bringing revenues up. And he has made it clear that he is open to cutting Social Security benefits. His boldest stroke is on health care, where he would offer a universal tax credit but in return make employer plans taxable to the recipient. In other words, if your company has a health plan, you would have to pay taxes on the value it provides. This would pierce the illusion that health care is ''free'' and, it is said, discourage spending. This is Adam Smith 101: if health-care recipients pay more of the cost, they will order fewer M.R.I.'s and replace fewer knees. 
 McCain also argues that market reforms could slow the growth in the government's Medicare costs. Obama and Hillary Clinton support such steps (like more competitive bidding for drugs), but their emphasis has been on making the retirement and health-care system inclusive, as distinct from paring its cost. 
 Each has proposed a rather innovative savings plan. These are important on two levels. As an aging society, the U.S. should be saving more; instead, in recent years, we have had negative savings (people are spending more than they earn). Also, the network of private pensions that developed after World War II has been eroding as corporations terminate plans and as new companies decline to provide them. Even worse, the typical household's savings fall woefully short of what they will need for retirement. 
 Clinton has proposed a national 401(k) under which the government would match up to the first $500 to $1,000 that a worker sets aside. The intent is to kick-start poor and middle-class people, who do not have the income to take advantage of tax deductions and whose savings rate is especially low. ''The tax system is upside down when it comes to savings,'' says Gene Sperling, Clinton's economic adviser. ''We give the most incentive to those who need it least.'' (Only 5 to 7 percent of savings deductions go to people on the bottom half of the income ladder, Sperling says.) 
 The Clinton proposal mixes egalitarian values with free-market orthodoxy. It assumes that if you give people an incentive to save, they will. Indeed, economic theory holds that most folks will do the math, figure out how much they need to save for the future and act on it now. But experience has shown otherwise. Actual people (as distinct from the textbook variety) are not necessarily so responsible. Many Americans do not take advantage of 401(k)s. They also do lots of other silly things with their finances, like taking mortgages they can't afford.
 Obama's remedy for human irrationality is to use the government to force a choice on people -- but a choice in which inertia would tilt the outcome toward greater savings. Obama wants to require employers to automatically enroll workers in 401(k) plans at a savings rate of 3 percent. Employees would be free to opt out (or to choose a higher savings rate). Obama would also provide a federal match, but a smaller one than Clinton. His central idea, backed by new research but strongly at odds with traditional mainstream economics, is that changing the default option will encourage as much saving as providing a financial incentive. In other words, if people have to opt out of plans rather than in, they will end up saving more. Obama is sympathetic because it jibes with his experience as a community organizer, when he found that people did not apply for grants or programs for which they were eligible. 
 Obama's proposal reflects an alternate view of human decision making, one that has been advanced by behavioral economists like Richard Thaler at the University of Chicago, the plan's father and an adviser to his campaign. It suggests a role for government beyond the contemporary shibboleth of promoting free-market incentives. The plan harks back to the paternalism of the New Deal economists who created entitlement programs to begin with, but with a libertarian (since people still have a choice) twist. This is the sort of philosophical fusion that the entitlement debate could use more of. Benefits are not going away, but they are not immutable either. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEONARD FREED)
CHART: ALL SET: Percentage of respondents who have a retirement plan besides Social Security. (Source: Pew Research Center, fall 2006
 CHART BY CHARLES M. BLOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); TAX LAW (70%); CORPORATE TAX (65%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); ADAM SMITH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



127 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: As Tuesday Votes Loom, Obama Seeks Lift and Clinton Pushes Gas-Tax Plan

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JODI KANTOR; Jeff Zeleny reported from Indianapolis, and Jodi Kantor from Cary, N.C.

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
After the most trying week of his presidential bid, Senator Barack Obama sought to reframe and reinvigorate his candidacy on Saturday by asking Democrats to disregard ''phony ideas, calculated to win elections instead of actually solving problems'' and to seize an opportunity to change Washington.
 In a speech here, on the final weekend of campaigning before the Indiana and North Carolina primaries on Tuesday, Mr. Obama urged voters to move beyond the political controversies that have dominated the Democratic nominating fight and stirred skepticism about his strength as a general election candidate. 
 ''That's the only way I can win this race,'' Mr. Obama said, ''if you decide that you've had enough of the way things are, if you decide that this election is bigger than flag pins or sniper fire or the comments of a former pastor -- bigger than the differences between what we look like or where we come from or what party we belong to.'' 
 As Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton appealed to voters in North Carolina, holding a breezy chat session with a few hundred mothers and later appearing before Nascar enthusiasts, she highlighted her support for suspending the federal gas tax this summer. Mr. Obama derided the idea as ''a Shell game -- literally,'' drawing distinctions with Mrs. Clinton and Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee. 
 Mr. Obama's speech here underscored his efforts to retool his campaign -- and fend off what his aides acknowledged was unexpected strength from Mrs. Clinton in Indiana and North Carolina -- by forcefully returning to themes that had served him well in Iowa and other states, presenting himself as an outsider and an agent of change. He did not, at least on this day, seem prepared to end the campaign with harsh attacks on Mrs. Clinton.
 In television commercials and in his public appearances, Mr. Obama confronted the issue Mrs. Clinton has put at the front of her campaign -- a three-month moratorium on gas taxes -- and tried to turn it against her, portraying her as being politically calculating and cynical. That left the two rivals pointedly arguing over one of the few major policy areas on which they disagree.
 ''Senator Clinton and Senator McCain have been using this issue to make the argument that I'm somehow out of touch,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Well let me tell you, only in Washington can you get away with calling someone out of touch when you're the only one who thinks that 30 cents a day is enough to help people who are struggling in this economy.''
 To applause, he added, ''I think the American people are smarter than Washington gives us credit for.''
 The gas-tax holiday has emerged as one of the most contentious issues of the race, with Mr. Obama calling the proposal a gimmick that would deplete a fund to build and repair bridges and roads and would cost thousands of jobs. Not so, Mrs. Clinton has said, suggesting to voters that Mr. Obama opposes extending them a break. Analysts estimate the plan would save drivers 30 cents a day.
 ''I want the oil companies to pay the federal gas tax this summer,'' Mrs. Clinton told voters on Saturday in Wake Forest, N.C.
 For the first time since the Iowa caucus campaign, Mr. Obama was joined here by his daughters, Malia and Sasha, and his wife, Michelle. The imagery of the young family was intended to amplify his speech and remind voters of his biography.
 The Obamas stopped at a park in Noblesville, dropped by the former home of a distant relative in Kempton and ended the evening at an ice cream social at a Lafayette roller rink. Each of the appearances, carefully choreographed, was intended to send a message of familiarity to voters.
 Until recently, Mr. Obama was considered the candidate with the greater personal appeal and the more consistent message. But on Saturday, Mrs. Clinton offered sympathetic words to several hundred mothers about the problems of child care and teenage dating, while continuing to focus on the economy.
 ''I've always thought that toddlers and teenagers need about the same amount of attention,'' Mrs. Clinton, of New York, said at a morning panel discussion on motherhood in Cary, N.C. The production notes on the day's schedule showed that the stage had been set up to look like the set of ''The View.'' 
 Later, at the North Carolina Auto Racing Hall of Fame, Mrs. Clinton stood amid life-size cutouts of Nascar stars and one real, live one: Junior Johnson, who introduced the senator. ''You know, our country is in trouble,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''Junior, it's in the ditch!''
 But none of Mrs. Clinton's comments won as loud a reaction as her indignant remark about the price of gas. ''People get sick to their stomach when they fill up the gas tank,'' she said to applause in Cary.
 Both candidates focused on the states in which they appeared to be running behind, with Mrs. Clinton striving to cut Mr. Obama's lead in North Carolina and Mr. Obama working to win over voters in Indiana, where Mrs. Clinton seems to have an edge. 
 But by evening, Mrs. Clinton was on her way back to Indiana for an appearance with the rocker John Mellencamp, a native of the state. And Mr. Obama, of Illinois, was planning a return appearance in North Carolina on Monday, a signal that the pair of primaries remained fluid and filled with uncertainty.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at a Saturday morning panel on motherhood in Cary, N.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FUEL TAX (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NASCAR RACING (69%); TAX RELIEF (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); SPORTS FANS (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



128 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE DEBATE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: For Democrats, Instincts Differ On Economics

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT; Patrick Healy and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As they traveled across Indiana and North Carolina over the last few days, trading charges and countercharges about the wisdom of suspending the federal gas tax for the summer, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama were really having a larger fight.
 They were arguing over who had better economic instincts.
 For all the similarities between the two Democrats, there is also a core thematic difference between them. Mrs. Clinton tends to favor narrowly focused programs, like the gas-tax holiday, that speak to specific voter concerns. By suspending the tax and replacing it with a new tax on oil companies, Mrs. Clinton told a rally in Hendersonville, N.C., on Friday, she was standing with ''hard-pressed Americans who are trying to pay their gas bills.''
 Mr. Obama, on the other hand, leans toward broader programs meant to help nearly all middle- and low-income families. At a steel factory in Northwest Indiana on Friday, Mr. Obama called the tax holiday a ''gimmick'' and said he instead favored a cut in the payroll tax, which finances Social Security, of up to $1,000 for middle-class households ''to offset the costs not only of gas, but also of food.'' 
 The dueling instincts do not explain all the differences between the two Democrats. They also disagree about a health-insurance mandate (Mrs. Clinton favors one) and the capital-gains tax (Mr. Obama has indicated he would raise it more than Mrs. Clinton would). Mr. Obama is open to increasing the amount of income subject to the Social Security payroll tax; Mrs. Clinton has been critical of that idea.
 But their contrasting approaches do extend to a range of issues, including the current economic slowdown, the mortgage crisis and retirement savings. The contrast has been present since before the primaries began -- when Mr. Obama announced his middle-class tax cut, for example, and when Mrs. Clinton took out a whimsical television advertisement in which she was labeling Christmas gifts as if each were a specific policy proposal.
 ''Where did I put universal pre-K,'' Mrs. Clinton asks herself, looking around. ''Ah, there it is!''
 The contrast between their approaches also highlights what many economists consider to be the biggest weakness of each candidate's plan.
 As the economy has slowed, Mrs. Clinton has released a series of proposals -- to stimulate growth, stem home foreclosures and, most recently, reduce energy costs -- that have helped burnish her image as the candidate most in touch with the specific concerns of working families. Yet policy experts say these proposals have generally made for better politics than economics.
 ''I was appalled by Hillary going with the gas tax,'' said Alice M. Rivlin, a budget director under former President Bill Clinton who supports Mrs. Clinton for the nomination. It ''looked like pandering,'' Mrs. Rivlin said. 
 An open letter signed recently by more than 100 economists said the proposed tax holiday would do little to reduce gas prices. In part, that is because a fall in prices would lead to more demand, which would cause prices to return to their earlier level. The result would be that overseas oil-producing governments would get money now flowing to the United States government in gas taxes.
 Along similar lines, Mrs. Clinton's proposed stimulus plan was widely considered to be more complex and less effective than Mr. Obama's suggestion of quick tax cuts, which was the same approach Congress and the White House ultimately took.
 But Mr. Obama gets lower marks from budget experts for fiscal discipline. His package of tax cuts and new spending would cost roughly $300 billion a year, while Mrs. Clinton's would cost less than $250 billion. Economists said they were skeptical he could pay for his program without increasing the deficit.
 ''Obama has a shorter list of tax breaks,'' said Leonard E. Burman, director of the Tax Policy Center in Washington, ''but has some really big items on it.''
 Policy analysts specifically criticize Mr. Obama's proposal to eliminate income taxes for senior citizens with up to $50,000 in income. Thanks to Social Security and Medicare, the federal government already spends a large amount of resources on older citizens.
 ''The tax system already does a pretty good job of protecting poor and near-poor seniors,'' said Richard Kogan, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington.
 Both campaigns defend their proposals. Mr. Obama's advisers say he would pay for his plans by, among other things, raising the capital-gains tax more than Mrs. Clinton would and doing more to crack down on corporate-tax evasion. His broad cut in the payroll tax is an aggressive response to middle-class income stagnation, they say, and, because most senior citizens do not pay payroll taxes, they need additional help.
 ''I'm the only candidate who's proposed a genuine middle-class tax cut,'' Mr. Obama said Saturday in Indianapolis, ''that's paid for in part by closing corporate loopholes and shutting down tax havens.'' He also talked about his support for a tax credit to help homeowners who do not itemize their taxes and thus do not benefit from the mortgage deduction.
 Clinton advisers say that her remedies to the economic slowdown have been more focused than Mr. Obama's and that, early on, she correctly identified the housing market as needing specific help. Her economic plans would provide short-term relief to families in the months and years before her longer-term plans -- on energy conservation, for instance -- would have an effect, the aides say.
 Mrs. Clinton often talks about other countries, like Germany, that have created jobs and cut their reliance on imported oil by investing in alternative energy.
 ''We lost 20,000 jobs last month, and people are saying, 'Well, that's better than we thought,' '' she said at a John Deere sales center in North Carolina on Friday. ''I don't accept that at all.''
 The Clinton and Obama approaches still have many more similarities than differences. Whether through focused tax breaks or sweeping ones, both candidates would reduce taxes on middle-class households and raise taxes on those making more than $250,000 a year. 
 Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, by contrast, would make permanent nearly all of the Bush tax cuts, including those on high earners. McCain advisers say allowing taxes on high earners to return to their pre-Bush levels would damage the economy when it is already vulnerable.
 Both Democratic candidates have also promised to regulate corporate America more closely than President Bush has and to spend more than $100 billion a year on an overhaul of the health-care system. 
 The one major difference between their health plans has received more attention than it deserves, economists say. Although opinion is divided, they generally favor the Clinton policy, which would require all Americans to have insurance, potentially making the health-care system more efficient. But health analysts say the Clinton campaign has falsely suggested the Obama plan would exclude people who wanted to sign up for insurance.
 Despite the individual criticisms of the two agendas, policy experts praise both candidates for an unusually substantive primary campaign, each having come forward with detailed plans to address climate change, the middle-class squeeze and the decline of company-provided health insurance.
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have also been more forthcoming than Mr. McCain about how they would pay for their plans. Mr. McCain has proposed almost $300 billion a year in new tax cuts, on top of President Bush's cuts, but has offered little detail about how he would pay for them.
 Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the McCain campaign's top economic adviser, has said Mr. McCain would later offer more details and that the tax cuts would spur economic growth, reducing their cost.
 Perhaps the most important question, policy analysts say, is how Mrs. Clinton's and Mr. Obama's different approaches would affect their governing style. 
 On many budget matters, Mrs. Clinton's instincts seem similar to her husband's. Both favor carefully crafted tax credits that can help people who most need it, that come with relatively modest price tags and that seem likely to survive a divided Congress. 
 Mr. Obama sometimes talks of his vision of an ''iPod government,'' with simple programs that people can understand. He also talks of persuading voters and members of Congress, including Republicans, to support his plans.
 Either way, the debate may not last much longer. No matter which Democrat is nominated, the disagreements with Mr. McCain are likely to be far larger.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hillary Rodham Clinton
Barack Obama. (pg.34) CHART: Candidates On the Economy
Short-term relief
$120 billion total cost of proposal $75 billion for immediate use
Tax policy: Repeal the Bush tax cuts for households earning more than $250,000.
Repeal the Bush tax cuts for households earning more than $250,000.
Health care
Retirement
 Trade. (KITTY BENNETT AND FARHANA HOSSAIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Each blurb describes commenting material. (pg.34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); FAMILY (89%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CHRISTMAS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); FORECLOSURE (62%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (53%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



129 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: '88 Campaign Offers a Lesson In Using Symbols as Bludgeons

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Sometimes, as Senator Barack Obama seemed to argue earlier this year, a flag pin is just a flag pin.
 But it can never be that simple for anyone with direct experience of the 1988 presidential campaign. That year, the Republicans used the symbols of nationhood (notably, whether schoolchildren should be required to recite the Pledge of Allegiance) to bludgeon the Democrats, challenge their patriotism and utterly redefine their nominee, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts.
 The memory of that campaign -- reinforced, for many, by the attacks on Senator John Kerry's Vietnam war record in the 2004 election -- haunts Democrats of a certain generation.
 The 1988 campaign was, in many ways, the crucible that helped create Bill Clinton's centrist philosophy and his fierce commitment to attack and counterattack, which drove the politics of the 1990s. 
 Mr. Obama, of Illinois, has promised a different politics, one that rises above the fray and the distractions of wedge issues. As Glenn Greenwald, a columnist for Salon, recently put it, ''The entire Obama campaign is predicated on the belief that it is no longer 1988.'' 
 But is that true? 
 The assertion looks more debatable in recent weeks, after the furor over Mr. Obama's former pastor and his inflammatory views on America, the biggest of a series of ''distractions'' that have knocked the Obama campaign off stride. And if he wins the nomination, such issues will almost certainly rise again, given that he will run against a war hero, in Senator John McCain of Arizona, who is advised by several veterans of the campaign against Mr. Kerry.
 Mr. Obama himself seemed chastened by the re-emergence of the old politics last week. ''Let's be honest,'' he said in an interview on NBC. ''You know, here I am, an African-American named Barack Obama who's running for president. I mean, that's a leap for folks. And I think it's understandable that my political opponents would say, 'You know, he's different. He's odd. He's sort of unfamiliar. And what do we know about him?' ''
 There is a subtext for this history lesson: Mr. Obama's rival for the Democratic nomination, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, is running hard on the notion that she is the more electable candidate, that what she calls her ''baggage'' has been thoroughly vetted, and that she has survived 16 years of the harshest Republican attacks. 
 But David Axelrod, chief strategist to Mr. Obama, argues that any Democratic nominee will be subject to the same withering attacks on values and character. 
 ''The question,'' Mr. Axelrod said, ''is whether given the abysmal state of our economy, given the war, given all the challenges that people sense we face that have led George Bush to have the lowest rating ever, do you believe that voters are going to be distracted from the fundamental need for change? I think the answer to that is no.''
 In fact, as Mr. Axelrod suggests, these are very different times.
 Twenty years ago, the nation was in an era of comparative peace and prosperity; a sense of crisis did not hang over the election. Today, with the war in Iraq in its sixth year and the economy stumbling, more than 8 in 10 Americans say the country is on the wrong track. A new generation of voters have entered the electorate, who may not be as susceptible to values issues. 
 In such a climate, it would presumably be far more difficult than in 1988 to keep the campaign focused on symbolic, values-related issues, or matters of personality. 
 There are differences, as well, in the political skills of the candidates then and today: Mr. Obama rose to national prominence largely on the basis of his oratorical skills, and has never been accused of lacking vision; Mr. Dukakis based his campaign on a prosaic promise of managerial competence and ''good jobs at good wages.'' 
 And yet, some veterans of past Democratic campaigns say, there are similarities, as well. 
 Even with so many big issues at stake this time around, the race between Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton has often been focused on questions of values, background and character -- witness the recent fixation on Mr. Obama's ties to the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., or the continued unfounded rumors that Mr. Obama is a Muslim. 
 Like Mr. Dukakis in 1988, Mr. Obama is relatively new to the national scene, and thus vulnerable to being defined by Republican attacks. And like Mr. Dukakis, Mr. Obama lacks experience with the politics of wedge issues on a national stage.
 Attacks on a presidential candidate's patriotism are hard for many politicians to take seriously. ''Unless you're talking about the Manchurian candidate, the idea that someone who put their heart and soul into running for president didn't care deeply for their country is kind of ridiculous,'' said Drew Westen, a psychologist and political consultant.
 Still, one of the clearest strategic errors of 1988 was the Democrats' failure to realize that such attacks could stick and open the door to broader efforts to portray Mr. Dukakis as fundamentally out of sync with the nation's values. 
 ''The attacks against Dukakis, which were systematic and attacked his patriotism, did a lot of damage to him,'' said Tad Devine, a top advisor to the Dukakis campaign and the campaign of Mr. Kerry in 2004. ''They developed words and phrases that essentially said this guy is not part of the mainstream.'' 
 If Mr. Obama is the nominee, Mr. Devine said, ''I think it will happen again, and it will be aimed at both the candidate and his wife.''
 Michelle Obama has already drawn conservative fire for declaring that, because of her husband's success and the voters' hunger for change, ''For the first time in my adult lifetime, I'm really proud of my country.'' And Mr. Obama has been questioned about why he does not wear a flag pin every day. 
 In 1988, one of the central attacks revolved around the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Dukakis, as governor, had vetoed state legislation in 1977 that required teachers to lead their students in the pledge. He did so on the basis of an advisory opinion from the state court, which said the legislation was unconstitutional.
 Mr. Dukakis, a Harvard lawyer surrounded by other Harvard lawyers, believed himself on very firm ground. But by August 1988, his Republican opponent, Vice President George H.W. Bush, was rousing huge crowds with a contemptuous question: ''What is it about the Pledge of Allegiance that upsets him so much?''
 Mr. Dukakis, Mr. Bush said, was ''out in deep left field on these issues.'' He was also ''a card-carrying member of the A.C.L.U.,'' more concerned with giving furloughs to criminals -- like Willie Horton -- than upholding national values, the vice president asserted.
 ''I simply can't understand the kind of thinking that lets first-degree murderers out of jail on a furlough and won't deal with the Pledge of Allegiance,'' Mr. Bush said. 
 Mr. Dukakis defended his patriotism and scoffed at Mr. Bush for wrapping himself in the flag, but, in essence, lost control of the campaign and his own image. 
 After his loss, in 40 states, many Democratic leaders swore they would never be caught off guard that way again. 
 Mr. Obama faces different issues, beginning with Mr. Wright, who suggested last week that the United States was attacked by terrorists because it had itself engaged in terrorism; Mr. Obama has now denounced his former pastor. He has been challenged, as well, about his relationship with a former radical from the 1960s; Mr. Obama says he simply served on the board of a foundation with the man.
 The questions may be taking a toll: The New York Times/CBS News Poll last week found 29 percent found him ''very patriotic,'' compared with 40 percent who felt that way about Mrs. Clinton, and 70 percent who felt that way about Mr. McCain, a former prisoner of war.
 The lessons of history are fairly clear for Democrats, said Bruce Reed, president of the Democratic Leadership Council and a longtime Clinton ally. ''Republicans have been trying to put us in the same box for 40 years now,'' Mr. Reed said. ''We win elections when we don't let them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael S. Dukakis, right, and Lloyd Bentsen in 1988.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A1)
 Senator Barack Obama, campaigning last week in Charlotte, N.C., may find himself portrayed by Republicans as unpatriotic.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg.35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%); CHILDREN (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



130 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Indiana, a Cultural and Economic Stew, Poses a Puzzle in the Primary Race

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: SALEM, Ind. 

 BODY:
It is hard to run for office across this state, mostly because there is no single Indiana. 
 Politically, culturally, economically, linguistically, there are at least three Indianas, and maybe four or five or more. Even the state's veteran political minds do not always agree on where the many regions -- and demands -- begin and end. 
 In this far Southern Indiana town of 6,500, for instance, Steve Erwin, a barber, pointed to two Bibles stacked on the counter beside his barber chair and, even as he snipped away at the head of hair before him, slid open a drawer to reveal the gun he keeps within reach.
 ''And I'm not bitter, either,'' Mr. Erwin said, mocking comments Senator Barack Obama made about small towns and wondering aloud whether people here, in a nearly all-white county seat where the mayor and the county Democratic Party chairwoman have backed Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, could fathom an Obama presidency. 
 Four hours north in Gary, a predominantly black city of 100,000, a vastly different debate has been simmering in the days before the primary on Tuesday: a Clinton supporter has questioned the school system's decision to bus high school seniors to the county courthouse for early voting, field trips that some said looked like a way to try to produce higher numbers for Mr. Obama.
 There were no students in a downtown polling place for early voting on a recent morning, but there was a short line of people waiting, all of whom said they planned to cast ballots for Mr. Obama. ''I'm voting for him because he's black and qualified and because he speaks to what Gary needs,'' said Gwendolyn Redding, who like many others in the area around Gary once worked at a steel mill.
 People in the city said they had never heard of Salem. People in Salem had heard of Gary but urged a visitor to steer clear of it. 
 ''I don't know how any of these candidates can suit everyone in Indiana,'' said Connie Wright, a gift basket designer who has spent her 57 years in Salem. ''People here don't want to hear what they want to hear up there, and I don't know how you would appeal to all of us. Indiana is a killer that way.''
 Gary, in the northwest corner of the state, is part of ''the Region'' or ''the Calumet Region,'' Indiana's manufacturing communities near Lake Michigan that are rooted to Chicago, Mr. Obama's home. Salem is one of the agricultural towns stretching south of Bloomington, a traditional base for conservative and moderate Democrats (like the late Gov. Frank O'Bannon) where the accents and the music feel tied to Kentucky and where Mrs. Clinton is expected to do well.
 Indianapolis, the state's capital and its most populous city, exists as its own universe smack in the state's center. Democratic officials say Mr. Obama is likely to have a strong showing there.
 And there are other pockets and subpockets -- around Fort Wayne, Evansville, South Bend, Terre Haute -- each with its own complicated political tastes in a tangled mosaic that was created, mainly, by 19th-century immigration patterns. 
 There is added mystery this year. Recent history cannot be called upon to sort out the most likely patterns for a Democratic presidential primary; the last primary that mattered much here happened four decades ago. And all bets were off about which regions would matter the most, given the more than 200,000 new voters who have registered this year, the Republicans who say they plan to vote -- either out of inspiration or mischief -- in the Democratic primary, and the record 127,000 early voters who had cast ballots by Friday.
 In Salem, people told of struggles familiar in the Midwest's small towns. Many still farm, but more and more, people make long commutes to jobs in places like Louisville and grapple with rising gasoline prices. Without an interstate highway through town, Salem has struggled to lure industry. And Mayor David Bower, who grew up on a dairy farm, said he worried that too many young people were moving away.
 ''We really do represent Middle America here,'' Mr. Bower said. 
 Several weeks ago, Mr. Bower, who described himself as ''a very conservative Democrat -- fiscally and morally,'' intended to stay neutral in the presidential race, he said. But after Mrs. Clinton's daughter, Chelsea, came to Salem, listening to the middle school band and answering students' questions, he announced he was backing Mrs. Clinton. 
 ''I was really impressed with that young lady,'' Mr. Bower said. ''And politics really is all local, like they say. How could I not support someone who took so much interest in our town?''
 Many interviewed in the square here said they, too, planned to vote for Mrs. Clinton. She is more experienced, they said. Some pointed to better economic times during the presidency of her husband, Bill, and said they expected similar conditions with her.
 As for Mr. Obama, some said they had no problem voting for a black candidate but feared that other people here, older people especially, might. ''Even right here there are areas where people would not vote for him because of race,'' said George M. Green, a 62-year-old truck driver. 
 ''I think it's partly because he doesn't have a U.S. background,'' Mr. Green said, alluding the time Mr. Obama spent overseas. ''But whatever it is, they won't say it, but it's there.''
 Indiana has a complicated racial history. In the 1920s, it was seen as a Ku Klux Klan stronghold. Then, in the 1950s and 1960s, its laws regarding the treatment of blacks were slow to change, said James H. Madison, a professor of history at Indiana University in Bloomington and the author of ''A Lynching in the Heartland: Race and Memory in America,'' which recounted the 1930 lynching of two black men in Marion.
 ''Some of the cultural issues linger on,'' Mr. Madison said.
 The state's black residents, many of whom live in the Region and in Indianapolis, make up only about 9 percent of the state's 6.3 million people, but their numbers have grown in recent years at a faster rate than the state's overall growth. 
 In the shadows of the steel mills, Gary, which is 84 percent black, has seen better days. Since the late 1960s, the loss of tens of thousands of steel jobs and white flight have transformed a place that once called itself the City of the Century. Older residents point sadly down Broadway, reminiscing about the downtown street that once was a bustling promenade of shops, now far quieter with some stores shuttered.
 Rudy Clay, the mayor of Gary, has been urging everyone he knows to vote for Mr. Obama, mainly, he said, because of Mr. Obama's support for jobs programs, training centers and anti-poverty efforts. ''His programs fit Gary to a T,'' he said. ''Plus, he doesn't live but 20 minutes away.''
 When teachers in the Gary schools took students to vote, Mr. Clay and others drew criticism from a neighboring city, Hammond, which is 72 percent white. Mr. Clay said the teachers viewed the trips as an important civics lesson, not a chance to press for any candidate in particular. ''I thought it was a great idea,'' Mr. Clay said.
 Thomas M. McDermott Jr., the mayor of Hammond and a vocal supporter of Mrs. Clinton, said his concern about the trips was over the use of school money for buses and gas.
 Mr. McDermott said his office had received hundreds of calls since he voiced his concerns. Many callers accused him of being a racist, he said, adding that the episode had been painful. 
 ''Using taxpayer money to get the vote out, that's just not right,'' Mr. McDermott said. ''That's all Iwas trying to say.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Salem, a Southern Indiana town of 6,500, Steve Erwin worked at his barber shop and Connie Wright stopped for lunch. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID R. LUTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In Gary, a predominantly black city of 100,000 near Chicago, Gwendolyn Redding, left, and Grace Carter cast early ballots. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A33) CHART: TUESDAY'S BATTLEGROUNDS: Breakdowns of delegates up for grabs in Indiana and North Carolina based on demographics. (Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (62%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY, IN, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008



131 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: In Complicated Times, an Old Reliable Is Called to Serve

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: LOGAN, Ohio 

 BODY:
 Another special request came in the other day to the old brick factory on Gallagher Avenue, where pride -- if not much profit -- is taken in being the country's last maker of washboards. A worker, one of only four, all women, reached for an empty box and began to fill the order.
 One metal washtub
 One coil of clothesline 
 One pack of clothespins
 Two bars of soap
 Six tins of foot powder
 And one washboard: No. 2133-F, the new and very slight variation of old reliable, No. 2133, also known as the Dubl Handi.
 Although this Dubl Handi washboard would be shipped far away to ease the complications of these times, it was expressly designed for another time, a time when weary traveling salesmen would retire to some boardinghouse room with socks and underwear damp from the sweat of the hard sell. They'd reach for their Dubl Handi -- ''Just the Right Size to Fit a Bucket, Pail or Lavatory'' -- and begin scrubbing away.
 The washboard was dubly handi because one side featured corrugated spirals that could free the most stubborn stains, while the other side offered a wavy rumble to address the more, uh, sensitive fabrics. That's right, ladies: ''Ideal for Silks, Hosiery and Lingerie.''
 The Columbus Washboard Company, makers of the Dubl Handi and other models, must have employed salesmen offering captivating personal testimony, judging by its old, handwritten ledger, which indicates that nearly 1.3 million washboards were sold in 1941. That was a company best, recorded beside a small notation: ''Dec. 8, 1941 -- War declared.''
 After that, Columbus Washboard slipped slowly into the pail of quaintness, as postwar America chose sleek washing machines to soak, soap, rinse and spin. By 1999, the family that started the company a century before was poised to pull the plug, had there been one. But news of its imminent closing prompted someone to say they knew the perfect couple to keep the operation going, a contractor and seamstress named Bevan and Jacqui Barnett. This new business opportunity was breathlessly presented to them with one word: washboards.
 Who knows why, but that word lodged itself in the shared Barnett consciousness. With several other investors they bought the company and trucked the assets -- ancient machines, piles of wood, rolls of galvanized metal -- some 50 miles southeast to Logan, where they lived. They cleaned out the deserted shoe factory on Gallagher Avenue, learned to maintain and operate the machines, and began producing washboards.
 ''I just figured it out,'' recalls Mr. Barnett.
 He returned to contracting, while his wife assumed day-to-day oversight of the factory. She reacquainted old clients with this old reliable, began a Web site and established an annual musical washboard festival in Logan, a small city that needed the economic boost. Under the new management, the company's sales spiked to 70,000 washboards in 2000.
 Business slowed in 2001, then all but died after the attacks of Sept. 11; if irony was dead, as someone famously and wrongly said, then quaintness was positively buried. Ms. Barnett reduced the staff to four, including herself, and opened the factory's doors to any tourist interested in, say, the difference between the Maid-Rite model and the Sunnyland.
 The country was poised for another war; no notation was made in the ledger of the Columbus Washboard Company. But it did receive an e-mail message one day from an Army captain in Kuwait. Originally from Marysville, about 80 miles north of Logan, he was now leading a tank company of 75 soldiers -- and boy, could they use some washboards.
 At that point, Ms. Barnett and the other ''girls,'' as she calls them, created the No. 2133-F. Instead of the words Dubl Handi stamped on the washboard, there now appeared an American flag -- hence the F. They quickly shipped 70 of the 2133-Fs overseas.
 ''That's the perfect board,'' says Ms. Barnett, 62, who wears her four feet of long brown hair in a neat, braided bun.
 After receiving more interest from soldiers overseas, Ms. Barnett researched what troops away from a base might need and soon developed a kit that included her washboards, pails made in Mexico, lye soap made by a church group in Logan, and foot powder -- lots of foot powder. (The maker of the stuff had decided to go into a different business, and donated thousands and thousands of tins of something called Odor K'Zam.)
 A system was born. Tourists began contributing money to cover the $25 cost of assembly and shipping to theaters of war. As word spread, more donations arrived by mail: from a group of retired Grumman Corporation employees in upstate New York; from a veteran of two wars now living in Oklahoma; from the Worthy Matron of the Seven Hills Chapter #589 of the Order of the Eastern Star, in Milford, Ohio.
 Letters and e-mail floated back from grateful recipients, many of them saying the washboards served as a handy backup to the military's laundry service, and some of them expressing surprise at the usefulness of the contraption. ''They work pretty good, too,'' wrote an Army sergeant who closed with his signature and the words Operation Enduring Freedom.
 In this way, the very word was not relegated to adjectival duty in time of war: the ''washboard roads'' of Iraq; the ''washboard abs'' of a marine from Pennsauken, N.J., killed by sniper fire. A washboard was just a washboard.
 Since that Army captain from Marysville first inquired about washboards more than five years ago, more than 175 soldiers from Ohio have died in Afghanistan and Iraq: from Zanesville and McConnelsville, Pomeroy and Chagrin Falls. Meanwhile, the Columbus Washboard Company has sent a few thousand washboards overseas.
 Only one has come back. The women say they hope its return meant the intended recipient had simply moved on. They sent it back, addressed to Any Soldier.
 The orders, usually placed by relatives of soldiers, go up and down. Weeks go by without any, and then suddenly there are a dozen. Or just one -- like the request that came in the other day, from the aunt of a marine.
 Each of the four workers at the Columbus Washboard Company played a role, as country music played and Squeak, the fattest cat you ever saw, waddled around the old machinery and piles of wood.
 Lisa Jarrell, 44, stepped away from the nailing machine to lay the items in a box. Betty Ellinger, 58, the floor manager, swaddled them in bubble wrap and taped the cardboard box shut. Laura Lyon, 42, who works in the office, printed out the address label and affixed it to the top of the box.
 Then Ms. Barnett carried the box to her 1991 Plymouth Voyager van and drove a half-mile to the post office, around the corner from some boarded-up stores. She got in line and, on behalf of this country, she waited.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Monday with an article about the country's last maker of washboards misstated the company's name. As the article correctly reported, it is the Columbus Washboard Company, not Columbia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A SIMPLE SOAK, A HEARTY SCRUB: The Columbia Washboard Company of Logan, Ohio, the last maker of washboards in the country, has seen business increase since receiving orders from troops overseas. Betty Ellinger, 58, above, the floor manager, assembling a board.
 The company sends its packages overseas complete with instructions.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LINGERIE (74%); FOOTWEAR MFG (73%); FABRICS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (86%) OHIO, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



132 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: A Turkmen Dismantles Reminders Of Old Ruler

BYLINE: By DAVID L. STERN

DATELINE: ALMATY, Kazakhstan 

 BODY:
A 246-foot tall, rocket ship-like monument to the late ruler of Turkmenistan, topped with a golden statue of himself that rotates to always face the sun, will be removed from the center of the Turkmen capital, state news media there have reported. 
 A decision by President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov to move the monument was his latest step in dismantling the personality cult of Saparmurat Niyazov, whose often bizarre decrees turned the isolated, energy-rich country into the punch line of a bad international joke.
 The president had already reversed Mr. Niyazov's order renaming the days of the week and months of the year in honor of himself and his family. He had also ended the bans on opera, ballet and the circus, which Mr. Niyazov had decreed un-Turkmen, and lifted restrictions on the Internet.
 The monument, erected in 1998 and known as the Neutrality Arch, remains the most prominent icon to Mr. Niyazov, who ruled the desert nation of five million people from its independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 to his death in 2006. A giant white tripod with an Eiffel Tower-type observation deck, the monument is capped with a spinning 39-foot-tall effigy of Mr. Niyazov.
 President Berdymukhammedov ordered that the monument be moved to the southern edge of the capital, Ashgabat, the official Web site, turkmenistan.ru, reported late Saturday night.
 In its isolation and leader worship, Mr. Niyazov's Turkmenistan resembled a less severe but more eccentric version of Kim Jong-il's North Korea. Turkmen could travel abroad, but with difficulty, while foreign visits to the country were sharply restricted. Mr. Niyazov's image was plastered throughout the country -- on buildings, watches, and vodka and perfume bottles. 
 Although the country was widely considered a joke abroad, the reality was not humorous. Most of the population lived in abject poverty. The country's health and education systems were eviscerated.
 Mr. Berdymukhammedov has raised hopes that the country may be experiencing a political thaw.
 Chief among those hoping for political and economic reform are Western energy officials and the executives of multinational hydrocarbon companies, who hope to tap what are considered some of the world's largest natural gas reserves.
 American and European officials in particular hope to pipe Turkmen gas across the Caspian Sea into southern Europe in order to break the Russian gas behemoth Gazprom's growing hold over the continent's energy market.
 But analysts like Prof. Eric McGlinchey, a regional expert at George Mason University in Virginia, warn against reading too much into Mr. Berdymukhammedov's moves, which have included purging the former members of Mr. Niyazov's inner circle but also issuing coins bearing his own portrait.
 ''I would hesitate to uncork the Champagne just yet,'' Professor McGlinchey said by telephone. ''What he is doing is typical of any new leader trying to remove the legacy of a predecessor and consolidate his hold on power.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A statue of Saparmurat Niyazov, Turkmenistan's former president, is to be moved.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BURT HERMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (62%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (62%); GAZP (RTS) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (62%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (62%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (62%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (62%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (62%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CASPIAN SEA (79%) TURKMENISTAN (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



133 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1845 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Investigates Yonkers Development After Official's Surprising 'Yes' Vote

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN; Sarah N. Lynch contributed reporting.

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
For years, City Councilwoman Sandy Annabi of Yonkers was among the most vigorous critics of an enormous $600 million development proposal that called for 1,000 housing units, shops and a movie multiplex in the cliffs here over Sprain Lake.
 She complained in late 2005 that the developer, Forest City Ratner, was ''probably richer than God,'' did not need tax breaks and was ''robbing the city blind.'' And she was the lead plaintiff in a 2005 lawsuit against the city, objecting to its approval process.
 So the next summer, it stunned the Yonkers political and business establishment when Ms. Annabi provided the crucial fifth vote on the seven-member Council that the courts made clear Ratner needed to proceed.
 Now, as bulldozers zip around the 81-acre parcel known as Ridge Hill, intended as an upscale oasis within a city looking to shed its past as a faded factory town, federal prosecutors are investigating the development deal and leaning toward indicting Ms. Annabi, a 37-year-old Democrat, on corruption charges or other misconduct, according to a person involved in the investigation. 
 Subpoenas, which began as a trickle last year, are arriving more frequently, demanding city records including Ms. Annabi's e-mail messages dating back to 2004 and financial disclosure forms. Several people who have been interviewed by prosecutors say their questions have concerned not just Ridge Hill but also recent increases in water rates, building and inspection fees and other development deals.
 Ms. Annabi's lawyer said she had done nothing wrong, and the councilwoman has previously said that a change in the tax structure of the deal led to her change of heart. A spokesman for Forest City Ratner said the company -- which partnered with The New York Times to build its new headquarters -- was cooperating with the investigation. 
 To the political and legal cognoscenti in Yonkers, the length and breadth of the inquiry suggests that it must extend beyond Ms. Annabi's about-face, and perhaps far beyond Yonkers' 18 square miles to some of Westchester County's leading power brokers.
 Investigators have inquired about Zehy Jereis, the former chairman of the Republican Party here and a distant relative of Ms. Annabi's -- and subpoenaed his financial disclosure forms, though city officials said they had none to turn over. Prosecutors have asked about Albert J. Pirro Jr., a former lobbyist for Forest City Ratner and the estranged husband of Westchester's former district attorney, Jeanine F. Pirro.
 And they have also questioned whether former State Senator Nicholas A. Spano, whose ability to find money in Albany for Yonkers has long made him a Republican legend, or his brother Mike Spano, a Democratic assemblyman who worked as a lobbyist for Ratner between terms in Albany, exerted any undue influence. 
 ''Most of my conversations with my fellow council members revolve around the common themes that we'd like this investigation to be resolved, so that the cloud of suspicion is lifted and we can continue on with the business of governing,'' said Chuck Lesnick, the City Council president, one of at least half a dozen current or former council members who have been interviewed in the investigation.
 Mr. Pirro did not return calls left at his office, and his lawyer declined to comment. Mr. Jereis did not return calls. Both Spano brothers said they had had no contact with the authorities. Nicholas, who is weighing another run for his old Senate seat, said he was not troubled by the specter of a far-flung investigation; Mike said he had done nothing more than speak to some of the holdouts on the City Council about their qualms on Ridge Hill and relay them to the developers. 
 Yonkers, a gritty city of nearly 200,000 bordering the Bronx, is well versed in political scandals, having endured an embezzlement case more than a decade ago at its industrial development agency and the more recent conviction of a school superintendent who put his daughter's boyfriend on the payroll.
 Many prominent current and former politicians in New York State trace their roots to Yonkers, where party ties and personal loyalty often matter less than the ability to cut a deal. Mayor Philip A. Amicone, a Republican, had the backing of some leading Democrats for his re-election last fall, but not of the previous Republican mayor, whom he had served as deputy. 
 With more than a fifth of the population of Westchester County, Yonkers occupies a central place in the economic health of the region, and Ridge Hill, on the city's northern fringe, was viewed by some as a long-awaited answer to many prayers. Promoters say it will create 4,000 permanent jobs and generate some $20 million a year in property, sales and income tax revenues for Yonkers. But from the start, some questioned the way the project was fast-tracked.
 ''I was not surprised that the F.B.I. started to look into it, because not only this development project but many development projects in Yonkers have some questionable activities surrounding them,'' said Deirdre Hoare, a resident who lives within a mile of the bulldozers.
 Ms. Hoare said she was glad to learn that the investigation had widened to include another deal she opposed, in which the city agreed to trade two vacant schools for land owned by a local developer, Franco Milio, that it wanted in order to widen a road. Mr. Milio did not return a telephone call seeking comment.
 Ms. Annabi, a midlevel executive at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers who was first elected to the Council in 2001, was once among those critics. At one public meeting, residents recalled, she asked, incredulously, How could the city sell Mr. Milio two schools for less than the price of the soft drink in her hand?
 So when she cast the deciding vote to approve Ridge Hill, ''people were asking questions,'' said Ken Jenkins, chairman of the Yonkers Democratic Party: ''Wait a minute, you were so vocally against this group of individuals and now you changed your mind. Why?''
 Ms. Annabi declined to be interviewed for this article, but her lawyer, Murray Richman, said: ''My client is totally innocent of any wrongdoing. She's a young woman working very hard for her community. That's it.''
 In a news release at the time of her vote switch, Ms. Annabi cited 11th-hour negotiations with Ratner over property taxes, in which she said she was able to wring out millions of additional dollars. Later, it became clear that some of the promised riches had little chance of being paid because of fine print in contracts that Ms. Annabi said she never saw.
 Ms. Annabi, who is of Jordanian descent, has defied skeptics since she beat a Hispanic incumbent in a district divided roughly equally among whites, blacks and Hispanics a few weeks after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
 She had survived rivals' circulating fliers highlighting the fact that her father, Sami Annabi, was convicted of heroin trafficking when she was a child. (Her mother, Maysoun, also went to prison after federal wiretaps caught her using code words like ''cheese'' and ''olives'' to conduct international drug deals.)
 Today, her parents live in a tidy three-bedroom house on Bacon Street, on which Ms. Annabi took out mortgages totaling $522,000 several years ago and represented that it would be her primary residence. For a time, she had a mortgage of a similar size on another house she owned in Yonkers, and in 2005 she bought a co-op on Rumsey Road with the help of a loan.
 People involved in the inquiry said that the authorities had expressed curiosity about how she could afford multiple mortgages and drive a white Mercedes convertible on her hospital salary and the $41,000 she earns as a council member. One person interviewed, who insisted on anonymity to avoid angering prosecutors, said that the first question the assistant United States attorney, Perry Carbone, asked him last month was, ''Where does Sandy Annabi live?''
 The person said he told prosecutors that as far as he knew, she lived on Rumsey Road. He left thinking that the authorities might be trying to gain Ms. Annabi's cooperation in the wider investigation by threatening to prosecute her for misconduct related to the mortgages, a theory echoed by others involved in the investigation.
 People questioned by investigators said they were peppered with queries about Ms. Annabi's relationship with Mr. Jereis, the former Yonkers Republican chairman, who has landed a series of jobs working for powerful Republicans. Those include a position as a $69,000-a-year executive assistant to Nicholas Spano when he was state senator, and a $57,000-a-year job at the Westchester County Board of Elections, despite a previous misdemeanor for falsely witnessing nominating petitions in 1988. Mr. Jereis was a frequent donor to local political campaigns -- but not Ms. Annabi's 2005 re-election.
 City and party officials say Mr. Jereis, who owns a car wash in Brooklyn, often took credit for Ms. Annabi's votes, though often all he did was call her up, ask what she thought about some issue and then brag that he had steered the result. ''What Zehy would do is act like he could influence her and control Sandy, and Sandy was very independent,'' said Mr. Jenkins.
 In response to a subpoena last year, city officials told prosecutors that the Yonkers Board of Ethics did not have any financial disclosure documents on file from Mr. Jereis when he was head of the local Republican Party, from 2003 to 2007.
 Investigators have also taken a keen interest in Mr. Pirro's contacts with council members over Ridge Hill, according to people who have been interviewed by the authorities. 
 One meeting Mr. Pirro arranged at the Westchester Country Club included two representatives from Forest City and three of the Council's holdouts on Ridge Hill: Ms. Annabi and two Republicans, John Murtagh and Dee Barbato. Ms. Annabi has said that anyone who attended that meeting would know that she and Mr. Pirro are not chummy; she has said that he cursed her under his breath that day.
 Mr. Pirro gave Ms. Annabi's campaign $250 in early 2005, one of several similar contributions he or his firm made that year to Yonkers officials.
 A person involved in the investigation said that prosecutors had also questioned Dennis Robertson, a former Democratic mayoral candidate in Yonkers, about a February 2005 conversation in which Mr. Pirro expressed confidence that he could win Ms. Annabi's support as long as he made Mr. Jereis happy.
 Mr. Robertson, a longtime Ridge Hill supporter who was on the City Council from 2004 until January, said he told authorities he had never interceded on Mr. Pirro's behalf with Ms. Annabi.
 While officials sort through the various versions of events, and construction workers prepare for Ridge Hill's opening next year, the residents here can only wonder whether this latest effort to bolster the city's economy will proceed smoothly to completion.
 ''You can't make this stuff up,'' said Martin McGloin, a community activist. ''I could write this as a cheap Hollywood novel.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Councilwoman Sandy Annabi of Yonkers switched positions on a $600 million project.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LOBBYING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); INDICTMENTS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); CITIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LITIGATION (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); CORRUPTION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



134 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Publisher Tested the Waters Online, Then Dove In

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
It may be a niche publisher, but the International Data Group has been working out the answers to some big mainstream questions. The biggest one: Can print media survive the transition to the Internet?
 The question has taken on new urgency lately. A faltering economy is heightening the pressure on newspapers and magazines to find a sustaining future online, as the flight of readers and advertisers to the Web accelerates.
 Just last week, The Capital Times, a 90-year-old daily newspaper in Madison, Wis., ended its print version and began publishing only online. 
 The journey beyond print is uncertain and perilous, but the experience of I.D.G., the world's largest publisher of technology newspapers and magazines, suggests that it can be done. A privately held company, whose magazines include Computerworld, InfoWorld, PC World, Macworld and CIO, it appears to have made a profitable migration to the Internet, with revenue from online ads now surpassing print revenue. 
 Advertisers and readers of high-tech publications have moved online more swiftly than other audiences, so I.D.G. may offer a glimpse of the future of publishing. Yet the transition at I.D.G. came only after years of investment, upheaval and changes in its practice of journalism.
 ''The excellent thing, and good news, for publishers is that there is life after print -- in fact, a better life after print,'' said Patrick J. McGovern, the founder and chairman of I.D.G.
 The biggest single step in the company's online shift came on April 2, 2007, when the last print edition of InfoWorld appeared and it became a Web-only publication. InfoWorld, a weekly, started out as Intelligent Machines Journal in 1978; I.D.G. bought it a year later, and it has long been one of the company's flagship magazines. 
 There were nervous months after the switch as the company awaited the reaction from advertisers and readers, but before long InfoWorld's Web audience was growing and its business improved. Today, I.D.G. says, the InfoWorld Web site is generating ad revenue of $1.6 million a month with operating profit margins of 37 percent. A year earlier, when it had both print and online versions, InfoWorld had a slight operating loss on monthly revenue of $1.5 million.
 Across the company, the remaining print publications still typically play a vital role, but a lesser one -- physically smaller and financially diminished. In 2002, 86 percent of the revenue from I.D.G.'s publications came from print and 14 percent online. These days, 52 percent of the revenue is from online ads, while 48 percent is from the print side. 
 Last year, print and online publications accounted for 70 percent of I.D.G.'s $3 billion in revenue, with the rest coming from its conference business and its technology research firm, I.D.C. 
 The giant technology publisher has not just stabilized its business, Mr. McGovern said, but is also now growing at about 10 percent a year -- though a severe recession would surely dim its growth prospects this year. 
 Throughout its far-flung network of 300 print publications and 450 Web sites in 85 countries, I.D.G. has converted smaller magazines to online only, but InfoWorld was the big one. More will come, company executives say, as print magazines slip into the red and are left behind. But they emphasize that the print versions of some publications like CIO, a glossy twice-monthly magazine, are likely to be around for many years.
 CIO (for chief information officer) is distributed free to senior technology managers. It is solidly profitable and runs long articles that detail the use of technology in corporations and government institutions. A recent issue included a nine-page article on the effort to use computerized records to improve health care in California's prison system, under a court-ordered program. 
 Yet even CIO has adopted what its managers call an ''online first'' business model. Three years ago, the editorial staff was divided into three people who worked on the Web site only and the rest only on print. Today, there are no print and Web barriers. The total staff size, at 23, is one fewer than in 2005, but now most of them spend 80 percent of their time on the Web, while a handful of writers spend 80 percent of their time on the long centerpiece articles in the print magazine.
 But everyone writes for the Web these days. ''It's only fair to people for their career development,'' said Michael Friedenberg, the president of CIO. ''How can you say to anyone, in this environment, that they can only write in print and not online?'' 
 The most striking change, though, has occurred at more news-oriented publications like InfoWorld, the former weekly, given the Internet's ability to deliver news instantly to readers and deliver narrowly defined audiences to advertisers.
 When Robert Carrigan, the executive in charge of I.D.G. media properties, met with the senior business managers of InfoWorld in February last year, the only thing left to decide was the death date for the print edition. With a controlled circulation of 180,000 copies, the print edition was losing money, while investment and resources had shifted to the InfoWorld Web site. ''We were eager to evolve the business and prove what we felt deep down, that we could move beyond print,'' Mr. Carrigan said.
 There was little surprise in the editorial ranks either. By then, the editorial staff was down to its current level of 17 people, about half the number in 2002, and way below the peak of nearly 100 during the technology spending boom of the late 1990s. The separation of the print and online staffs had ended long before.
 Steve Fox, the editor in chief of InfoWorld at the time, said that the most fundamental difference between print and online was the ability to measure precisely how many readers view a particular article on the Web -- and how those results influence editorial decisions on what to write about.
 The link to the business is direct. When a person views a Web page, ads are automatically presented on the page and the publisher collects a payment. 
 ''It's wonderful to have the feedback that you get online, but you need enlightened ownership so that you are not a slave to page views,'' said Mr. Fox, who left amicably last October to join a social networking start-up. 
 At InfoWorld, page views are important, said Eric Knorr, the current editor in chief, but as a guide rather than a substitute for editorial judgment. Predictably, he added, certain topics that stir strong opinions among technology readers produce spikes in traffic. ''If we were chasing page views, all we'd ever write about is H1-B visas for tech workers, Macs and how bad Microsoft is,'' Mr. Knorr said.
 Yet as a Web-only publication, InfoWorld is very different from the bygone print edition. Gone, Mr. Knorr says, are the long pieces of more than 3,000 words, with anecdotes and narrative, examining how technology had transformed some company or industry. Instead, he said, the key online is packaging information into ''digestible chunks,'' typically of no more than a page of text or so, sometimes in lists of ''10 things to do'' to solve some technology problem in companies.
 The Web, Mr. Knorr said, also opens the door to offerings that are impossible in print. He pointed to short animations that explain complex technologies, and an online petition urging Microsoft to keep selling the aging Windows XP operating system beyond its June cutoff date, which has collected 160,000 names. 
 Without the physical limitations of print, Mr. Knorr said, it becomes easier to explore topics more deeply. InfoWorld presents a stable of bloggers, including 19 freelance writers, who are authorities in niches including data protection, green technology, open source software and cloud computing.
 The goal, with reporting and blogging, Mr. Knorr said, is to create ''thought leadership and depth'' in several subject areas online, and also set up InfoWorld conferences around those topics.
 The approach, it seems, resonates with the advertising industry. ''Print brands are going to continue to live, but the distribution channels are certainly changing and so is the content,'' said Latha Sundaram, a senior vice president at Starcom Worldwide, an advertising buyer. ''InfoWorld has focused on the depth of information in technology that is best presented in an online format.'' 
 Stewart Alsop, a journalist turned venture capitalist, was the editor in chief of InfoWorld in the 1990s, when it was thick with ads and its editorial staff was at its peak. ''Technology publishing just happens to be at the point of this whole transformation of media,'' Mr. Alsop said. ''What's happening at I.D.G. is a fairly accurate map for every other publishing organization. Get over it, it's going to happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Patrick J. McGovern, founder of the magazine publisher I.D.G., said ''there is life after print -- in fact, a better life after print.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT SPENCER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1)
 Most of the International Data Group magazines still have a print edition.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (77%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



135 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; METS 5, DIAMONDBACKS 2; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: In Matchup of Top Arms, Throw From Right Is Pivotal

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
It is impossible to know what would have happened had Ryan Church not thrown out an aggressive runner at third base Sunday. But it is quite possible to imagine, and all signs were pointing toward a swift resolution -- one favoring the Arizona Diamondbacks, not the Mets -- when in one motion Church picked up the ball and fired a perfect one-hopper to nail Chris Burke and preserve a tie score in the eighth inning.
 Just like that, the karma was reversed, and the Mets went on to score three runs in the ninth to defeat the Diamondbacks, 5-2, taking their second game in a three-game series against baseball's best team. A far less accurate throw -- an error by the first baseman Conor Jackson -- ignited the Mets' rally, but the late outburst lacked the drama of Church's defensive play. 
 On a larger scale, though, it was the sort of hustle that Billy Wagner, after an embarrassing blowout loss to Pittsburgh on Wednesday, had intimated was lacking. After Sunday's game, Wagner said he was impressed with the Mets' resilience heading into their three games against the surging Dodgers, who have won 9 of their last 11. The Mets fielded their opening day lineup five weeks late and will arrive in Los Angeles healthy, having regained Brian Schneider, who started Sunday after missing the last eight games with a staph infection in his left thumb.
 ''We played a really good ball team and had three games where we had to play hard,'' said Wagner, who earned his seventh save by setting down Arizona in order in the ninth. ''To come back and win two games against three top-notch pitchers -- you have to be really excited about that.''
 The Mets straddled the line between excitement and disappointment in the later innings Sunday, first when Joe Smith gave up a two-out run in the seventh that tied the score at 2-2, and then in the next inning, when Burke, leading off, laid down a bunt that pitcher Pedro Feliciano fielded cleanly before bouncing his throw up the first-base line and into foul territory. When Church saw the ball skip past Carlos Delgado, he sprinted over in pursuit. He said he had a feeling the speedy Burke would try for the extra base.
 ''I basically chucked it,'' said Church, who was a quarterback in high school and a pitcher at the University of Nevada. 
 The ball arrived a little ahead of Burke, and David Wright corralled it on the home plate side of the bag and slapped his glove on Burke's leg as he slid in. 
 ''Usually, outfielders have plenty of time to catch and throw,'' said Wright, who had homer. ''He got to it, took one step and fired a bullet.''
 It was Church's fourth outfield assist of the season, and his second of the series. His strength and accuracy from right field may be matched in the National League by only Atlanta's Jeff Francoeur. 
 More satisfying, to an extent, was that he was able to contribute with some special guests in attendance. His parents flew in from California, and his younger brother, Matthew, a soldier with the Army's Special Forces who will depart for his second tour in Iraq in a few weeks, dropped in from Colorado. After his home run Friday night, Church said he pointed to the stands at Matthew.
 ''Whatever I can do to help,'' Church said. 
 Held scoreless by Arizona's bullpen in the series, the Mets broke through in the ninth. Carlos Beltran and Moises Alou reached on singles. Delgado then grounded to Jackson, who, trying for a double play, threw over the head of shortstop Augie Ojeda and into left field, allowing Beltran to score the go-ahead run. Marlon Anderson, pinch-hitting, drove in a run with a single, and Jose Reyes added a sacrifice fly. 
 The late sloppiness overshadowed a pitching matchup more familiar to American League fans: Johan Santana versus Dan Haren. One way or another, the Mets had resolved over the off-season to acquire a front-line starter, and Haren was someone they considered before Oakland shipped him to Arizona in December for a rich package of prospects. The Mets waited six more weeks before acquiring Santana. Their head-to-head matchup Sunday proved that each team made a good decision. 
 Actually, Haren was sharper and more economical, sailing through the same number of innings as Santana (six) on 31 fewer pitches (85). He allowed two runs, but Santana allowed only one, despite a bevy of scoring chances by the Diamondbacks. They reached base in every inning against him -- and in every inning of the game but the ninth -- and cobbled together their best threat in the sixth. 
 After retiring the first two hitters, Santana gave up a double to Chris Snyder and then intentionally walked the No. 8 hitter, Burke, a move that led Arizona Manager Bob Melvin to replace Haren with a pinch-hitter, Orlando Hudson. Santana walked Hudson, loading the bases and pushing his pitch count to 113. It seemed that the next hitter, Chris Young, would be Santana's last. He threw two called strikes before Young poked a ball off the end of his bat that Church caught on the run in shallow right to end the inning. It was the first solid defensive play Church made, but not the last. 
 INSIDE PITCH
 Pedro Martinez (strained left hamstring) has begun throwing lightly off a mound in Florida, according to the assistant general manager John Ricco, but the Mets have not yet determined when he will take the next step of facing hitters in live batting practice or simulated games. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carlos Delgado scored in the ninth. He went 4 for 12 with four R.B.I in the series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (89%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%) ARIZONA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



136 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: The Skills to Survive Globalization

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 David Brooks (''The Cognitive Age,'' column, May 2) is right that it is really technological change that is driving the loss of middle-class jobs. 
 Education is a valuable tool for managing this problem. But it is important to recognize that technological change is continuing, and at some point during this century education will no longer be an adequate response. 
 We will have to face up to a fundamental change in the way we distribute the benefits of the increased productivity created by technology. 
 Bill Hibbard Stoughton, Wis., May 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks notes the obvious: ''Globalization is real and important.'' He points out that ''employers now require fewer but more highly skilled workers,'' but does not address the question, What happens to everyone else? 
 The great lie of pro-globalizationists is that losing semiskilled jobs frees Americans (and other educated people) to do more rewarding and higher-level occupations. But I have yet to encounter a pro-globalizationist who can state exactly what these jobs are. 
 We are not all going to be engineers, accountants or information systems specialists, and the great neglected duty that our evolving society has failed to address is that since we need fewer and more skilled workers, what happens to the average and mediocre? 
 The answer seems clear. The great American working-class success story was simply a pinpoint on the timeline of history. It's over.
 Steven Johnson Redondo Beach, Calif., May 2, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 David Brooks may be right about the ''skills revolution'' and how we are ''moving into a more demanding cognitive age.'' But what life will be left for Americans doing other kinds of work, work that does not disappear because of developments in information processing?
 Are we just to deny, without a fight, the ability to ''thrive'' to people doing farm labor, day care, transportation, construction, food service, machine repair, printing, manufacturing, craft work, garbage collection, fishing, ranching, horticulture and on and on?
 Jeff Zorn San Francisco, May 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 It is seldom that one reads a column that changes one's mind, but ''The Cognitive Age'' did that for me. 
 As one vocally opposed to globalization for 30 years, I have now come to believe that like it or not, it is here to stay, and we had better get used to it. 
 The candidates would be doing us all a favor if they would offer suggestions about how to maximize the economic benefit of globalization rather than dwelling on its perceived shortcomings. 
 Ned Welker Prescott, Ariz., May 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks doesn't mention the most important issue causing all the trouble as we move toward a global economy: a level playing field. 
 Intelligent Democrats aren't pumping up xenophobia, and they're not pandering to the electorate. They're just calling for fair play in the marketplace.
 The problems we face now could be mitigated if the Bush administration had the gumption to stand up to the governments that refuse to play on a level field. 
 China, for example, has never played fair with its trading partners. In my industry, the recording business, the Chinese have repeatedly denied the existence of pirate CD and DVD factories in their country, even in the face of evidence that American intellectual property is being stolen.
 John Boylan Los Angeles, May 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks is right: the global economy is driven by technological change. One should add that the third industrial revolution will start when we accept that technology can solve the energy crisis.
 Whichever nation decides to cover its roofs with solar shingles and use inexhaustible and free solar energy to convert sea water into hydrogen fuel for its cars will not only provide a permanent solution, but will also initiate the economic boom of the century.
 Political leaders should not use the gasoline cost for pandering or preparing for energy wars. No, our political leaders should return the United States to its natural role of leading the technological transformation of the planet. 
 Bela Liptak Stamford, Conn., May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); CHRONOLOGIES (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); HORTICULTURE (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); FARM LABOR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



137 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: 'Iron Man' Impressive In Opening Weekend

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
''Iron Man'' blasted into the box office stratosphere over the weekend, selling an estimated $100.8 million in tickets at North American theaters and almost certainly establishing a new movie franchise for Marvel Entertainment.
 ''The word of mouth through the weekend was tremendous,'' said David Maisel, chairman of Marvel Studios, the New York entertainment company's newly created film production unit. ''I can't think of a better start.''
 Including international sales ''Iron Man'' grossed an estimated $201 million, according to Paramount Pictures, which distributed the $135 million film. The totals were slightly short of first-weekend sales for ''Spider-Man,'' the 2002 blockbuster that holds the record for the top nonsequel superhero movie opening. 
 Hollywood urgently needed some good news. A winter box office malaise has stretched into spring, dragging ticket sales for the year down 3 percent through Sunday compared with the same period in 2007. The industry is also girding for a potential strike by the Screen Actors Guild, which is locked in plodding negotiations with studios over matters like payments for the distribution of movies on the World Wide Web.
 ''Iron Man,'' directed by Jon Favreau, shouldered the extra weight of kicking off Hollywood's crucial summer season. Stuffed with big-budget movies, the four-month period between the first weekend in May and Labor Day typically accounts for more than 40 percent of annual ticket sales, according to Media by Numbers, a box office tracking firm.
 Studios and theater owners were looking to ''Iron Man'' for clues about whether declining consumer confidence would keep moviegoers at home. Although movies are relatively inexpensive entertainment -- and have even benefited from economic slowdowns in the past -- prices for tickets and concessions have risen steadily over the years, prompting worries.
 ''What I think this says about the marketplace is that if we make really entertaining movies, people will show up for them,'' said Rob Moore, president for marketing at Paramount. Hed said ''Iron Man'' delivered the best opening weekend of any live-action film in Paramount's history.
 Still, establishing box office momentum could be difficult for the studios. Unlike last summer, when Hollywood offered up mostly sequels, this year the big bets are on originals. Total domestic ticket sales for the weekend stood at $165 million, a 13 percent decline from the same weekend last year, when ''Spider-Man 3'' opened.
 Next up is ''Speed Racer,'' a Warner Brothers movie based on the 1960s-era cartoon. The picture, which opens Friday, has posed substantial marketing challenges because of, among other things, its over-the-top visual style.
 There are other questions waiting to be answered as the studios roll out their summer slates. Can the up-and-coming star Shia LaBeouf turn out young women for the latest ''Indiana Jones'' installment? Does Angelina Jolie, starring in ''Wanted'' as an assassin, still have the drawing power to open a big movie? Is the Pixar brand powerful enough to sell ''Wall-E,'' a robot romance that has almost no dialogue?
 A variety of factors propelled ''Iron Man'' to strong results, box office analysts said. Among them: pent-up demand in the marketplace for an event movie and overwhelmingly positive reviews from film critics. A megawatt marketing campaign from Paramount helped create interest in a film about one of the comic book world's lesser-known characters. 
 Casting was also crucial. ''Iron Man'' is the story of Tony Stark, a beyond-brilliant engineer who builds a metal suit that allows him to fly and fight bad guys. Marvel's decision to cast the seasoned actor Robert Downey Jr. in the title role helped the movie woo adults who might skip a superhero movie, at least on a frenzied opening weekend.
 Marvel and Paramount are already discussing a sequel, although the upstart Marvel studio will have a much more expensive project on its hands should that come about. Mr. Favreau, for instance, has not yet signed on for a second installment.
 The weekend's only other movie of significance, Sony's ''Made of Honor,'' ran a distant No. 2 but was not trampled as many had predicted. That $40 million comedy, staring Patrick Dempsey as a guy in love with an engaged woman, sold an estimated $15.5 million in tickets at North American theaters.
 Two holdover comedies from Universal also performed remarkably well against the competition. ''Baby Mama,'' starring Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, earned $10.3 million (for a total of $33.2 million), while ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall,'' the latest from the producer Judd Apatow, earned $6.1 million ($44.8 million overall).
 Rounding out the weekend's Top 5 was ''Harold & Kumar Escape From Guantanamo Bay'' (Warner Brothers), with $6 million ($25.3 million overall).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (77%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERNET VIDEO (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



138 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITYWIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: The Lost Supermarket: A Breed in Need of Replenishment

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Even Kings and Queens are facing their own food crisis. 
 Kings and Queens Counties, that is.
 A continuing decline in the number of neighborhood supermarkets has made it harder for millions of New Yorkers to find fresh and affordable food within walking distance of their homes, according to a recent city study. The dearth of nearby supermarkets is most severe in minority and poor neighborhoods already beset by obesity, diabetes and heart disease.
 According to the food workers union, only 550 decently sized supermarkets -- each occupying at least 10,000 square feet -- remain in the city.
 In one corner of southeast Queens, four supermarkets have closed in the last two years. Over a similar period in East Harlem, six small supermarkets have closed, and two more are on the brink, local officials said. In some cases, the old storefronts have been converted to drug stores that stand to make money coming and going -- first selling processed foods and sodas, then selling medicines for illnesses that could have been prevented by a better diet. 
 The supermarket closings -- not confined to poor neighborhoods -- result from rising rents and slim profit margins, among other causes. They have forced residents to take buses or cabs to the closest supermarkets in some areas. Those with cars can drive, but the price of gasoline is making some think twice about that option. In many places, residents said the lack of competition has led to rising prices in the remaining stores.
 The residents of the Ingersoll Houses in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, have been without their local supermarket since last year, when it was razed along with a strip of stores and restaurants to make room for new housing and retail developments. What used to be a quick jaunt across the street for Della Dorsett is now a tricky trek, as she maneuvers her electric wheelchair several blocks uphill along Myrtle Avenue, returning home with plastic bags dangling from handles and nestled between her feet.
 ''I'm tired of going uphill,'' she said. ''But we have nothing around here now. From Myrtle to St. Edwards and down to Flatbush, not one store.''
 The lack of easily available fresh food has prompted city and state officials to convene several task forces to address the public health implications. 
 The recent study conducted by the Department of City Planning estimated that as many as three million New Yorkers live in what are considered high-need neighborhoods -- communities characterized by not enough supermarkets and too many health problems. Within those dense, urban areas, the study estimated that 750,000 people live more than five blocks from a grocery or supermarket.
 ''Many people in low-income neighborhoods are spending their food budget at discount stores or pharmacies where there is no fresh produce,'' said Amanda Burden, the city's planning director. ''In our study, a significant percentage of them reported that in the day before our survey, they had not eaten fresh fruit or vegetables. Not one. That really is a health crisis in the city.''
 The study, which was released last Friday, found that there is enough need in the city to support another 100 groceries or supermarkets. To spur supermarket growth, officials could consider using city-owned property or economic incentives, or relaxing requirements to make it easier to set up stores in areas zoned for manufacturing, Ms. Burden said.
 ''We have to determine why the stores are closing and what the barriers are,'' Ms. Burden said. ''Stimulating the investment of supermarket owners in these communities is essential to the future of the city.''
 Jimmy Proscia, the co-manager of a Key Food in Flushing, says the business has gotten a lot harder in the 33 years since he started. Competitors, he said, cut costs by hiring nonunion workers. Big-box stores buy in bulk and further eat into his sales. Some days it looks like everybody is in the food business.
 ''You got gas stations now selling milk for $2.99,'' he said. ''Go to the drug store and they're selling what we have. It's ridiculous.''
 In St. Albans, Queens, several empty supermarkets line the streets. Every day, Desiree Gaylord walks past a shuttered Associated store on Farmers Boulevard and on to her elderly mother's house.
 ''Before I go to work, I call to see what she needs,'' Ms. Gaylord said. ''I'll buy it somewhere else and bring it to her. I don't know why they closed that store. It was an asset, especially for the elderly. Now I see them on the bus with the shopping carts.''
 She walked down the street, past the corner house where Elizabeth Lopez moved in just last month. Ms. Lopez had been told there were plenty of places to shop in her new neighborhood. What she found were bodegas. By the time she gets home from her job driving a school bus, the closest supermarket is usually closed. So she drives to Brooklyn each week for her groceries.
 ''My husband hasn't even seen this house yet because he's been in Puerto Rico dealing with his relatives,'' she said. ''He is going to have a fit. He likes his stores close by.''
 The residents who live in the high-rises and private homes that ring Bruckner Plaza in the Bronx can relate to that. Their local supermarket, a Key Food on White Plains Road and the Bruckner Expressway, is the only one south of the expressway, tucked into a corner of the outdoor shopping center that also features a Kmart and assorted smaller stores.
 Executives at Pick Quick Foods, which owns the supermarket, say that Vornado Realty Trust, which bought the shopping plaza for $165 million last year, wants to double their rent to $50 a square foot. They fear the landlord wants to push them out.
 Pick Quick used to own 15 Key Food stores, which are part of a buying cooperative. Now they are down to six. The smaller stores -- those under 10,000 square feet -- could not make enough of a profit to stay open. Other stores were priced out of their spaces by rent increases. 
 At stake at the Bronx store are more than 100 jobs, many of them filled by local residents, including teenagers and single mothers. Some of the employees more or less grew up in the business, starting as teenagers with part-time, unionized jobs. The pay and benefits have helped them support their families, and even prosper.
 ''What does this job mean to me?'' said James Hutcherson, the store's frozen foods manager. ''I got a house and a daughter in college. That's what I got out of this place.''
 He is 46, and values his job so much that he takes three buses each day from his house in Queens. Both his father and his uncle worked for the company. 
 ''I'm used to the people around here,'' he said. ''I'm used to the whole neighborhood.''
 He excused himself to help a customer find several bags of ravioli that were on sale. Nearby, Efrain Rosa, 66, carefully read the list of ingredients on some Lean Cuisine meals. He is a diabetic, and he has to watch his diet. Like other older people in the neighborhood, he is worried that if Key Food closes, the shopping choices on his side of Bruckner Boulevard would be severely limited. Getting to the next closest supermarket -- a Pathmark on the north side of the boulevard -- would add more than a half-mile to the round-trip walk. Other options are not appealing.
 ''There is a grocery store across from me,'' he acknowledged. ''But they don't carry the kind of groceries we want. Of course, their prices are higher too.''
 Local 1500 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which represents the store's workers, have made this Key Food in the Bronx the poster child for a citywide campaign to preserve local supermarkets.
 ''We're at a point where landlords do not feel any concern that they are taking supermarkets out of communities,'' said Pat Purcell, the union's director of special projects. ''They just want to maximize their profit. I get that, up to a point. But food is different. It affects your health.''
 Wendi Kopsick, a spokeswoman for Vornado, said she would not comment on the record about the company's plans to renew Key Food's lease. But Vornado's Web site lists the Bronx parcel as available for ''proposed retail.''
 Whatever plans the company has for the site are bound to face opposition from the local community board, whose members expect to meet with Vornado executives this week. Enrique Vega, the chairman of Community Board 9 in the Bronx, said the board would not allow anything but a supermarket on the site.
 ''They are in deep trouble if they think they are going to put another type of store there,'' Mr. Vega said. ''They'll need a variance or an agreement with the community board, and they are not going to get it. We want a supermarket.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Associated store on Farmers Boulevard in St. Albans, Queens, is one of several supermarkets in the area that have closed in the last two years, leaving residents fewer options for fresh food.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
In Fort Greene, Brooklyn, Della Dorsett rides by a vacant lot where a grocery store once stood.
 James Hutcherson, 46, has spent two-thirds of his life working at a Key Food store in the Bronx.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) MAPS: Obesity and Fresh Food: The neighborhoods with high rates of obesity and diabetes are also those with concentrations of drug and convenience stores, and small numbers of fresh-food purveyors like supermarkets, fish markets and produce markets. Maps detail the following: Darkened areas show ZIP codes in which less than 25 percent of food retailers offer fresh food. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (96%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAILERS (88%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); OBESITY (73%); PHARMACIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); HEART DISEASE (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); DIABETES (71%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); LABOR UNIONS (56%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



139 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Tropical Cyclone Kills More Than 350 in Myanmar

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: YANGON, Myanmar 

 BODY:
A powerful tropical cyclone killed more than 350 people in Myanmar and destroyed thousands of homes, the state-run news media said Sunday. Some dissident groups worried that the military junta running the country would be reluctant to ask for international help.
 For the junta, the cyclone, called Nargis, hit at a delicate time: a week ahead of a referendum on a new constitution. 
 Should the military dictatorship be seen as failing disaster victims, voters, many of whom already say the government has ruined the economy and suppressed democracy, could be more inclined to oppose the constitution.
 Some in Yangon, formerly Rangoon, complained that the 400,000-member military was doing little to help victims after the storm, which hit Friday and Saturday. 
 ''Where are all those uniformed people who are always ready to beat civilians?'' asked a trishaw taxi driver, who said he did not want to be identified because he feared retribution. 
 ''They should come out in full force and help clean up the areas and restore electricity,'' he said. 
 Myanmar, a country of about 48 million people that was formerly called Burma, has been under military rule since 1962. Its government has been widely criticized for human rights abuses and for stifling of pro-democracy parties like the National League for Democracy. That group is led by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate, who has been under house arrest for most of the past 18 years.
 In September, at least 31 people were killed and thousands were detained when the military cracked down on peaceful protests led by Buddhist monks and democracy advocates.
 In response to the cyclone, the Forum for Democracy in Burma and other dissident groups outside Myanmar urged the military junta to allow aid groups to operate freely -- as it has historically been reluctant to do. 
 It would be difficult for other countries to help unless they received a request from the military rulers.
 ''International expertise in dealing with natural disasters is urgently required,'' said Naing Aung, secretary general of the forum, which is based in Thailand. ''The military regime is ill prepared to deal with the aftermath of the cyclone.'' 
 The storm's winds, which reached 120 miles per hour, blew the roofs off hospitals and cut electricity to Yangon, Myanmar's largest city.
 Shari Villarosa, the top American diplomat in Yangon, said the storm had caused ''major devastation throughout the city.''
 ''The Burmese are saying they have never seen anything like this -- ever,'' Ms. Villarosa said. ''Trees are down. Electricity lines are down. Our Burmese staff have lost their roofs.''
 At least 351 people were killed, including 162 who lived on Haing Gyi island, off the country's southwest coast, the military-run news media reported. Many of the others died in the low-lying Irrawaddy Delta.
 ''The Irrawaddy Delta was hit extremely hard, not only because of the wind and rain, but because of the storm surge,'' said Chris Kaye, the acting relief coordinator for the United Nations in Yangon. ''The villages there have reportedly been completely flattened.''
 State television reported that in the Labutta township in the delta, 75 percent of the buildings had collapsed.
 The United Nations planned to send teams on Monday to assess the damage, Mr. Kaye said. Such efforts have been hampered by roads clogged with debris and downed phone lines, he said. 
 ''At the moment, we have such poor opportunity for communications that I can't really tell you very much,'' Mr. Kaye said.
 Yangon residents said that the price of gasoline had jumped Sunday from $2.50 a gallon to $10 a gallon on the black market, and prices of everything from eggs to construction supplies had tripled.
 The state-owned newspaper New Light of Myanmar reported that the international airport in Yangon remained closed, though the state-run television said it could be opened by Monday. Domestic flights have been diverted to the airport in Mandalay.
 The referendum, on the military-supported draft constitution, is scheduled for Saturday. State media reported Monday that the government would press ahead with the vote despite the cyclone.
 A military-managed national convention was held intermittently for 14 years to lay down guidelines for a new constitution, which is to lead to a general election in 2010 under a ''road map to democracy'' drawn up by the junta. 
 Critics of the junta say the draft constitution is designed to cement military power, and have urged citizens to vote no.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fishing boats crushed by a tropical cyclone in the port of Yangon, Myanmar, on Sunday. Winds reached 120 miles per hour.
 A Yangon resident near a boat destroyed by the cyclone. Whether foreign disaster aid would be welcomed was unclear.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KHIN MAUNG WIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) MAP: More than 160 died on an island off Myanmar's coast. Map details area of Tropical Cyclone Nargis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYANMAR CYCLONE NARGIS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (51%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); HOUSE ARREST (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (99%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



140 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Success Breeds Failure

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Cross your fingers, knock on wood: it's possible, though by no means certain, that the worst of the financial crisis is over. That's the good news.
 The bad news is that as markets stabilize, chances for fundamental financial reform may be slipping away. As a result, the next crisis will probably be worse than this one.
 Let's look at the story so far. 
 After the financial crisis that ushered in the Great Depression, New Deal reformers regulated the banking system, with the goal of protecting the economy from future crises. The new system worked well for half a century.
 Eventually, however, Wall Street did an end run around regulation, using complex financial arrangements to put most of the business of banking outside the regulators' reach. Washington could have revised the rules to cover this new ''shadow banking system'' -- but that would have run counter to the market-worshiping ideology of the times.
 Instead, key officials, from Alan Greenspan on down, sang the praises of financial innovation and pooh-poohed warnings about the growing risks. 
 And then the crisis came. Last August, as investors began to realize the scope of the mortgage mess, confidence in the financial system collapsed.
 I believe we've been lucky to have Ben Bernanke as Federal Reserve chairman during these trying times. He may lack Mr. Greenspan's talent for impersonating the Wizard of Oz, but he's an economist who has thought long and hard about both the Great Depression and Japan's lost decade in the 1990s, and he understands what's at stake. 
 Mr. Bernanke recognized, more quickly than others might have, that we were in a situation bearing a family resemblance to the great banking crisis of 1930-31. His first priority, overriding every other concern, had to be preventing a cascade of financial failures that would cripple the economy.
 The Fed's efforts these past nine months remind me of the old TV series ''MacGyver,'' whose ingenious hero would always get out of difficult situations by assembling clever devices out of household objects and duct tape. 
 Because the institutions in trouble weren't called banks, the Fed's usual tools for dealing with financial trouble, designed for a system centered on traditional banks, were largely useless. So the Fed has cobbled together makeshift arrangements to save the day. There was the TAF and the TSLF (don't ask), there were credit lines to investment banks, and the whole thing culminated in March's unprecedented, barely legal Bear Stearns rescue -- a rescue not of Bear itself, but of its ''counterparties,'' those who were on the other side of its financial bets.
 It's still far from certain whether all this improvisation has resolved the crisis. But it was the right thing to do, and for the moment things seem to be calming down. 
 So two cheers for Mr. Bernanke. Unfortunately, his very success -- if he has succeeded -- poses another problem: it gives the financial industry a chance to block reform.
 We now know that things that aren't called banks can nonetheless generate banking crises, and that the Fed needs to carry out bank-type rescues on their behalf. It follows that hedge funds, special investment vehicles and so on need bank-type regulation. In particular, they need to be required to have adequate capital. 
 But while our out-of-control financial system has been bad for the country, it has been very good for wheeler-dealers, who collect huge fees when things seem to be going well, then get to walk away unscathed -- indeed, often with large severance packages -- when things go wrong. They don't want regulations that would stabilize the economy but cramp their style. 
 And now that the financial clouds have lifted a bit, the pushback against sensible regulation is in full swing. Even the Fed's very modest proposal to curb abusive mortgage lending with new standards is under fire, and there are worrying signs that the Fed may back down. 
 Maybe a Democratic sweep in November can revive the cause of financial reform, but right now it looks as if we'll soon return to business as usual.
 The parallel that worries me is what happened a decade ago, after the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management failed, temporarily causing the whole financial system to freeze up. 
 Through luck and skill, that crisis was contained -- but rather than serving as a warning, the episode nurtured the false belief that the Fed had all the tools it needed to deal with financial shocks. So nothing was done to remedy the vulnerabilities the L.T.C.M. crisis revealed -- the same vulnerabilities that are at the heart of today's much bigger crisis.
 And if we don't fix the system now, there's every reason to believe that the next crisis will be bigger still -- and that the Fed won't have enough duct tape to hold things together. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



141 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Begin Final Push Before Primaries

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and JEFF ZELENY; Jodi Kantor contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama began making their final appeals to voters on Sunday before the Indiana and North Carolina primaries, with Mrs. Clinton sounding like a full-throated populist in highlighting her stance on the gasoline tax and Mr. Obama seizing on the issue to cast his opponent as a political opportunist.
 The two Democratic presidential candidates used dueling appearances on Sunday morning talk shows, at campaign stops across Indiana, in conference calls with reporters and in an onslaught of television and radio advertisements to square off over the pocketbook concerns of voters, especially the high price of gasoline, which has become a defining issue heading into the primaries on Tuesday.
 While focusing mostly on Americans' frustration with gas prices, Mrs. Clinton also indirectly revived her charge -- made in the approach to the Pennsylvania primary -- that Mr. Obama was an elitist and unsympathetic to the economic worries of average voters. Appearing on the ABC program ''This Week,'' she cast opposition to her plan to suspend the federal gas tax this summer as an ''elite'' view; while she was referring explicitly to economists' criticism of the suspension, Clinton advisers said she was also seeking to include Mr. Obama in that group because of his opposition to her plan. 
 Asked to name an economist who agreed with her legislation, Mrs. Clinton said on ''This Week,'' ''I'm not going to put in my lot with economists.'' In spite of her professed love for empirical data, she added, ''Elite opinion is always on the side of doing things that really disadvantages the vast majority of Americans.''
 Mrs. Clinton's advisers said she was increasingly sounding populist notes to portray Mr. Obama as out of touch, as she sought to court working- and middle-class voters, two groups that helped her win the Pennsylvania and Ohio primaries. Mr. Obama continued to push back on Sunday, deriding Mrs. Clinton's gas tax proposal as a gimmick intended to help her catch up with his lead in the national popular vote and in the race to win delegates for the nomination.
 ''The Clinton Gas Plan isn't designed to get you through the summer, it's designed to get her through the election,'' read an Obama leaflet that volunteers handed out in Indiana. The message was amplified through a heavy television advertising campaign, which denounced the idea as ''a bogus tax cut.''
 Mr. Obama campaigned door to door and at a picnic in northern Indiana, one of the most competitive regions in the state, while also trying to end the furor over his delay of several weeks in breaking ties with the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. after his explosive comments about race and America came to light.
 Appearing on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, Mr. Obama said that while it was ''fair'' for voters to consider the matter, it had also ''distracted'' him and voters from the major issues in the campaign. He said he chose to finally denounce Mr. Wright last Tuesday after the pastor made more incendiary remarks.
 ''What really changed was a sense that he was going to double-down on the statements that he made before,'' Mr. Obama said. ''When you are in national politics, it is always good to pull the Band-Aid off quick. Life's messy sometimes -- all this stuff is happening under a spotlight, and you need to deal with it quickly.''
 The Indiana and North Carolina primaries have emerged as major tests of political strength for both candidates. Mr. Obama wants to show that the Wright matter has not chipped away at his popularity and hopes that victories will help consolidate the nomination for him. Mrs. Clinton is trying to demonstrate new viability and seize on what has been a rough patch for Mr. Obama since he lost in Pennsylvania two weeks ago.
 Clinton advisers have cast the Indiana primary in particular as a must-win for her; Mr. Obama, meanwhile, once suggested that it could be a ''tie-breaker'' in the Democratic nominating fight, though he backed away from that assertion on Sunday. ''We have more contests remaining,'' he said. ''I'm confident Senator Clinton is going to stay in until the very end.''
 In some ways the candidates were a study in contrasts on the campaign trail this weekend. Mrs. Clinton has seemed to be growing angrier by the day, as her political message has become a tale of working-class heroes who struggle against greedy, irresponsible villains: energy traders (who are manipulating the market in Enron-like fashion, she asserts), China (which is spying on America's businesses and poisoning its pets with tainted food), OPEC (which she will sue for antitrust violations), and even the federal government (which bailed out Bear Stearns but refuses to help ordinary Americans).
 ''I am tired of sitting here being a patsy, of sitting here, taking it!'' she cried Saturday in Gastonia, N.C., perched on the back of a vintage Chevrolet pickup truck.
 At his campaign stops, Mr. Obama seemed to be extending an olive branch to voters who might like Mrs. Clinton but were eager for the Democratic contest to end.
 ''For those of you who are worried about whether the Democrats are divided, you know you've got the Clinton folks and the Obama folks,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Let me tell you something: We will be united in November. We don't want another four years of George W. Bush, and that's what John McCain is offering.''
 A window into the magnitude of this challenge came Sunday evening at a Democratic dinner in Indianapolis. When Mrs. Clinton spoke -- ''I'm no shrinking violet,'' she declared -- much of the room was silent. When Mr. Obama made his remarks, saying, ''You've heard those promises before,'' many did not applaud.
 While Mr. Obama spent the first 18 minutes on ''Meet the Press'' answering questions about Mr. Wright, Mrs. Clinton said on ''This Week'' that the campaign should ''definitely move on'' from that controversy -- even though, her advisers say privately, they are still raising the subject with party leaders and officials as they argue that she is more electable than Mr. Obama.
 Mrs. Clinton faced scrutiny herself over her plan to suspend the gasoline tax. One audience member, Kara Glennon, an Obama supporter, said gas prices were ''not academic'' for her, given that she makes less than $25,000 a year. And then she accused Mrs. Clinton of pandering.
 ''Call me crazy,'' Ms. Glennon said, ''but I listen to economists because I think that they know what they studied.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton was also questioned about her comment last month that the United States would be able to ''obliterate'' Iran if it attacked Israel with nuclear weapons. While she backed off her use of the word ''obliterate'' shortly after making the comment, she said on ''This Week'' that she had no ''regrets'' about promising a devastating attack against Iran in such an instance.
 ''The very idea that they would translate into action some of the most outlandish comments that have been made by some of Iran's leaders and even contemplate wiping Israel off the face of the world means that we've got to make it clear to them that that would not go without massive retaliation,'' she said.
 On NBC, Mr. Obama criticized Mrs. Clinton for using a word like ''obliterate.''
 ''It's not the language we need right now, and I think it's language that's reflective of George Bush,'' he said. ''We have had a foreign policy of bluster and saber-rattling and tough talk, and in the meantime we make a series of strategic decisions that strengthen Iran.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Young supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton attended a campaign rally on Sunday at Indiana Tech in Fort Wayne.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GASOLINE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); TAX FRAUD (72%); RADIO ADVERTISING (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (73%) INDIANA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



142 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: How Much For Those Baby Photos?

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Not long ago, when a magazine paid a celebrity more than a person might earn in a lifetime in return for a set of pictures, media critics questioned the ethics of both the publication and the star.
 That is so passe. Writing an enormous check for a celebrity photo spread and interview has become pretty routine for People magazine and OK! weekly.
 So the better question now is, is it worth it? Can a few snapshots of a baby or a bride, accompanied by a fawning article, really be worth millions of dollars?
 On the whole it probably is, industry executives and consultants say, acknowledging that is a tough question to answer. 
 Million-dollar payouts were unheard of a few years ago, but that changed when the United States version of OK! was introduced. Now there is about one a month. In March, People set a record, paying what industry executives say was $5 million or more for the first public pictures of Jennifer Lopez, Marc Anthony and their newborn twins. 
 That kind of inflation makes it harder to argue that publishers get their money back in any direct way. In most cases, the magazine is paying only for the exclusive rights to use the pictures for a week or two. (Magazines usually buy the photos through an agency, partly to avoid the appearance of directly paying celebrities for access, though publishers and editors no longer bother with any pretense about where the money goes.)
 But executives at the magazines, while refusing to discuss specific photo fees, insist that the widely reported prices are wrong or misleading and that the true costs to their companies are much less. And they say that the most important factors are impossible to measure: the value of being known as the place to go for those pictures, and of keeping them out of a competitor's hands.
 ''The consumer's expectation is if the photos are going to be available, I'm going to see them in People,'' said Paul Caine, the publisher of People magazine, a Time Warner property. ''If we don't get them, we miss that brand promise, we lose the halo that goes with that.''
 Larry Hackett, People's editor, said, ''Last year, we lost a couple of weddings because OK! magazine was willing to spend more money than we thought made sense.'' If that sort of thing becomes common, he said, ''they're going to get traction, and I don't want any competitor to get traction where I can stop it.''
 OK! does not turn a profit, its publisher, Tom Morrissy, said, but it spends heavily for big exclusives to establish itself and gain a following. This may be working; The magazine, part of the British media conglomerate Northern and Shell, had a circulation of more than 900,000 in the second half of 2007, far behind People's 3.8 million, but growing fast.
 Magazine editors need an acute sense of how a celebrity cover will sell at a particular moment, and sometimes they get it wrong. Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have been money in the bank for years, but putting Christina Aguilera and her new baby on the cover in February did not do much for People's sales. Anna Nicole Smith and those around her attracted readers while she lived, but were a bigger attraction in the months after she died.
 ''It's always a bit of gamble,'' said Sarah Ivens, editor of the American version of OK! ''You have to trust your instincts.''
 An exclusive set of pictures, with one on the cover, can increase newsstand sales, but rarely by enough to sustain a payout of $1 million or more. Even at the full cover price, analysts say, each extra copy that a magazine sells above its norm generates less than $2 in income.
 The domestic record for a sales increase may belong to the issue of People in 2006 with the first published pictures of Ms. Jolie's and Mr. Pitt's baby, Shiloh, which sold 800,000 more copies than usual. (Published reports said the magazine paid $4.1 million for those photos -- a record at that time, which the parents gave to charity -- though People says that figure is wrong.)
 More commonly, an important exclusive sells an extra 300,000 to 500,000 copies -- providing less than $1 million in added earnings. But that is just the American part of the ledger. Exclusive pictures have a greater effect on Web traffic; People.com briefly doubled its usual number of online readers when it featured Ms. Lopez's twins, with about four million viewers in a single day. That kind of traffic can translate into more advertiser interest, but the magazine does not disclose such data.
 When a magazine pays a lot of money for pictures, it often uses the domestic rights and sells the international rights to someone else, so the net cost is much lower than the initial payout. That is what People did with the pictures of Ms. Lopez and family. 
 For OK!, a set of pictures can be used in magazines around the world. The American OK! is a spinoff of a celebrity weekly based in Britain that is sold in dozens of countries. Northern and Shell also licenses a dozen foreign-language versions.
 The company paid a reported $2 million last year for pictures of Eva Longoria and Tony Parker's wedding, with audiences in several countries in mind.
 '' 'Desperate Housewives' is a big hit in Europe,'' Mr. Morrissy said, ''Tony Parker is from France and Eva Longoria translates very well internationally.''
 British magazines and tabloids have a history of fierce competition and of paying for access. But at the start of the decade, no American publication was paying high prices for pictures because People had the field nearly to itself.
 That started to change when Wenner Media's Us magazine went from monthly to weekly in 2000 and began to compete more aggressively, starting a circulation climb to almost two million today from about 800,000. In the next few years, Bauer Publishing introduced In Touch and Life & Style. 
 Suddenly, there were bidding wars for pictures, most taken by freelancers. Magazines were paying tens of thousands of dollars for run-of-the-mill pictures of celebrities leaving restaurants -- pictures they did not consider good enough for their covers. That contributed to an explosion in the number of paparazzi chasing celebrities, which in turn led to more pictures, and prices leveled off.
 Then OK! arrived in August 2005, with Northern and Shell's resources behind it and a willingness to pay six and seven figures. People, widely acknowledged as the most profitable magazine in the country, followed suit; Us Weekly and Bauer have chosen not to compete at those prices.
 ''This is a long-term strategy for us,'' Mr. Hackett, the People editor, said. ''I don't enjoy paying these large amounts of money, but I do enjoy our readers having these pictures.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: People magazine covers in March with Nicole Richie, left, and Jennifer Lopez and twins. (pg. C1)
Angelina Jolie with daughter Zahara and Brad Pitt with son Maddox in Mumbai, India, in 2006.
 Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie with their newborn daughter, Shiloh. Christina Aguilera with son Max on a cover in February.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (77%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (68%); BRANDING (50%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (73%); ANGELINA JOLIE (72%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (66%); CHRISTINA AGUILERA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



143 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Short on Cash, State Hastens Plan For Casino in City

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
For New Yorkers, a casino will soon be a mere subway ride away.
 Or a racino, to use the gambling industry's term: a gambling emporium built into the Aqueduct thoroughbred track in Queens that will include 4,500 video slot machines, but no table games. 
 Desperate for revenue, the state has put plans to develop a racino at Aqueduct on the fast track. While the plan has been at various stages for years, state officials are aiming to choose among the three bidders vying to develop the racino in a matter of weeks, though final agreements among state leaders often prove elusive in Albany. 
 But given the weakening economy and widening budget deficits, the state is motivated to expedite the process, and a bidding group led by the developer Stephen L. Green and the operators of the Hard Rock Cafe chain is even promising to open a temporary racino by the end of this year. 
 At stake is the $10 billion to more than $20 billion in revenue that the state will reap over the life of what would be a 30-year lease, depending on which bidder is making the projections, as well as an upfront licensing fee. 
 ''We would hope that in roughly a year we'd have a facility open,'' said Paul Francis, director of operations for Gov. David A. Paterson. There are several racinos in the state, but none at the three state-owned thoroughbred tracks: Aqueduct, Belmont and Saratoga.
 Like many issues decided in the capital, the bids are secret -- beyond what details the bidders were willing to release -- and the winner will be chosen behind closed doors by the so-called three men in a room who run the state, Governor Paterson and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, both Democrats, and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, the state's top Republican. 
 Because the process is private, it will not be clear to what extent merit or political influence and campaign contributions affect the decision making. The secrecy, Mr. Francis said, ''will help the policymakers make a decision on the merits of the proposals rather than on a political campaign that seeks to promote the merits of one bid and the demerits of an alternative proposal.''
 The bids range in ambition. All of the bidders are proposing renovating the aging facilities with enough of a gloss to entice a flurry of traffic before considering a second phase of development. The state will raise $250 million through a bond offering for the construction project. 
 Connecticut's Mohegan tribe, which operates the giant Mohegan Sun resort and casino, is part of a bidding group called Capital Play, which has an ambitious plan to transform Aqueduct over the next several years into a Mohegan-style entertainment complex. The group even talks of extending the AirTrain from the nearby Kennedy International Airport to the Aqueduct site. Their bidding group includes Extell Development, a major Manhattan-based real estate developer, and Plainfield Asset Management, a large hedge fund. 
 But the group's upfront bid is on the low end, a $250 million investment that includes a $100 million licensing fee and $150 million to redevelop the site. The state is already counting on a $250 million licensing fee to balance the budget. 
 To sweeten the pot, the group is promising to spend an extra $25 million to $30 million a year on marketing above the state's requirements, which it believes will bring in substantially more revenue over time. The group also says it intends to spend an additional $700 million on a second phase of development within a couple of years, which would be used to add a hotel and mall.
 ''You have to build a hotel, and retail, so it becomes a Mohegan-style complex, so it's not focused on gaming as much as entertainment,'' said Karl O'Farrell, the president and chief executive of Capital Play. ''There will be good-quality restaurants, nightclubs.''
 ''We want it to be J.F.K.'s waiting room,'' he added. 
 Another bidder, Delaware North, has a more scaled-back but also more immediately lucrative proposal. The group, owned by the Jacobs family of Buffalo, would pay the state a $370 million licensing fee upfront, though it would not use more than the state is offering through its bond sale to develop the site. 
 The group envisions a racino similar to a popular one it operates in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., which is attached to a harness racing track, and would include a large parking deck. 
 ''It's going to have a lot of electricity, a lot of lights and a lot of entertainment,'' said William J. Bissett, president of the gambling and entertainment division of Delaware North. ''It's going to feel like a place you want to be.''
 The third bidding group includes Hard Rock International, which was acquired by the Seminole Tribe of Florida in 2006, along with the real estate firm SL Green. 
 The group is offering $250 million as a licensing fee and a $130 million investment in the construction project. In addition, it is proposing to spend $28.5 million to finance upstate horse farms and breeding, which could appeal to Mr. Bruno, who is himself a horse breeder upstate. The group says it would spend $30 million to $100 million over the life of the lease on capital improvements. 
 This group is proposing to open a temporary gambling floor by the end of the year while it works on overhauling the existing facilities. And, in a proposed second phase of development, it would add a Hard Rock Cafe. 
 With so much money on the line, there has been a whisper campaign as the bidders vie for supremacy, and even resentment among local New York tribes that bristle at the idea that the state would let an out-of-state tribe run the racino. 
 ''This is a New York project,'' said Frederick C. Bess, chairman of the Shinnecock Indian Nation on Long Island, which has sought to develop a casino at Aqueduct and elsewhere but lacks federal tribal recognition. ''I would think if any tribes would be considered, it would be a New York tribe.''
 Some critics also suggest that the Mohegan Sun group would not aggressively compete to keep New Yorkers here since its business in Connecticut has been enriched by cross-state traffic. 
 When asked about the issue, Marc Holliday, the chief executive of SL Green, said, ''I think that it's in the interest of New York State to have a gaming operator whose sole focus is going to be on maximizing revenues at the facility in New York City and not have any competing operations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Connecticut or other competing areas.'' 
 Mr. O'Farrell said, however, that Mohegan's database of its New York customers and its system of rewards points, which can be used at any Mohegan resort, would be a competitive advantage. 
 The bidding process is the latest step in the state's tortuous oversight of its thoroughbred racing franchise. In February, after years of delay, the state granted a 25-year extension to the New York Racing Association to oversee racing at the state's three thoroughbred tracks. The association has been plagued by scandal and mismanagement and is in bankruptcy court. 
 While racing has often been a sinkhole for taxpayers, state officials would like to see the Aqueduct racino -- and its 4,500 video lottery terminals, referred to as V.L.T.s -- help plug a $5 billion deficit projected for next year. 
 ''The State of New York has made it crystal clear to us they want revenue generated as soon as possible,'' said Mr. Bissett, of Delaware North. 
 John McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno, said: ''The sooner there's an agreement, the sooner we can get V.L.T.s up and running and have revenue for the state. That's the bottom line.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Renderings of the proposed racino at Aqueduct thoroughbred track in Queens that have been submitted by, from left, the Delaware North bidding group, owned by the Jacobs family of Buffalo
Capital Play, which includes the Mohegan tribe
and a group that includes Hard Rock International and the real estate firm SL Green. The state expects to sign a 30-year lease at the site.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THALDEN EMERY ARCHITECTS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAPITAL PLAY)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY EHRENKRANTZ ECKSTUT AND KUHN ARCHITECTS)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); BONDS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); POLITICS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); BOND ISSUES (64%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (54%); AIRPORTS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



144 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Iran Seems to Reject West's Offer

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
Iran's supreme religious leader said Sunday that his nation would not bow to pressure after Western powers announced Friday that they would offer a new package of incentives to coax Iran to give up its nuclear program. 
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme religious leader, who has the final word on state matters, did not refer directly to the country's nuclear program, but his comments seemed to suggest that Iran was not willing to compromise. 
 ''Have you not tested the Iranian nation?'' the ISNA news agency quoted him as asking during a speech in Fars Province on Sunday. ''We will forcefully continue on our path and will not allow the oppressors to step on our rights.'' 
 Ayatollah Khamenei said economic sanctions could not affect the nation's will. He was referring to action from the United Nations Security Council, which ordered a third set of sanctions against Iran in March. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and senior officials from Britain, France, Russia, China and Germany met Friday in London and said that they would offer a new package of incentives to Iran in an effort to persuade it to abandon its uranium-enrichment program. Details of the new package have not been made public. 
 Iran has rejected previous proposals in the past, stressing that it would not give up its heavy water enrichment program. 
 Iran's foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, was quoted in Sunday newspapers as saying that the new package should not cross Iran's ''red line.'' Officials have said in the past that Iran's red line was its uranium-enrichment program.
 Enrichment can make fuel for civilian nuclear reactors or, if taken to higher levels, for nuclear warheads. The United States and other Western countries have accused Iran of having a clandestine nuclear arms program, but Iran says its program is peaceful and is devoted solely to producing fuel for nuclear reactors that generate electricity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); RELIGION (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (74%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (74%); GERMANY (74%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



145 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Helping the Unemployed

 BODY:
Americans don't have to wait for the statistics to know these are very hard times. For the fourth month in a row, the economy lost jobs in April. The economists said the contraction was not as bad as expected -- 20,000 jobs were shed versus an anticipated loss of 75,000. Not as bad as expected is cold comfort. 
 The latest employment report shows other deepening problems for American workers, including slower wage growth, cutbacks in hours, a sharp increase in the number of part-timers who would prefer full-time work and lengthening spells of unemployment. 
 The White House response to the pain is to wait and see if things get even worse before calling for help for the unemployed. On Friday President Bush said that his administration had anticipated the slump and would combat it with tax rebates that were passed last February as part of the economic stimulus package. 
 There is no guarantee, however, that the rebates -- which are just now being distributed -- will spur the economy as hoped. Rather than spend the money, many indebted consumers are likely to use it to pay down debt, and some people, justifiably fearful of job loss, are likely to save it. 
 Besides, there's no more time to wait and see. In April, the number of Americans who had been out of work for at least 27 weeks (26 weeks is when unemployment benefits run out) rose to 1.35 million workers. In the past year, 2.74 million jobless workers have exhausted their benefits. 
 Job loss is clearly a hit to families' finances and, in the aggregate, to consumer spending and economic growth. Job loss coupled with the exhaustion of unemployment benefits leads not only to personal desperation, but will further damage consumer confidence, already sorely tested by the housing bust, the credit crunch and soaring prices for food and gasoline. 
 What is needed -- now -- is for Congress to extend jobless benefits for people who exhaust their initial 26 weeks of payments. Research is unequivocal that bolstered jobless benefits are more effective stimulus than tax rebates. They also have the advantage of being targeted to people in need. 
 The extension could be attached to the supplemental spending bill for the Iraq war, which may come before Congress as early as this week. Predictably, President Bush is balking, mainly because of his wrongheaded belief that tax cuts are the best solution to all problems. 
 The White House has also asserted that with the overall unemployment rate hovering around 5 percent, joblessness is not yet bad enough to warrant an extension of unemployment benefits. But in prior recessions, benefits had already been extended when long-term unemployment reached the current level. And in recent recessions, the unemployment rate didn't peak until the recession was basically over. Waiting for the rate to rise before extending benefits is almost sure to result in offering too little help, too late -- deepening the pain of the recession.
 Congress erred by not extending unemployment benefits in last February's stimulus package. Lawmakers and Mr. Bush now have a second chance to fix that mistake. They must not squander it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); IRAQ WAR (68%); FOOD PRICES (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



146 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Are Events on the Trail Changing Election Results?

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Democrats may be about to discover whether campaigning can in fact move the Democratic primary campaign.
 Since early this year, the familiar grooves of Senator Barack Obama's battle with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton have appeared all but impervious to events on the campaign trail. Consider exit poll results in three contests over more than two months: Alabama on Feb. 5, Ohio on March 4, and Pennsylvania on April 22.
 Among voters without a college education, Mrs. Clinton drew 78 percent in Alabama, 71 percent in Ohio, and 70 percent in Pennsylvania. Among black voters, Mr. Obama drew 84 percent, 87 percent and 90 percent in those three contests. Among voters older than 65, she drew 61 percent, 72 percent, 63 percent; among those under 30, he drew 64 percent, 61 percent, and 60 percent. 
 But the momentum Mrs. Clinton's campaign has shown among voters lately has raised at least the possibility of changing the mold. Tied, at best, early on in Indiana, which is next door to Mr. Obama's home of Illinois, Mrs. Clinton has moved ahead, some polls indicate. She has narrowed her deficit, polls also show, in North Carolina, where the large African-American population has long made Mr. Obama the favorite.
 Mrs. Clinton has managed this despite Mr. Obama's front-runner status, wide cash advantage and steady accumulation of superdelegates. After Tuesday's contests, the race moves on to the Clinton-friendly West Virginia, where blue-collar whites dominate the electorate even more than in Ohio and Pennsylvania.
 'Minimal Effects'
 Political scientists have long debated whether the labors of the candidates, strategists and campaign workers -- not to mention the journalists who chronicle them -- do much to change the results on election day. The dominant ''minimal effects'' school of interpretation has reasoned that what really count are fundamental factors like economic conditions and party identification.
 ''There has been a consensus that presidential campaigns are primarily the means by which we arrive at predictable outcomes,'' Daron R. Shaw of the University of Texas, Austin, wrote in ''The Race to 270: The Electoral College and the Campaign Strategies of 2000 and 2004.''
 To be sure, the early phase of the Democratic fight defied prediction in a big way: Mr. Obama displaced Mrs. Clinton as the perceived Democratic front-runner. But since, debates, television advertisements and other events have not appeared to sway many voters. 
 Is that now changing?
 Mr. Obama has acknowledged the damage he has suffered from the publicity over comments by the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., his former pastor. Last week, Mr. Obama tried again, weeks after his speech on race in Philadelphia, to stem the damage by condemning Mr. Wright's remarks to the National Press Club. Mrs. Clinton has sought to capitalize on the matter, as has the presumptive Republican nominee, Senator John McCain. 
 A second source of potential voter movement is the idea of a ''holiday'' from federal gasoline taxes. It is an unlikely club for Mrs. Clinton, who has promoted the idea after it was proposed in Pennsylvania by Mr. McCain. She enjoys the reputation of a policy wonk, and energy policy wonks have generally dismissed the gas tax holiday as an ineffective, perhaps even counterproductive, gesture. Yet in a more refined version of the disdain George Wallace once displayed for ''pointy-headed'' intellectuals, the wealthy, Wellesley-educated former first lady has positioned herself as rebuffing ''elite opinion'' to put money in the pockets of cash-strapped motorists.
 Mr. Obama has attacked the idea as precisely the sort of old-politics gimmickry he is running against. But polls so far have not shown evidence of progress. Andrew Kohut of the Pew Research Center, explaining an erosion in Mr. Obama's national image, points to a significant drop in the proportion of Democrats describing him as ''down to earth.''
 Changing Landscape
 Mr. Obama's campaign has responded in part by suggesting the mathematical inevitability of his nomination. Announcing another superdelegate pickup over the weekend, an Obama spokesman pointed out that he was just 277 delegates short of what was needed for nomination -- while maintaining a lead of 139 delegates over Mrs. Clinton.
 According to a spreadsheet of projections the Obama campaign made and inadvertently released earlier this year, Mr. Obama could be fewer than 80 delegates short once remaining contests have been held: Indiana and North Carolina on Tuesday, West Virginia on May 13, Kentucky and Oregon on May 20, Puerto Rico on June 1, and Montana and South Dakota on June 3.
 But those projections themselves underscore the way the campaign may be changing, at least if current polls are accurate. They forecast that Mr. Obama would win Indiana by seven percentage points.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); SUPERDELEGATES (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); WRITERS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (77%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (75%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



147 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: A Step Back For Microsoft

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, walked away from a Yahoo deal on Saturday still looking for an answer to his company's fundamental problem: its time-tested recipe for success isn't working against Google, the leader in the current wave of Internet computing. 
 With a bid for Yahoo, Microsoft was trying to buy its way out of the problem. It was a controversial step and a gamble, but at least it was a big move. Now, there is no clear prospect of a quick fix for Microsoft, as the center of gravity in computing continues to move away from the personal computer, Microsoft's stronghold, and to the Internet.
 Microsoft remains a powerful company, and highly profitable, but its stock price has stagnated amid doubts about future growth. Years of antitrust scrutiny have tempered its competitive behavior in new markets. 
 Mr. Ballmer, 52, must lead the Internet-era shift in strategy and corporate culture without the man who, to many, is still the public face of Microsoft. Bill Gates, the company's cofounder, chairman and largest shareholder, who hired Mr. Ballmer 28 years ago, is stepping away from day-to-day work at Microsoft in July to focus on philanthropy.
 ''Steve Ballmer will be defined by how he manages this tremendous Internet transformation over the next few years, and his record hasn't been distinguished so far,'' said George F. Colony, chief executive of Forrester Research, a technology research firm.
 Competitive zeal, persistence and patient investment have been crucial to Microsoft's triumphs over the years, as it built businesses instead of buying them. The formula worked again and again, in personal computer operating systems, applications like word processors and spreadsheets, data center software, and even video game systems. 
 The same tactics also vanquished the challenge from the early leader in Internet browsing software, Netscape Communications, in the 1990s. But Microsoft's campaign in the browser rivalry led to the sweeping federal antitrust suit against the company, filed in 1998, and continuing antitrust oversight in the United States and Europe.
 Microsoft's competitive behavior is more restrained these days in the aftermath of its antitrust troubles, industry veterans and analysts say. That helps to explain why Microsoft has struggled in this round of competition, especially against Google, which has leapt far ahead in markets like Web advertising.
 ''Microsoft's pursuit of Yahoo and its antitrust troubles have the same root,'' said Timothy F. Bresnahan, an economist at Stanford University and a former Justice Department antitrust official. ''The future of mass-market computing is not the personal computer.''
 Microsoft's effort to grab Yahoo and its ultimate decision to abandon the campaign displayed the two sides of Mr. Ballmer's business style: high-octane competitive aggression and analytical pragmatism. 
 Mr. Ballmer informed a startled Jerry Yang, Yahoo's chief executive, that Microsoft would be making an unfriendly offer for Yahoo in an afternoon phone call the day before the bid was made public on Feb. 1. The stock-and-cash offer, valued at $44.6 billion, or $31 a share, was 60 percent more than what Yahoo's shares had traded for the day before.
 On April 5, frustrated by the lack of negotiations, Mr. Ballmer sent Yahoo a threatening letter, suggesting Microsoft would go directly to Yahoo shareholders for a vote if Yahoo's management did not agree to a merger within three weeks. 
 But in a meeting two weeks ago with Mr. Yang, it became clear to Mr. Ballmer that he needed to reach a friendly deal or withdraw entirely, according to people close to him who attended the meeting. The small group met in downtown Portland, Ore., at the offices of the law firm founded by Mr. Gates's father.
 Mr. Yang made a lengthy presentation, using Microsoft's PowerPoint software, that ended with a page stating, in bold letters, that Microsoft's offer ''substantially undervalues'' Yahoo. But when Mr. Ballmer asked what price would value the company properly, Mr. Yang refused to even discuss the subject, according to a person at the meeting.
 As the Microsoft team left, this person said, one of Mr. Ballmer's lieutenants whispered, ''They are going to burn the furniture if we go hostile. They are going to destroy the place.''
 On Saturday, the two men again failed to reach an agreement on a fair price, and Mr. Ballmer walked away. 
 The decision also showed Mr. Ballmer's analytic discipline; he had his number, and he wasn't going further. 
 For most of his career, Mr. Ballmer has been overshadowed by Mr. Gates. Their friendship started in their days as students at Harvard University; their business partnership began when Mr. Ballmer joined Microsoft. 
 Though he became chief executive in 2000, Mr. Ballmer has typically been cast as a marketing dynamo: tireless, hyperkinetic and a booming orator, renowned for his uninhibited performances at Microsoft sales meetings. But Mr. Ballmer, colleagues say, has a deep mastery of strategy and finance. He is a math whiz who as a student scored a perfect 800 on the SAT math exam.
 Yet Mr. Ballmer's business skills have not yet helped Microsoft much in trying to catch Google, analysts say. The Silicon Valley powerhouse is a smart, nimble and aggressive competitor, and the leader of a broad shift toward Internet computing. 
 That transition began in the 1990s, and Netscape was part of it. But the tilt toward the Internet has accelerated in recent years. People now go online from a PC or cellphone, while most of the processing and services they use are located in vast data centers run by Google, Yahoo, Amazon, Facebook and other Internet companies. Google and others have even begun offering online word processors and spreadsheets as alternatives to Microsoft's desktop products.
 Microsoft has made huge investments in the online field, but its heritage, profits and leadership come from the desktop PC software business. 
 Looking at Microsoft today, Mitchell Kapor, an elder statesman of modern computing, is reminded of another industry power that was chastened by a lengthy antitrust struggle and a seismic shift in the technology landscape -- I.B.M. in the 1980s and early 1990s, as the mainframe gave way to personal computing.
 ''I.B.M. came out of those years still large and enormously important to its customers, but I.B.M. was displaced by Microsoft,'' he said. ''I.B.M. was no longer the defining company.''
 ''The irony is that what Microsoft did to I.B.M., Google is doing to Microsoft,'' said Mr. Kapor, founder of Lotus Development, which made the leading spreadsheet program in the 1980s, and the founding chairman of the Mozilla Foundation, developer of the free Web browser Firefox. 
 In the current round of Internet competition, Microsoft must be careful to not antagonize antitrust authorities. Despite years of scrutiny, sanctions and fines, Microsoft's lucrative business remains largely untouched. Still, analysts and rivals say, Microsoft is a more cautious competitor these days. 
 For example, one ingredient in Microsoft's formula for success has been to link new software to its dominant PC operating system, Windows, either with proprietary formats or by simply bundling new software into Windows. It did that long ago with its desktop word processing and spreadsheet programs, and it used the bundling tactic most forcefully with Web browsing software in the 1990s.
 Microsoft declared the browser a part of the operating system and gave it away free. The move, according to Microsoft, was done to benefit consumers. Rivals and antitrust officials saw it as a blatant tactic to stifle competition from Netscape. 
 This bundling strategy was a central element in the federal antitrust suit in the United States, and it has been challenged in Europe as well. The Bush administration, however, settled the federal case without restricting Microsoft's freedom to put new products and features into Windows. 
 ''But the legacy of the antitrust suit was to make Microsoft much more cautious about bundling for fear of reigniting the problem,'' Mr. Kapor said. 
 In Internet search, Microsoft has not used its dominance in desktop and browser software to favor its offering called Live Search. In the upper-right corner of a Web browser window, there is typically a slender box for typing in search terms. In search, the equivalent of the bundling formula would be to send those queries to Microsoft's search service by default. 
 ''It could have, but Microsoft never did that with Google,'' said Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management. ''The antitrust process made Microsoft more restrained, and it did change the company's culture.''
 Now, without Yahoo, Microsoft may seek smaller deals or return to its traditional game plan, relying on patient investment and persistence to build a more competitive online business. 
 Speaking to a group of investors and analysts in 2005, Mr. Ballmer said no one should doubt Microsoft's determination. ''We will do well,'' he said. ''Whether it's me or the guy who replaces me because we don't do well. We'll keep coming, and we will do well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven A. Ballmer is leading Microsoft as technology moves away from personal computers and toward the Web and cellphones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN P. CASEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (72%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (92%); BILL GATES (58%); JERRY YANG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



148 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Call Victory A Sign G.O.P. Tactic Failed

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Democratic victory in a special House election in Louisiana this weekend was interpreted by leading Democrats on Sunday as a sign that Republicans would fail in their efforts to damage Congressional candidates by tying them to national figures and presidential contenders. 
 Party officials said the victory by Don Cazayoux in a Baton Rouge-area district over the Republican candidate, Woody Jenkins, showed that the economy and other concerns remained more important to voters than whether Mr. Cazayoux (pronounced KAZH-oo) would be an ally of Senator Barack Obama or Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker. The election marked the second time this year that Democrats have taken over a seat in a Republican stronghold.
 ''This was obviously the Republican test case for nationalizing Congressional races, and it failed completely,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
 Mr. Cazayoux defeated Mr. Jenkins 49 percent to 46 percent in a district held by Republicans for more than 30 years. The incumbent, Richard H. Baker, had resigned to take a lobbying job.
 National Republican groups had spent heavily on advertising that sought to connect Mr. Cazayoux to Mr. Obama as the furor was raging over incendiary comments by Mr. Obama's former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr.
 Mr. Obama said in a written statement that the results showed ''the people of Louisiana rejected the politics of division and distraction, and voted for real change.''
 Republican officials said the advertising onslaught against Mr. Cazayoux cut into his lead in polls and pointed to problems for Democrats. 
 ''This election speaks to the potential toxicity of an Obama candidacy and the possible drag he could have down-ballot this fall,'' said a memorandum from the National Republican Congressional Committee, which called the race a warning shot to Democrats.
 Strategists in both parties said that Mr. Jenkins, who had lost in a statewide race before, was a flawed candidate and that the election again showed Democratic advantages in recruiting strong candidates. The Louisiana win, which followed a Democratic victory in a special House election in Illinois in March, increased the party's ranks in the House to 235 out of 435 seats. A Mississippi seat left by a Republican will be filled in a special election on May 13. 
 The focus will now shift to that race, in which Mr. Obama and Mr. Wright have shown up in advertisements being run against the Democrat, Travis Childers. Mr. Childers came within 400 votes of winning in the preliminary election last month. But Republicans, eager to avoid another loss, are expected to intensify their efforts over the next week on behalf of their party's candidate, Greg Davis.
 The victory by Mr. Cazayoux, who now becomes a superdelegate to be sought by the Democratic presidential candidates, increases the difficulties that Republicans face in winning back control of the House in the November elections. To recapture the House, Republicans, at present, would need to take over at least 18 Democratic seats, defend more than two dozen positions left open because of retirements and avoid losses by incumbents.
 The party did, as expected, hold on to the House seat vacated by Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana with a victory on Saturday by Steve Scalise, a state lawmaker. The new Louisiana lawmakers are expected to take their House seats this week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Don Cazayoux won a House seat long held by Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIZ CONDO/THE ADVOCATE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SUPERDELEGATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); RANKINGS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: DONALD J CAZAYOUX JR (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (74%); TRAVIS CHILDERS (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (91%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008



149 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2060 words

HEADLINE: Visions of America

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH and YASMIN CHIN EISENHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students consider both internal and external views of the United States. They then create a project that tells about their vision of the past, present and future of the country by pairing their own written statements with photographs. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students consider both internal and external views of the United States. They then create a project that tells about their vision of the past, present and future of the United States by pairing their own written statements with photographs.
Author(s):
Sarah Kavanagh, The New York Times Learning Network
Yasmin Chin Eisenhauer, Bank Street College of Education in New York
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 hour
Objectives:
Students will:
1. Write about visions of the United States from internal and external perspectives and discuss these visions with their classmates.
2. Examine Thomas L. Friedman's take on the challenges that face the United States, and what the country will need in the future, by reading and discussing his column "Who Will Tell the People?"
3. Create a project that pairs student-written phrases about America with photographs to tell the story of their vision.
4. Write a letter to the editor about what they want for the United States.
Resources / Materials:
-pens/pencils
-paper and student journals
-classroom board
-magazines, newspapers and other resources with photographs
-scissors
-computers with Internet access (if available)
-handout with a blank map of the United States (one per student)
-materials or technology for creating a video, PowerPoint presentation or scrapbook
-copies of the column "Who Will Tell the People?" found online at (one per student)
Activities / Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW
When students enter the room, give each one a handout with an outline of the United States on it. (One place to find blank outlines is About.com: http://geography.about.com/library/blank/blxusa.html). Instruct half of your students to fill in the map with words, phrases and images that represent their own vision of America. Instruct the other half to do the same thing, but from the perspective of someone from another country. (To tailor this to your curriculum or to tie it to a current event, you may wish to specify that the second group take the perspective of a country they have studied or are currently studying or considering.) Tell them that they may wish to include values, images, ideals, actions, adjectives and/or other associations they have with the United States.
Once all students have had a chance to respond, have them share what they have written with the class. What emotions does the United States inspire? What were the differences between the responses of the students who completed the exercise from their own perspective and those of the students who did it from the perspective of a foreigner? Does America look different from the inside than it does from the outside? If so, why?
2. As a class, read and discuss the column "Who Will Tell the People?" (), focusing on the following questions:
a. What does the columnist, Thomas Friedman, mean when he says that "people want to do nation-building ... in America"?
b. How does it make you feel to hear someone say that "we're just not that strong anymore" as a nation? What support does he offer for this statement?
c. What do you think Mr. Friedman means when he connects President George W. Bush's post-9/11 exhortation that Americans keep shopping for consumer goods with the president having to go "shopping the world for discount gasoline"?
d. What do you make of Mr. Friedman's take on how American values have changed over time? Do you agree? Why, or why not?
e. Are you surprised by Mr. Friedman's description of the New York airport and the airport in Singapore? Why or why not?
f. Why are Singapore's investments in infrastructure and scientific research important for Americans to notice?
g. Do you agree with Mr. Friedman about what we need in a president? Why or why not?
h. Do you think that "the notion that the idealism [as espoused by Barack Obama] has inspired in so many young people doesn't matter"? Why or why not?
i. What do you think the United States needs to do to be considered a thriving nation?
3. Inform your students that they are going to create a project that tells the story of the United States -- in a video, a PowerPoint presentation or a scrapbook format (depending on available classroom technology) using words and pictures.
Write the following phrases on the board: "America was..., America is..., America can be..." Direct students to complete these three phrases from their own points of view, drawing on what they wrote in their journal response at the beginning of class, the column that they just read and class discussion. Let them know that they should write at least three sentences for each phrase. Instruct students to keep in mind different aspects of life in the United States while they are writing their phrases. Write the following categories on the board to help students start thinking about all of the different parts of American life: health, education, employment/livelihood, civil and other rights, activism, the military, economics, international relations, personal stories, the American dream, poverty and wealth, government and politics, science and technology, the arts, literature, entertainment and anything else that you would like to include.
After all students have written their phrases, they should next begin searching for photographs that capture the essence of what they have written. They will pair these photographs with their completed phrases to create their project. Provide newspapers, magazines, photography books and other resources (as well as Internet access, if availiable), which students can use to find pictures for their phrases. You can also direct them to the following links to find photographs:
-Historical Picture Collections directory: 
-The New York Times Multimedia/Photos page: 
-The Library of Congress's Prints and Photographs Online Archive: 
-PictureHistory.com: 
-Old Pictures: 
Let students know that they should find two or more pictures to go along with each of the three phrases that they wrote. Tell them that the pictures that they choose should deepen the story they are telling and present it in a complex, thought-provoking way. For example, pairing the phrase "America was never easy" with a picture of a Revolutionary war monument, a picture of civil rights protesters and a picture of a Dust Bowl family helps the viewer understand the phrase in a variety of ways.
Once students have found photographs to accompany their phrases, have them create their videos, PowerPoint presentations or scrapbooks. As desired, the final product can be created by the whole class or by individual students.
If students are creating their projects individually, have them share their finished products with the class; if it is a class project, show the whole group the final product. How do students feel about the United States after completing this project? Do their creations seem hopeful over all? Why or why not? Is there a common thread that ties them all together? If so, what is it?
4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK
Individually, students re-read the last paragraph of the Friedman column and then write a letter to the editor in response to the question, "What do you want for America?" The students' letters can be submitted to the New York Times Learning Network at http://nytimes.com/learning/students/letters/index.html.
Further Questions for Discussion:
-What do you think America needs most right now?
-What do you think will be the most important quality for America's new president to possess and why?
-Do you think America is headed in the right direction economically? Politically? Environmentally? In terms of values? Why?
Evaluation / Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on their initial journal writing, their participation in class and small group discussions, their thoughtful completion in writing the three phrases, their creative completion of a video, slide-show or scrapbook, and their thoughtful completion of a letter to the editor.
Vocabulary:
polling, overwhelming, subverting, leverage, initiative, buckling, subprime, infamous, mantra, luxurious, grimy, decrepit, infrastructure, downsized, morale, clusters, potential, idealism, trivial, enlisted, renewable
Extension Activities:
1. Research Thomas L. Friedman's work. Two places to start are http://www.thomaslfriedman.com/ and http://topics.nytimes.com/top/opinion/editorialsandoped/oped/columnists/thomaslfriedman/index.html. Then, write a profile of Mr. Friedman. What are his major areas of interest? What are his perspectives on key contemporary issues? Do you agree with him about major issues? Why or why not?
2. Conduct an interview with someone who grew up outside of the United States about his or her vision of America. Write a reflection piece about what you learned from conducting this interview.
3. Write a position paper explaining your take on the 2008 presidential election. Who are you supporting and why? If you are undecided, what reasons do you have for being undecided?
4. Write a profile of Teach for America (http://www.teachforamerica.org/) or Special Olympics (http://www.specialolympics.org/). Who was the founder? What is the organization's mission? What are the qualifications for employment? How can you support the program?
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Global History - Research the economy of Dubai or Singapore. Write an economic profile of one of these countries that includes G.N.P., G.D.P., major imports and exports, median household income and other important economic markers.
Economics - Create a poster comparing current trends in the American economy with trends in other countries. Your poster should include charts and graphs, but also commentary. What should be done in the United States so that the economy remains competitive and healthy?
Teaching with The Times - Choose two Times columnists and read their archived columns, and follow their new columns for several weeks (http://topics.nytimes.com/top/opinion/editorialsandoped/oped/columnists/). Write a paper comparing and contrasting their positions on major contemporary issues. To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8:
Civics Standard 9- Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Identifies fundamental values and principles that are expressed in basic documents, significant political speeches and writings, and individual and group actions that embody fundamental values and principles; understands how certain values are fundamental to American public life.
Civics Standard 11- Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society. Benchmarks: Knows basic values and principles that Americans share; knows why it is important to the individual and society that Americans understand and act on their shared political values and principles.
Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses style and structure appropriate for specific audiences and purposes; writes expository compositions; writes persuasive compositions.
Grades 9-12:
Civics Standard 9- Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Understands how the institutions of government reflect fundamental values and principles; understands the interdependence among certain values and principles; understands the significance of fundamental values and principles for the individual and society.
Civics Standard 11- Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society. Benchmarks: Knows beliefs that are common to American political culture; knows how shared ideas and values of American political culture are reflected in various sources and documents.
Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Applies reading skills and strategies to a variety of informational texts; knows the defining characteristics of a variety of informational texts; determines the effectiveness of techniques used to convey a viewpoint.

        
Who Will Tell the People?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); HISTORY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); WRITERS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); PRESENTATION SOFTWARE (66%) Academic Skills; American History; Civics; History of North America; Language Arts; Technology; Visual Literacy

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (57%); ABOUT.COM INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011



150 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Service Sector Improved Its Hiring in April, a Survey Finds

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Service companies added jobs last month for the first time this year, according to a private survey released Monday. But the survey, from the Institute for Supply Management, also showed that activity slowed down at the nation's service industries as inflation further squeezed businesses already pressured by falling demand. 
 The apparent rise in employment helped nudge the institute's nonmanufacturing index to 52 in April, from 49.6 in March. Readings above 50 indicate expansion. It was the first month to indicate growth after a full quarter of contraction. 
 The positive reading beat economists' expectations and represented a remarkable rebound from January, when the institute's business activity index plunged to its lowest level since the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in 2001. Some economists took the survey's findings as a sign that businesses would manage to muddle through the current economic turmoil. 
 ''However you cut it, it tells us that the current downturn is relatively mild,'' said John Lonski, the chief economist of Moody's Investors Service. 
 But others said the survey also contained worrisome signs about the service sector, which has been hurt by the housing slump. 
 Businesses in the service sector, which makes up a vast majority of American companies, scaled back production last month to reduce their product inventories, which have become bloated as Americans spend less. 
 New orders were essentially flat for the second consecutive month, a sign that demand was weakening. 
 ''One less-bad month after three disastrous readings is not enough to signal a shift in the trend,'' Ian Shepherdson, a London-based economist at High Frequency Economics, said in a note to clients. 
 Export orders, a source of strength for businesses in recent months, fell sharply, and import orders stumbled. Businesses were also forced to pay more for wholesale goods as the price of crude oil surged to another record high.
 The survey divides the service sector into 18 industries. Last month, 12 of these reported growth and 6 reported contraction. Among April's gainers were mining companies, education services and leisure industries like arts and entertainment. Financial firms, health care companies and tourism-related businesses reported a decrease in activity.
 Companies in the real estate industry said their businesses grew in April, despite the worst residential housing slump in decades. Anthony S. Nieves, an executive at the Hilton hotel chain who oversees the survey, said that category included commercial as well as residential real estate, along with rental and leasing companies. 
 The survey does not differentiate between part-time and full-time jobs and does not take salary into account, Mr. Nieves said. A Labor Department report last week showed that the service industry added 90,000 jobs in April, but also indicated that American employees were being paid less and working fewer hours. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); JOB CREATION (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%); HOME PRICES (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NEW ORDERS (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); HOTEL CHAINS (71%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (62%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); LEASING INDUSTRY (60%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); MINES & MINING (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



151 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; POSTINGS RECENT ENTRIES FROM OUR BLOGS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS RECENT ENTRIES FROM OUR BLOGS

 BODY:
Well
 From Tara Parker-Pope's blog, nytimes.com/well.
 More than a third of middle and high school students may be victims of sexual harassment by their classmates. The harassment -- which can include name-calling and unwanted touching -- is often largely dismissed by officials as normal student behavior. But the emotional toll appears to be even worse than physical bullying, according to new research published in the journal Sex Roles. 
 From A--alire: Why hasn't anyone mentioned the parents? Teachers get one or two hours a day with these kids, administrators get even less.
 Molly Kolodny: Over the past several decades, as women have made gains in so many spheres, there has been a relentless, covert backlash: a re-characterizing of girls and women as sexual.
 Mary Rodriguez: The choice is not simply between ''zero tolerance'' and permissiveness .... When we take such either/or stands, we miss a chance to help young people develop an appreciation for appropriate social behavior.
 Dot Earth
 From Andrew C. Revkin's blog, nytimes.com/dotearth.
 Gen. Michael V. Hayden, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, described three troublesome trends that distinguish this century from the last, and exploding populations in poor regions topped his list. 
 Interestingly, energy shortages (and climate change) were not on the list; the others were China's emergence and the growing divisions between the United States and Europe.
 From Steve Salmony: This issue of the unbridled propagation of the human species has got to be reasonably and sensibly acknowledged. How else can the family of humanity address and overcome the global threats to human and environmental health that are ominously looming even now?
 Julie Walsh: Though some often rant about how the world's population will grow 50 percent by 2050 and that, therefore, we will run out of resources and become cannibals, ... they never mention that the world's total population should reach only 10 billion and actually start declining around 2075, if not sooner.
 TierneyLab
 From John Tierney's blog, nytimes.com/tierneylab. 
 I've been skeptical of some of the alleged evils of petroleum, but I bought into the recently popular idea among development experts that reserves of oil and other natural resources are a curse to many countries. What I saw while reporting in Iraq jibed with academic studies concluding that a wealth of natural resources did a country more harm than good. It was an appealing and clever counterintuitive idea -- but perhaps too clever by half. 
 The easy money from natural resources, the theory went, helped finance civil wars and weakened civic institutions by enabling repressive governments to buy off opponents and stay in power.
 But a new report in Science argues that the causation goes the other way: the conflicts and bad policies created the heavy dependence on exports of natural resources. When chaos and economic policies scare off foreign investors and drive local entrepreneurs abroad to look for better opportunities, the economy becomes skewed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (87%); NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); BULLYING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); TRENDS (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (76%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HAYDEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



152 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: At a Festival of New Plays, Money Makes Two Plots Go Round

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

DATELINE: COSTA MESA, Calif. 

 BODY:
With the possible exception of a few hedge fund billionaires, is anyone in America not worried about money, as the stock market settles into a state of permanent hysteria, the economy lumbers, and the cost of living leaps?
 So the two new plays at the center of the 11th annual Pacific Playwrights Festival here opened in a naturally sympathetic atmosphere. Both ''The Injured Party,'' by Richard Greenberg, and ''What They Have,'' by Kate Robin, consider how far men and women will push themselves -- or each other -- to get the money for what they want (or what they think they need), whether it is a house in the country or the medical treatment necessary to conceive a child. 
 The theme is ideally suited to the first-class regional theater that hosts the festival. South Coast Repertory is in wealth-ridden, sun-baked Orange County, south of Los Angeles, now memorialized in pop culture as home to the mesmerizingly vapid, semi-fictional young people of MTV's ''Laguna Beach'' (and of course their fully fictional counterparts on the ''The OC,'' now terminated). The theater sits across a wide boulevard from a glistening, high-end mall roughly the size of the West Village, a gargantuan symbol of the supremacy of commerce in American culture.
 But under the guidance of the founding artistic directors Martin Benson and David Emmes, South Coast Rep has been flying a big, bright flag for art for more than four decades. The theater has long been one of the most steadfast and prolific producers of new American plays. More than 50 works first presented in some form at the 10 previous Pacific Playwrights Festivals were subsequently seen elsewhere.
 The list includes Lynn Nottage's ''Intimate Apparel'' (a New York Drama Critics Circle award winner), Rolin Jones's ''Intelligent Design of Jenny Chow'' and two Pulitzer Prize winners, Nilo Cruz's ''Anna in the Tropics'' and David Lindsay-Abaire's ''Rabbit Hole.'' South Coast Rep commissions and produces more plays during its annual subscription seasons, and did so before the festival's inception.
 This year the festival presented two full productions (the plays by Mr. Greenberg and Ms. Robin), one fully staged workshop production and four readings, all with top-flight casts and experienced directors. On the eve of the festival Mr. Benson and Mr. Emmes received the Margo Jones Medal for their careers in the theater, an honor they certainly deserve.
 Ms. Robin's ''What They Have,'' the better of the festival's two plays about money and art and artists without money, is a repartee-rich variation on a popular genre, the urban-couple-in-crisis play. (''Dinner With Friends,'' Donald Margulies's Pulitzer Prize winner, is the standard model.) Set in contemporary Los Angeles, the play explores the emotional strains that the decision to have a child -- or the inability to have one -- can put on married couples during the years when a pregnancy can be a tense and potentially traumatic experience, not to mention an expensive one. More broadly, it asks how we get what we want out of life, and how we learn to stop wanting it if we can't get it. (The popular self-help program ''The Secret,'' which insists that the fault is not in our stars but in ourselves, is practically a supporting character.)
 Suzanne (Nancy Bell) and Matt (Kevin Rahm) have just experienced a third miscarriage. The wounds are still fresh when they spend an evening with their friends Connie (Marin Hinkle) and Jonas (Matt Letscher), catching up and arguing about the follies of American culture. (Connie and Jonas are rabid reality TV watchers -- with irony, of course. Suzanne and Matt don't have a television -- with piety, of course.) 
 The two couples' financial fortunes have radically diverged. Connie is a successful movie producer, and Jonas has created a hit television show. They casually disparage the culture they work in (Jonas wanted to be a novelist), but they can reward themselves for enduring the humiliation of compromise by buying lots of nice things. Connie has recently become pregnant, almost by accident, their focus having been their consuming careers.
 This galls Matt, who resents his friends' success, as less successful friends so naturally do, and scorns them as sellouts. A musician who never made it, Matt comforts himself with his integrity while earning pennies teaching music to grade schoolers. Suzanne makes a decent living selling her paintings, but she and Matt cannot afford expensive fertility treatments, a frustration that has her searching for larger, spiritual reasons for her childlessness (hence the DVD of ''The Secret'') and needling Matt to get off his aesthetic high horse and exploit their friendship with Connie and Jonas for another crack at worldly success. 
 Ms. Robin wrote for HBO's popular ''Six Feet Under,'' and like many playwrights who also work in television, she can produce reams of chatty, entertaining dialogue for characters that audiences will find cozily familiar. ''What They Have'' is also sensitive and smart in its analysis of the shifting emotional dynamics both between couples and within them.
 Unfortunately, also like many playwrights who work in television, Ms. Robin is less adept at dramatic structure. ''What They Have,'' directed by Chris Fields, is enervatingly inert. Most of the scenes are duologues in which a bone of contention is at first awkwardly ignored, then acknowledged, then gnawed at excessive length. The lack of a strong narrative thrust would be less inhibiting if each scene were shrewdly and ruthlessly edited. (The play is heavy on pop-culture one-liners.)
 Still, ''What They Have'' is marked by a sincerity and a probing honesty about the way people live today that is painfully absent from ''The Injured Party,'' yet another disappointing play by Mr. Greenberg, this time a comedy about a frustrated would-be artist, a gay New Yorker who contemplates solving his problems by bumping off his grandmother. 
 Not kidding, I'm afraid. The peevish Seth Sutter (Reg Rogers) spends the first third of the play spewing bile about his fabulously wealthy grandmother Maxene (Cynthia Harris); the next third plotting her murder (in fantasy) and neglecting her to the point of fatal grief (for real); the final third wallowing in self-hatred at his callousness -- having inherited a big chunk of change. At no point does he emerge as a sympathetic, credible or even distinct character. 
 Mr. Greenberg has become increasingly prolific since he won a Tony Award for the gay-baseball-player comedy ''Take Me Out,'' churning out plays that always receive first-class productions but increasingly fail to merit them. ''The Injured Party'' is derivative both of Mr. Greenberg's own work (''Hurrah at Last'') and of New York-set comedies about Jewish families like Charles Busch's ''Tale of the Allergist's Wife.'' Aimless and shoddily structured, it is among Mr. Greenberg's most ineffectual plays, lacking the conviction to take the leap into absurdity or the focus for sharp satire.
 The other plays at the festival, not officially open to critical assessment, were familiar in style, substance or both, and of varying degrees of accomplishment. It seems probable that most will have some future life on the regional circuit. (That's faint praise; too many new American plays are sentimental, blandly pseudo-literary or unadventurous -- flaws exhibited by one or another of the works here.)
 But the sour aftertaste left behind by ''The Injured Party'' was dispelled entirely on Sunday morning, when the festival drew to a close with a reading of Amy Freed's ''You, Nero,'' an uproarious comedy set during the declining years of the Roman Empire. Even in a bare-bones staged reading -- a format hardly congenial to a broad, bawdy gagfest -- Ms. Freed's play delighted almost from start to finish. 
 A spoof of theater through the ages -- from Sophocles to ''A Chorus Line'' -- ''You, Nero'' makes lively sport of contemporary American culture, as Ms. Freed imagines the mincing Nero (a magnificent Danny Scheie -- but Nathan Lane might want to call his agent now) commissioning an image-primping pageant from a down-on-his-luck dramatist. Nero has banished tragedy, preferring fancy spectacles and saliva-generating gore-fests.
 The slams at the puerile appeal of popular movies and television are predictable but still enjoyable, the theatrical in-jokes silly but inspired. Indeed, Ms. Freed's gloriously funny play is its own argument for the continued viability of an endangered species, the stage comedy. I'm tempted to quote at length, but the play's delirious charm would surely fizzle in sober newsprint. 
 For evidence of its irresistible appeal I'll just report that the audience staggered out into the sunny spring afternoon with stomachs sore from laughter, and that I await a New York production with unusual relish.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Danny Scheie, left, and Erik Sorensen performing in a staged reading of the comedy ''You, Nero,'' by Amy Freed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY WEISER/SCR)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRY DIROCCO/SCR)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); COST OF LIVING (77%); WRITERS (77%); LINGERIE (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008



153 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Appeasing the Gods, With Insurance

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
Suppose you're preparing to travel by air. Which of these precautions do you think is most likely to prevent your plane from crashing?
 A) Sacrificing a gilt-horned bull on an altar.
 B) Sacrificing two goats on the tarmac. 
 C) Buying flight insurance. 
 I'm guessing you didn't go for the bull sacrifice. Although this preboarding procedure was practiced by ancient Greek travelers, as Homer reported in grisly detail, today there are serious doubts about its efficacy, if only because of the litany of tourist woes in ''The Odyssey.''
 The goat option was tested at Katmandu Airport in September to propitiate Akash Bhairab, the Hindu sky god. Officials of Nepal Airlines told Reuters that they had sacrificed two goats in front of a Boeing 757 whose mechanical problems had forced the airline to suspend some flights. 
 ''The snag in the plane has now been fixed, and the aircraft has resumed its flights,'' one airline official reported triumphantly. Nevertheless, it is probably premature to put much faith in a single experiment that so far, to my knowledge, has not been replicated. 
 We do, though, have abundant data regarding option C. Last year, tens of millions of people bought life insurance for scheduled flights of airlines in the United States. Not one of those insured passengers died in a crash -- and this was not just a coincidence, at least not to many of the people who bought the insurance.
 No, at some level they believed that their insurance helped keep the plane aloft, according to psychologists with new experimental evidence of just how weirdly superstitious people can be.
 We buy insurance not just for peace of mind or to protect ourselves financially, but because we share the ancient Greeks' instinct for appeasing the gods. 
 We may not slaughter animals anymore to ward off a plague, but we think buying health insurance will keep us from getting sick. Our brains may understand meteorology, but in our guts we still think that not carrying an umbrella will make it rain, a belief that was demonstrated in experiments by Jane Risen of the University of Chicago and Thomas Gilovich of Cornell. 
 ''It is an irony of the post-Enlightenment world,'' they conclude, ''that so many people who don't believe in fate refuse to tempt it.'' The psychologists first identified this reluctance last year by reconsidering a well-known superstition about lottery tickets. Experimenters had repeatedly found that once people were given a lottery ticket, they would refuse to trade it for another ticket despite being offered a cash bonus and reassured that the other ticket was just as likely to win.
 This superstitious behavior had been explained with the theory of ''anticipated regret'': Even though the people realized the odds were no different for any ticket, they anticipated feeling especially stupid if they traded away a winner, so they held on to their ticket just to avoid that regret. 
 But there's also another reason, as Dr. Risen and Dr. Gilovich reported after running a complicated lottery game with cash prizes for competing teams. If a player watched his teammate (who was secretly a confederate of the researchers) trade away a lottery number, the player actually believed the new number was less likely to win, and he would hedge his bet accordingly. 
 The fear of tempting fate showed up in further experiments with Cornell students. When told about an applicant to graduate school at Stanford who had been given a Stanford T-shirt by his mother, people assumed he would hurt his chances for admission if he had the hubris to wear it. And they believed that a professor was more likely to call on them in class if they didn't do the assigned reading.
 Even people who consciously reject superstitions seem to have these gut feelings, says Orit Tykocinski, a professor of psychology at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya in Israel. She found that rationalists were just as likely as superstitious people to believe that insurance would ward off accidents. 
 In one of her experiments, players drew colored balls out of an urn and lost all their money if they picked a blue one. Some players were randomly forced to buy insurance policies that let them keep half their money if they drew a blue one. These policies didn't diminish their risk of drawing a blue ball -- but the insured players rated their risk lower than the uninsured players rated theirs. 
 That same magical thinking was evident when Dr. Tykocinski asked some people to imagine buying travel insurance before getting on a plane, and others to imagine not buying it because they ran out of time at the airport. Sure enough, the ones with insurance figured they were less likely to lose their bags, get sick or have an accident. 
 These results presumably come as no surprise to marketers of travel insurance, which is now purchased by half of American leisure travelers -- a fivefold increase since 2001, according to the United States Travel Insurance Association. As a purely economic investment, some of this insurance can be dubious, particularly the flight insurance policies. (For more on this, see nytimes.com/tierneylab.) 
 A magical belief in insurance sounds crazy because at a rational level we realize that our decision to forgo an insurance policy is not going to affect pilots or mechanics. But Dr. Risen and Dr. Gilovich say that there's a logical explanation for this superstition: Because calamities are so vivid and easily brought to mind, we tend to overestimate their probability when we intuitively judge what will happen if we tempt fate. 
 So when we think about passing up flight insurance, we conjure up disaster just as easily as ancient Greeks imagined a thunderbolt from Olympus, and we too figure we can avert it through the equivalent of a bull sacrifice. Intuitively, we haven't made great strides since Homer's day. But at least our gods take credit cards. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIKTOR KOEN)(pg. F1)
 (pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); MAMMALS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAVEL INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CLASSICS (76%); LIFE INSURANCE (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); METEOROLOGY (66%); LOTTERIES (63%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) NEPAL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



154 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Calling on Tourists to Come for New York City, but Stay for the State

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
NEW YORK STATE is asking tourists to fall in all over again.
 What may be the best-known campaign in tourism marketing -- named after its theme, ''I love New York'' -- is being updated to reflect everything from the new media choices consumers are making to higher prices for gasoline and other travel expenses.
 At a news conference on Tuesday in Midtown Manhattan, Gov. David A. Paterson and officials of the state Department of Economic Development are scheduled to introduce the revised campaign. The ads are the first work from the tourism campaign's new agency, the New York office of Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe, which was hired in May 2007.
 The familiar slogan is back, and so is the instantly recognizable logo (''I NY''). But there are significant shifts in what the ads will say as well as where they will appear. 
 One big change will be to step up the promotion of New York State, not just New York City, as a vacation destination. The twist comes in using the powerful appeal of the city to woo visitors to other locales, which is encapsulated in the phrase ''The state with the heart of the city.''
 For instance, an ad for New York vineyards asserts that the wine ''has to be just as good as what the city offers.'' And an ad for sights like waterfalls, parks and beaches asserts that they, too, give tourists ''a reason to crane their necks.''
 So ''go ahead and stare,'' as the headline puts it. ''We're used to it.''
 Another difference from previous campaigns will be to play up the idea that New York State is perfect for the shorter trips that are likely for tourists because of rising travel costs. 
 For example, a state vacation book that ran almost 200 pages is being replaced with a 40-page ''Getaway Guide,'' featuring journeys of three or four days. 
 To underline the emphasis on proximity, the ads will be concentrated in nearby Northeastern states and Canadian provinces. 
 New York State joins a lengthening list of destination advertisers, including Canada, Massachusetts and Virginia, that are acknowledging a travel market where gas costs $3.50 a gallon or more.
 ''People drive less, but they don't stop driving,'' said Thomas Ranese, chief marketing officer at the New York office of the Empire State Development Corporation. He estimated that more than 80 million people live within a three- to five-hour drive of New York State.
 Another major change for the campaign is a much greater reliance on the Internet. There will be banner ads and search engine marketing in addition to new content on the Web site (iloveny.com) like video clips and brochures that can be customized.
 Other plans include a contest with partners like the IFC cable network, which will ask consumers to create ''I love New York'' commercials that will run online.
 About half the estimated $17 million budget for the campaign this year will be spent in online media, Mr. Ranese said. Last year, the first time the campaign used online media, the Web accounted for a negligible amount out of the total 2007 budget of $16 million.
 ''In marketing today, you're trying to find the market of one,'' Mr. Ranese said. ''The 'I love New York' brand did that 30 years ago, when the 'I' was very strong.''
 ''That was ahead of its time for tourism marketing,'' he added, ''and we're trying to come back to that leadership position.''
 Mr. Ranese also said that when the campaign was created, in 1977, New York City and New York State confronted considerable financial challenges. (A certain New York Yankee, Yogi Berra, might say that it's deja vu all over again.)
 The ads were an attempt to stimulate the tourism industry, which now accounts for more than 740,000 jobs in the state, Mr. Ranese said, along with $47 billion a year in direct spending (hotels, restaurants) and indirect spending (businesses that support the others). 
 ''Tourism is a big business in New York,'' he added, ''and frankly, because of current economic conditions, it's something that can drive short-term revenue.''
 In other words, money invested in tourism ads may generate faster returns than money spent in efforts like luring new businesses to the state.
 The state and Saatchi & Saatchi are signing partners for the campaign, which in addition to IFC will include American Express, Amtrak, Enterprise Rent-A-Car, JetBlue, Orbitz, Travelocity, the Tribeca Film Festival and Virgin Atlantic.
 Saatchi & Saatchi took over the campaign last May from the Albany office of Eric Mower & Associates, which had handled the assignment since December 2003. Mower was the first upstate agency to create ads for the campaign, which has had 11 agencies since the first singing commercials proclaimed ''I love New York'' 31 years ago.
 ''We wanted to set ourselves apart from other tourism advertising,'' said Alison Gragnano, creative director at Saatchi & Saatchi, adding: ''There are a lot of beautiful pictures of serene mountains and lakes. How do you make your mountains and lakes different?''
 The answer, she said, is to suggest that ''we have the pulsating heart and soul of New York City in everything we do,'' whether it is putting on a county fair, growing grapes or assuring visitors that a certain upstate sight will remain, as the saying goes, yours till Niagara falls.
 ''Even when we're not working on Wall Street, there's a passion here, a force,'' Ms. Gragnano said of the state and its residents. Ms. Gragnano said she agreed with the decision by the state officials to focus the campaign on nearby consumers.
 ''We know people are going to take closer holidays this summer,'' she said, adding that it would be beneficial ''if we could get everyone in New York City to take a weekend in New York State.''
 She and Mr. Ranese identified another target of the campaign: the foreign tourists who visit New York City and do not venture outside the five boroughs.
 A brand identity consultant gave the new tack for the campaign a generally positive review.
 ''They'll have to work hard to move the footprint beyond Broadway and Times Square,'' said Allen Adamson, managing director for the New York office of Landor Associates, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of the WPP Group.
 ''People are in fact re-evaluating their vacation plans'' because of the economy and gas prices, Mr. Adamson said, so visitors who are ''driving down from Boston or Montreal or driving over from Pittsburgh'' could be enticed to sample other attractions.
 But the campaign ''will have to focus pretty hard on the non-New York City assets'' of the state to accomplish that, he added.
 The approach has at least a seasonal appeal, Mr. Adamson said: ''New York City is the last place you want to be in August. They could pull you in with the message that you can also hang out at a quiet lake in the Adirondacks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A campaign to encourage tourists to visit sites in New York State outside of New York City will be unveiled on Tuesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); TOURISM (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); WEB SITES (61%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (61%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (57%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



155 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Not Recession-Proof After All

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
For decades, this gambling center seemed nearly immune to the economic swings of the rest of the country. But these days, the city built on excess is seeing a troubling sign: moderation.
 Gambling revenue and hotel occupancy are down. Resorts are slashing room rates and offering coupons or free nights. Casino operators are firing hundreds of workers, and their stock prices have plummeted since October. Credit is drying up for hotel and condominium projects planned before the slowdown arrived.
 Even the people still coming to Las Vegas are spending less. Julia Lee, 27, of Los Angeles said she normally brings $10,000 on her trips here to play blackjack. As Ms. Lee picked up show tickets the other night, she said she had brought less than half that on this trip. ''My parents are in real estate, and we're worried,'' she said.
 So are this city's hoteliers, retailers, wedding chapel operators and anyone else who depends on the extravagance of gamblers and tourists. The spending declines are relatively modest, a few percentage points here and there. But Las Vegas has a huge inventory of new casinos and hotels due for completion in the next few years, and a long national recession could send the city reeling. 
 The Las Vegas outlook would be far worse if not for foreign visitors. They are taking advantage of the low dollar to savor the fare of celebrity chefs like Alex Stratta and to snap up goods that might cost twice as much in Europe.
 To manage the slowdown, Las Vegas is revving up an overseas marketing campaign, and in the United States, it is pitching spontaneous Vegas escapes. ''Do it without thinking!'' says one television spot.
 But representing only 13 percent of visitors, foreigners can take up only so much slack. Deutsche Bank recently started foreclosure on a $760 million construction loan for the Cosmopolitan Resort and Casino, a partly built project in the heart of the Las Vegas Strip. 
 Crown Las Vegas, a bullet-shaped hotel and casino resort that was supposed to become the tallest building in the city, was scrapped a few weeks ago for lack of financing.
 One of the most prominent Las Vegas casino operators, Tropicana Entertainment, said Monday it would seek bankruptcy protection. The company, beset by financial difficulties, made cutbacks at a casino in Atlantic City that prompted New Jersey regulators to strip it of its license there; that set off a cascade of fresh financial problems.
 Other multibillion-dollar Las Vegas projects are facing delays or have been put up for sale because of tightening credit and changing Wall Street perceptions about the city. The city's resort properties already have 130,000 rooms, and Wall Street -- which financed much of the recent boom -- is worried that Las Vegas cannot absorb the 40,000 more that are on the drawing board or under construction.
 ''In this market, it is not good business to be confident,'' said Jan L. Jones, a senior vice president at Harrah's Entertainment and a former Las Vegas mayor. ''I've never seen an economy like this nationally. Nobody knows how deep what nobody wants to call a recession will go.''
 Historically, Las Vegas has been resistant to recessions, entering them later and exiting them sooner than the country at large. Gamblers, particularly high rollers, tend to play no matter which way the economic winds are blowing.
 But executives here worry this recession could be different from the last two -- in 1990-1 and 2001 -- when consumer spending was propped up by easy credit. Now credit is drying up. And high gas and food prices, declining home values and rising unemployment are keeping many Americans closer to home.
 More important, over the last two decades Las Vegas has shifted from a destination dominated by gambling to one with more appeal to middle-class shoppers, diners, golfers and others who can afford brief splurges. Whereas gambling represented 58 percent of revenue for Las Vegas Strip resorts in 1990, it represented only 41 percent of revenue in 2007, according to a Deutsche Bank report.
 As gambling was legalized in more parts of the country in recent years, Las Vegas was forced to expand its own offerings to keep growing. It worked, but it made the city more susceptible to recessionary declines in disposable income. 
 ''Las Vegas is now as vulnerable as other communities,'' said J. Terrence Lanni, chairman of the board of MGM Mirage.
 However, Mr. Lanni said he saw a silver lining. He predicted that a large percentage of the 40,000 new rooms planned by 2012 would be put off, giving Las Vegas time to develop airport and other facilities to expand more smoothly. 
 To be sure, Las Vegas today looks no more like a poverty zone than it does a religious camp. Caesars Palace is preparing for a billion-dollar makeover, including a 23-story tower and three new swimming pools. In fact, much of the Strip looks like a giant construction site, with crane lights competing with casino neon. MGM Mirage's $8 billion CityCenter project alone takes up 76 acres.
 But other numbers tell a darker story. Hotel occupancy was down for January and February, the most recent figures, by 1.5 percent, despite average daily room rates 3.8 percent below the year before. Gambling revenue in the Las Vegas metropolitan area for the same period was down about 4 percent. 
 ''It's accelerating to the downside,'' said Bill Lerner, a senior gambling analyst at Deutsche Bank who lives in Las Vegas. ''Las Vegas's economy is more reflective of the general economy than ever.'' 
 Las Vegas visitors said in recent interviews that they were spending less than in the past.
 Rita Keene, a retired insurance risk manager from Collinsville, Ill., said she has been coming to Las Vegas several times a year since 1978 and had never set gambling limits. This year she is betting no more than $300 a day at the slot machines, and she is not going to shows.
 ''We have investments, and you know what the stock market has been doing,'' she said while putting quarters in a slot machine at the Orleans casino. ''My husband and I have even talked about this maybe being our last time.''
 Even as Americans cut back, foreigners are helping to prop up the Las Vegas economy. The Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority reports that the average foreign visitor spent $1,200 for purposes other than gambling in 2007, up from $1,159 in 2006. That compares with average spending of $701 for all visitors in 2007, down from $750 the year before.
 Gil Colon, sales manager at the Villa Reale antique and furnishings shop, said his business was off a bit, and would be down more except for revenue from foreigners, whose purchases have jumped from 30 percent of his sales two years ago to 50 percent today.
 Having just arrived with his family in Las Vegas, Murat Sahsuvar, a Turkish hotelier, came into the store looking for 24 crystal chandeliers for a hotel he is building in Istanbul. Mr. Sahsuvar said he planned to buy Vacheron Constantin and Patek Philippe watches for himself and his wife, dine at the best Italian restaurant in town and have a little fun at the poker table at the Bellagio.
 ''We're going to save lots of money on the watches, at least 5,000 euros,'' he said. That sum, equal to nearly $8,000 because the dollar has fallen so much against the euro, ''will take care of my hotel, my traveling and my food while in Las Vegas.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ourists stroll past the CityCenter project in Las Vegas. The MGM Mirage development is expected to cover 76 acres. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.C1)
A penny slot machine at the Paris Las Vegas casino. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Construction cranes looming over projects in Las Vegas. Some developments are facing delays because of credit problems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C4) CHART: THE BEGINNING OF A DOWNTURN: After a few years of steady growth, two crucial economic indicators in Las Vegas have declined in recent months: revenue from gambling and the rate visitors pay for rooms. (Source: Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority) A breakdown in yearly revenues from gambling and hotel rooms in Las Vegas, Nevada. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); GAMING (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); RESORTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); CARD GAMES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); RETAILERS (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); CELEBRITIES (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); TROPICANA CASINOS & RESORTS INC (52%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



156 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Family Science Project Yields Surprising Data About a Siberian Lake

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
In 1945, when Stalin ruled the Soviet Union, Mikhail M. Kozhov began keeping track of what was happening under the surface of Lake Baikal, the ancient Siberian lake that is the deepest and largest body of fresh water on earth.
 Every week to 10 days, by boat in summer and over the ice in winter, he crossed the lake to a spot about a mile and a half from Bolshie Koty, a small village in the piney woods on Baikal's northwest shore. There, Dr. Kozhov, a professor at Irkutsk State University, would record water temperature and clarity and track the plant and animal plankton species as deep as 2,400 feet. 
 Soon his daughter Olga M. Kozhova began assisting him and, eventually her daughter, Lyubov Izmesteva, joined the project. They kept at it over the years, producing an extraordinary record of the lake and its health. 
 Now Dr. Izmesteva and scientists in the United States have analyzed the data and concluded, to their surprise, that the water in Lake Baikal is rapidly warming. As a result, its highly unusual food web is reorganizing, as warmer water species of plankton become more prevalent. These shifts at the bottom of the food web could have important implications for all of the creatures that live in the lake, they say.
 Although Dr. Kozhov is famous among scientists who study lakes -- his 1961 book ''Lake Baikal and Its Life'' is considered a classic -- the new report is ''the international debut of the Kozhov family's legacy of research,'' Stephanie E. Hampton of the National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis at the University of California, Santa Barbara, said in an e-mail message. 
 She led the work along with Dr. Izmesteva who, like her mother and grandfather before her, is a professor at the university and a researcher at the biological field station it established in Bolshie Koty in 1918. Their findings are being reported this month in the journal Global Change Biology.
 Like others who have seen the data, Dr. Hampton said in an interview that she was in awe of the people who had collected it. ''Even in the spring, summer and fall, this is tough,'' she said. ''In the winter to go out a mile and a half on the ice and break through it to take water samples, in a year-round effort for 60 years, is pretty amazing to me. Every time I think about it I am humbled.'' 
 Marianne V. Moore, an ecologist at Wellesley College and another researcher on the project, said she learned about the data in 2001 when she took students in her class, ''Baikal and the Soul of Siberia,'' to the lake. Dr. Izmesteva spoke to the group and showed a few slides, which the translator said had been drawn from a 60-year record. ''I thought he had made a mistake,'' Dr. Moore recalled. ''So I basically ignored it.'' 
 When she returned with another class two years later and another scientist mentioned the data, ''my jaw dropped to the floor,'' she said. ''I realized this is just extraordinary.'' 
 She got in touch with Dr. Hamilton, who is an expert in the analysis of complex ecological field data, particularly the use of statistical techniques to discern real trends in the messy ups and downs of nature. The center in Santa Barbara financed the collaboration. 
 Baikal is a place of unusual biodiversity, with many species found nowhere else. Among them are giant shrimp, bright green sponges that grow in shallow water forests and the Baikal seal, the world's only exclusively freshwater seal. In 1996, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, or Unesco, designated the lake a World Heritage Site. 
 Although it is known that warming is more intense at high latitudes, as in the Baikal area, and that water is warming in other major lakes, including Lake Tahoe in Nevada and Lake Tanganyika in central Africa, many scientists had thought that Lake Baikal's enormous volume and unusual water circulation patterns would buffer the effects of global warming. 
 Instead, the researchers report, surface waters in Lake Baikal are warming quickly, on average by about 0.4 degrees Fahrenheit every decade. At a depth of about 75 feet, the increase is about 0.2 degrees per decade, they say, enough to jeopardize species ''unable to adapt evolutionarily or behaviorally.''
 Over the last 137 years, the researchers say, the ice-free season has lengthened by more than two weeks, primarily because ice forms later in the year. The database, including data on chlorophyll that the family started collecting in 1979, suggest that the ''growing season'' for plankton and algae has lengthened in the lake. Chlorophyll levels have tripled since measurement began, the researchers said.
 Ordinarily, the researchers said in their report, this increased plant growth would be accompanied by decreases in water clarity, but that is not what the data show at Lake Baikal. This finding, they said, ''highlights the importance of establishing monitoring for 'early warming' before a need for monitoring may be perceived visually.'' 
 Now, Dr. Hampton said, she and other researchers are examining how the Kozhov family's data fit with records of ecological phenomena elsewhere. So far, she said, ''the data correlate well.''
 ''You could not make up something like this.'' she added.
 Dr. Moore said Dr. Kozhov died in 1968 and his daughter Olga died in 2000. The family persisted in their work through years of political, economic and social turmoil, especially the collapse of the Soviet Union after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 when, Dr. Moore said, ''funds for the program just dried up.'' 
 Today, she said, Dr. Izmesteva and her colleagues pay for their work in part with fees they earn by consulting or doing environmental impact assessments. 
 ''They sustain the program any way they can,'' Dr. Moore said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LEGACY: Lyubov Izmesteva with her grandfather, Mikhail M. Kozhov, who kept a record of Lake Baikal, home to species like the golomyanka, top center, and the freshwater water flea. The Baikal seal, above, and a view from a research vessel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY L.R. IZMESTEVA (TOP LEFT)
VISUAL UNLIMITED (TOP RIGHT)
STEPHANIE HAMPTON (ABOVE RIGHT)
 VADIM KANTOR/GREENPEACE (LEFT)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); BIOLOGY (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



157 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CAMDEN JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: In a Faded City, Plans to Build a Hotel Build Hope

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J. 

 BODY:
The old Plaza Hotel downtown is a tomb, sealed shut for more than 20 years now, its windows shattered and its green marquee worn and stripped of letters.
 Trapped inside the hotel are the memories of a once-thriving industrial town, where business people and job seekers and even the occasional entertainer came to visit and dine. Since it closed in 1985, the hotel, battered by the city's decline, seemed to deliver a warning: Camden was not a place to linger after dark, not a place one stayed. But a group of developers is seeking the planning board's approval this week for a 140-room Hilton Garden Inn on Camden's waterfront, what would be the first new hotel built here in about 70 years. 
 ''We want to get in at a time when there are things to be done here,'' said Vijnan Chandra, of PRA Development and Management, the Philadelphia-based company that would build the Hilton. ''We don't paint Camden with a broad brush. This signals to the public that the city is open for business.'' 
 For a city struggling to revitalize, a hotel is a signature, a symbol. It suggests there is a critical mass of tourists -- in Camden's case, lured by a new aquarium and a minor-league baseball team -- and supporters of the new hotel say that Camden, offering tax breaks and cheap rents, has started to lure businesses again, too, and that there are not enough hotel rooms in Philadelphia, a 10-minute drive over the river, to house the new visitors.
 ''A hotel can start to leverage quite a bit,'' said William H. Hudnut III, a senior resident fellow at the Urban Land Institute, an education and research group in Washington, D.C. ''It brings people, and it brings rooftops -- restaurants, bars and eateries. One hotel won't do the trick, but it's certainly a positive piece in the jigsaw.''
 In the years since the Plaza closed, the business that thrived here was the drug trade, and the superlatives thrown at Camden usually concerned its status as one of the nation's poorest or most dangerous cities. Thousands of residents have left the city, leaving
 behind neighborhoods of boarded-up row houses and empty lots. For those people who have remained, there are few comforts: no supermarkets or movie theaters, and, for a generation, no hotel rooms.
 Camden was different place in the 1930s and 1940s, when employers like Campbell Soup, RCA Victor and New York Shipbuilding Corporation made the city, positioned strategically on the Delaware River, a center of industry. Several hotels operated here over the years, including the Walt Whitman Hotel, where Red Skelton is said to have requested a room on the second floor, so he could lower his dog, rather than walk it, according to Paul W. Schopp, a local historian.
 The hotels were not just way stations for businessmen and itinerant salespeople, Mr. Schopp said; the region was considered a ''mecca for the jazz supper clubs,'' and entertainers would stop in Camden as well.
 The Plaza was a business hotel, where professionals who worked on Cooper Street would gather for lunch. The Walt Whitman was the scene of the city's fancier soirees, where M. Allan Vogelson, a retired judge, saw several friends get married.
 ''Our high school fraternity had its annual sweetheart ball there,'' recalled Judge Vogelson, who grew up in Camden. ''The Walt Whitman brings back wonderful memories. It was a different time for Camden.'' 
 By the time the Rev. Michael Doyle arrived in Camden in the late 1960s, middle-class residents had begun fleeing the city, an exodus that accelerated after race riots in 1971. He found that the city's shoreline -- its great treasure -- was ''gobbled up by crude industry,'' Father Doyle said.
 ''I remember walking through abandoned factories and sumac trees to get to that river,'' he said.
 Efforts to revive Camden have focused on that waterfront, and in the last two decades, large swaths of the riverfront property under the Benjamin Franklin Bridge have been transformed, with new office buildings, an aquarium, a concert hall and upscale apartments. About nine months ago, a developer was found for the hotel, according to Thomas P. Corcoran, the president of Cooper's Ferry Development Association, the master developer of the waterfront. 
 The five-story hotel, with an indoor pool, would cater to several different kinds of travelers, Mr. Corcoran said, including business people and visitors to Campbell Soup, Cooper University Hospital and Rutgers University's satellite campus here. The developers also hope to lure families visiting the waterfront's entertainment attractions, as well as visitors to a new convention center in Philadelphia, where hotel rooms can cost far more than the Hilton's planned rate of $125 per night. Mr. Corcoran said that rock stars playing the concert hall, the Susquehanna Bank Center, usually stay at the Four Seasons in Philadelphia, but their road crews could stay at the proposed Hilton.
 Several hurdles remain, he said, including gaining approval from the local planning board and obtaining large bank loans in a weakening economy.
 Talk of the new hotel could revive the debate about the revitalization process here. Community activists have complained that Camden's beleaguered neighborhoods have garnered far less attention from developers than the waterfront, and they worry that the riverfront is becoming an enclave -- an annex to Philadelphia -- rather than part of Camden. 
 But Mr. Corcoran said that the waterfront plan was designed to be an extension of Camden's downtown, and not a ''gated community.'' Projects like the hotel, he added, also promised to bring the city badly needed tax revenues.
 Father Doyle is among those working to restore Camden's neighborhoods, and last month an organization affiliated with his church, Sacred Heart, broke ground on a new community theater. That new building gained far less attention than the plans for the new hotel, but Father Doyle and several people involved in the project say that it is no less important, and will be the first theater for live performances to be built in the city in decades. 
 None of that diminished the pastor's enthusiasm for the new Hilton. ''It's a long time since I walked through that sumac,'' he said. ''I want to go in that hotel, hold a glass of wine and look across that river.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Plaza Hotel in busier times and now, above. When it closed in 1985, it was the last hotel in Camden, N.J. But in the 1930s and '40s, it housed business travelers and popular entertainers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PAUL W. SCHOPP COLLECTION (BELOW)) (pg.B1) DRAWING: A rendering of a Hilton hotel that is being planned for Camden, where an aquarium and a baseball team already lure visitors. (DRAWING BY PRA DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LODGING CONSTRUCTION (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); BASEBALL (70%); SHIPBUILDING (69%); APPROVALS (55%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



158 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: In Dublin, Seeing Irish Dance of a Different Sort

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

DATELINE: DUBLIN 

 BODY:
As the Dublin Dance Festival came to an end last weekend after 16 days packed with local and international work, two audience members weighed in. ''It's O.K., this stuff -- different,'' one said, after a performance featuring Irish choreographers.
 The other said, ''Who knew?''
 For more than a decade the conjunction of the words ''dance'' and ''Ireland'' has meant only one thing to the world: ''Riverdance,'' with its foot-drumming, regimented cast of thousands. But while there is plenty of other dance in Ireland, much of it is little known internationally and ill supported by local audiences, who have had relatively infrequent exposure to touring companies and varying aesthetics.
 Founded in 2002 (as the biennial International Dance Festival Ireland), the Dublin Dance Festival has, from the outset, presented prestigious international companies and plenty of local work. But the event hasn't registered strongly on the dance world. This is something that Irish culture mavens hope will change with the appointment of Laurie Uprichard, the well-regarded former executive director of Danspace in New York City, as its artistic director. 
 The 2008 edition, which opened on April 17 with the Forsythe Company, and ended on Saturday with Tere O'Connor's ''Rammed Earth,'' is the first year of the newly named and newly annual festival. It's also the first indication of what Ms. Uprichard might do with the festival after a 15-year tenure at Danspace, where she was much beloved for her unwavering support of experimental work and her presentation of little-known European groups. 
 What her first program suggests is that she is likely to avoid the formulaic presentation of big European names that many dance festivals on the continent espouse. This year the festival presented 24 artists or companies from 14 countries, with a sprinkling of famous troupes (the Forsythe Company, Ballet Preljocaj), but also many other lesser-known artists (Betontac from Slovenia, Kitt Johnson from Denmark, Reykjavik Dance from Iceland). Many of the participants have appeared at Danspace, including the New Yorkers Sarah Skaggs and Risa Jaroslow, but Ms. Uprichard has obviously been careful to also place a fair amount of emphasis on local artists. In addition to two showcases for Irish choreographers were Jenny Roche's program of solos (by John Jasperse, Jodi Melnick and Liz Roche), and Colin Dunne's ''Out of Time,'' a contemporary take on traditional Irish dance that drew glowing reports.
 ''One of the missions of the festival is to nurture Irish work,'' Ms. Uprichard said. ''I took that very seriously. The one thing I can do for artists here is make introductions. We had 21 international presenters here this year. I'm very conscious of not having only Americans.''
 Ms. Uprichard, a tall, willowy woman with a low-key manner, accepted the job a year ago and moved to Dublin in July. She is of Irish descent and said that she had always been curious about dance in Ireland. ''I wanted to live in Europe,'' she said over breakfast at the Avoca Cafe, in the busy center of town here. ''I had been at Danspace for 15 years, and the problems at a place like that are like the problems of the church: nothing changes. When this came up, it just seemed right.''
 Until Ms. Uprichard took the job, the festival had been directed by its Irish founder, Catherine Nunes, who had worked at Dance Umbrella in London, and by its general manager, Marina Rafter. Ms. Nunes began to work on creating the festival in 1997, at a time when a few small Irish dance groups existed but remained largely isolated from the international dance community.
 That had been the case for almost a decade, said John Scott, who founded the Irish Modern Dance Theater in 1991. ''In 1989 the Irish Arts Council cut the funding of the Irish National Ballet, Dublin City Ballet and the Dublin Contemporary Dance Theater, and most good dancers emigrated to train or work abroad,'' he said.
 Mr. Scott, who has been an advocate for international collaboration, stayed in Dublin, and together with a few others started the annual ''New Music/New Dance.'' Out of that emerged several now-established companies: Mr. Scott's own, Dance Theater of Ireland and Coisceim Dance Theater, among others. But a continued lack of financing and infrequent performances meant that dance in Ireland remained underdeveloped throughout the '90s, a strange situation given Dublin's status as the 1991 European cultural capital, and the country's economic boom.
 Perhaps it was for these reasons that the Irish Arts Council provided funds for a new dance festival. But it was also, Mr. Scott said, because of the sheer persistence of Ms. Nunes, who compiled a report on the state of dance in the country and formed a lobbying group of choreographers and cultural figures. And a change in the Arts Council's approach to dance does seem to have come about, evident in the new Dance House, a gleaming, light-filled building that provides inexpensive or free working space to choreographers that is the site for the ''Re-Presenting Ireland'' series.
 ''The festival has made a huge difference to the dance climate here, and so has this building,'' said Ms. Roche, one of the participating Irish choreographers. ''We have a huge theater and literary tradition in Ireland, and the spoken word has always ruled the roost. It's how people understand a theatrical experience; abstract movement is simply not part of that. The body is not celebrated in Irish culture. There is a sensuality and expressivity in a full physicality that isn't really acceptable here. To see Forsythe or Mark Morris at the Abbey Theater is important for that reason.''
 Despite a briefer-than-usual planning period, Ms. Uprichard said that, with help, she was able to program this festival as she wished, and that it already serves as a model of her intentions. (Her budget, around 67 percent of which is provided by the Arts Council, is fairly modest by European festival standards; about $1,067,000 this year, a slight increase from $999,000 in 2006.) 
 And Ms. Uprichard already has plans for next year. She said that she would like to commission new work and have ''something of a theme'' for the festival. And where many might be happy to move from an American cultural climate, in which the state provides almost no money to the arts, to a quite different situation in Europe, she has ambitions of building philanthropic support. (Rolex was a sponsor this year.)
 Ah, raising money. Ms. Uprichard may have left New York, but its imperatives clearly haven't left her.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Kitt Johnson's ''Rankefod''
above, Ballet Preljocaj's ''Empty Moves, I and II''
at left, Laurie Uprichard, the festival's artistic director.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J C CARBONNE)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ROCHE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BALLET (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) IRELAND (95%); ICELAND (87%); UNITED STATES (70%); SLOVENIA (70%); DENMARK (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



159 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEMO PAD; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 446 words

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
NEW SINGAPORE SERVICE Singapore Airlines is starting a new all-business-class service between Newark and Singapore on May 15, using Airbus A340-500 ultra-long-haul airliners configured with 100 flat-bed business-class seats. James Boyd, a Singapore Airlines spokesman, said demand for all-business-class service on the 18 1/2-hour nonstop flight to Singapore has been ''very strong.'' Singapore Airlines also plans to begin all-business-class service between Los Angeles and Singapore in September, making it the first airline to offer this service across the Pacific, he said. The airline is converting cabins on five of its A340-500s -- which it normally flies configured with 181 seats in two classes -- for use in the new service. 
 SILVERJET SEEKS MONEY The struggling all-business-class airline Silverjet, which flies between Newark and London Luton Airport, said that Viceroy Holdings, a development fund in the United Arab Emirates, had acquired a 28 percent stake in the airline for $25 million. Silverjet said it was seeking additional new investment for its plan to expand in the Middle East, the Far East and Africa. Last week, Silverjet said that its ''working capital had deteriorated'' because of high oil prices and the credit crisis.
 SHIFT TO INTERNATIONAL ROUTES International traffic on airlines based in the United States grew 10 percent in March as those carriers shifted more capacity from domestic routes, and the relative strength of the euro increased traffic from Europe, the International Air Transport Association said. Globally, international traffic on all airlines grew 5.8 percent in March as compared with March 2007. But growth rates have been slowing all this year, the airline trade group said.
 MORE SUMMER TRAVEL ABROAD Despite the slowing economy, an estimated 25.1 million Americans will travel internationally this summer, a 2.6 percent increase over last summer, AAA said. The automobile and travel company, in a forecast conducted by Global Insight, said the countries with the biggest percentage growth in visitors from the United States will be China, India, France, Ireland and Switzerland. Those with declining numbers of visitors will be the Bahamas, Brazil, Puerto Rico and Canada, AAA said.
 ET CETERA Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport plans to open its new 26-gate $431 million North Terminal in September to replace the older Smith and Berry terminal complex ... An outbreak of measles has been reported in four states ''linked to travelers who have acquired the disease abroad,'' says International SOS, a medical assistance company. The states are Arizona, New York, Michigan and Wisconsin. JOE SHARKEY 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (86%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); ACQUISITIONS (67%); CREDIT CRISIS (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (63%); TRAVEL AGENTS (61%); MEASLES (60%); WORKING CAPITAL (51%)

COMPANY: SILVERJET PLC (90%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (90%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: C6L (SGX) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) SINGAPORE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (77%); BAHAMAS (76%); INDIA (73%); FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



160 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: A Mild Retreat as Oil Surges to a Record

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street pulled back on Monday after Microsoft decided to withdraw its bid for Yahoo and oil prices rose to a record.
 Microsoft dropped its $47.5 billion bid to buy Yahoo late on Saturday after the two companies could not agree on a sale price. The failed deal came as a disappointment to Wall Street, because merger activity tells the broader market that corporate America is optimistic about the future.
 Crude oil futures for June delivery surged to a trading high of $120.36 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange before pulling back to settle up $3.65, at a record $119.97. The jump followed worries over supply disruptions in areas like Nigeria, Iran and Iraq. 
 Concerns about the impact of energy prices slipped to the background on Wall Street in recent weeks, but when the Federal Reserve Board cut rates by a quarter-point last Wednesday, it reminded Wall Street that inflation remained a priority, along with the uncertain economy.
 There is a growing sense on Wall Street that the Fed will pause its rate cuts, and that the probability of that happening will increase if inflation accelerates. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 88.66, or 0.68 percent, to 12,969.54.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.41, or 0.45 percent, to 1,407.49, while the Nasdaq composite index fell 12.87, or 0.52 percent, to 2,464.12.
 John Merrill, chief investment officer at Tanglewood Capital Management in Houston, said that despite investors' concerns about the economy, Wall Street had logged a sizable rebound since its March lows. 
 Last week, the Dow rose 1.29 percent, while the S.& P. 500 advanced 1.15 percent.
 ''Our idea is that we're in a long, soft patch,'' Mr. Merrill said. ''The economic problems we have with home building and the overleveraged consumer and the overleveraged banking system -- they are problems that are going to be with us for a while.''
 Despite their concerns about inflation, investors briefly took some encouragement from a closely watched reading on the American service sector. The Institute for Supply Management said its April index of nonmanufacturing activity rose to 52, from 49.6 in March. A reading above 50 signals economic expansion.
 But the rise in oil prices still weighed on a number of sectors, including retailers whose livelihood depends on consumers and airlines whose profits are hurt by expensive fuel. Macy's fell $1.21, or 4.6 percent, to $25.09, while J. C. Penney fell $1.86, or 4.1 percent, to $43.32.
 Delta Air Lines fell 39 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $8.11, and Continental Airlines declined $1.01, or 5.4 percent, to $17.78.
 Meanwhile, Yahoo fell $4.30, or 15 percent, to $24.37 after Microsoft's decision to walk away. Shares of Microsoft slipped 16 cents to $29.08.
 Countrywide Financial fell 62 cents, or 10.4 percent, to $5.36 after a Wall Street analyst said Bank of America should abandon its proposed takeover of the company, a mortgage lender. Another analyst suggested the deal would probably be renegotiated for a lower price.
 Bank of America fell 82 cents, to $38.97.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 3/32, to 97 1/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.87 percent, from 3.86 percent.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); RETAILERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (51%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); UAL (NYSE) (51%); DAL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



161 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indian Telecom Seeking Deal in South Africa

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

 BODY:
Bharti Airtel, India's largest telecommunications company, said Monday that it was in discussions with the MTN Group of Johannesburg. MTN, which operates cellphone systems in Africa and the Middle East, could be worth more than $40 billion in its entirety, according to bankers and analysts. 
 Bharti's overture is just the latest international foray by an Indian company. Primed by domestic economic growth that has exceeded 8 percent in recent years, some of the country's largest companies have been looking to grow overseas, just as economies in the United States and Europe slow. 
 In March, the Tata Group's auto division sealed a long-awaited deal for Jaguar and Land Rover for $2.3 billion, and last week Essar Steel Holdings reached agreement to buy a West Virginia steel company, Esmark. 
 India's commerce and industry minister, Kamal Nath, commented in a telephone interview from New York on Monday: ''We support Indian acquisitions of companies, and we certainly support this. We are happy that India is not merely looking for foreign direct investments; we are investors ourselves.'' 
 In a statement Monday evening, Bharti Airtel said that it had ''entered into an exploratory discussion with MTN'' and that discussions were at an early stage and might not lead to a deal. MTN issued a similar statement and urged shareholders to ''exercise caution'' when trading the companies' shares until further clarification was made.
 At any rate, Bharti Airtel, a publicly traded unit of the conglomerate Bharti Enterprises, is unlikely to strike a deal that would lead to the acquisition of all of MTN, analysts say. Bharti also faces stiff competition from other telecommunications operators as it tries to hammer out a tie-in of some sort or buy a minority stake. 
 MTN, with 68.2 million subscribers at the end of the first quarter, is one of the largest telecommunications companies in the fast-growing African and Middle Eastern markets. 
 ''MTN is drawing interest'' from potential partners, said William Hahn, a telecommunications analyst with the research firm Gartner. But South African regulators are unlikely to allow MTN to team up with a local South African competitor, he said, so any investment will have to come from a ''powerhouse'' in the United States, Europe, or India. 
 South African regulators are also unlikely to allow a foreign company to control MTN, he indicated.
 Any deal between Bharti Airtel and MTN would bring together two rapidly expanding giants of roughly equal size. 
 Bharti had 64 million subscribers at the end of the first quarter, a 12 percent increase from the quarter before, and a 65 percent leap from last year. MTN's subscribers increased 11 percent in the first quarter. The largest number of its subscribers are in Nigeria, South Africa and Iran, but it has operations in more than 20 countries. 
 MTN's shares reached a record Monday on reports that Bharti Airtel was interested in a deal, closing at 15,000 South African rand ($1,980) on the Johannesburg exchange. 
 Until Monday's announcement, executives from Bharti Airtel had repeatedly denied reports appearing in recent days in The Economic Times of India and The Financial Times that they were discussing a deal with MTN. 
 While new foreign investment in Africa has been dominated in recent years by China, Indian companies and politicians are also trying to increase their presence there. In April, Indian officials played host to a trade meeting in New Delhi for African leaders. 
 African telecoms are attracting attention from global investors because of the relatively low numbers of fixed-line phones and the fast-growing number of mobile subscribers. 
 In addition to telecommunications, Bharti Enterprises has farming, retail and insurance businesses. The company has joined with Wal-Mart to bring the chain to India, and with the AXA Group of France to sell insurance policies to India's rapidly growing middle class. 
 Any deal with MTN would be Bharti Enterprises' most aggressive move to date outside India. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cellphone shopper examining the goods at an MTN store in Johannesburg. MTN is a leading Africa and Mideast provider. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NAASHON ZALK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ACQUISITIONS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%)

COMPANY: MTN GROUP LTD (95%); BHARTI AIRTEL LTD (92%); TATA GROUP (90%); BHARTI ENTERPRISES LTD (85%)

TICKER: MTN (JSE) (95%); BHARTIARTL (NSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (95%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (90%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); SIC4822 TELEGRAPH & OTHER MESSAGE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%) SOUTH AFRICA (96%); INDIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); AFRICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



162 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: A Challenge For the U.S.: Sun Rising On the East

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
THE POST-AMERICAN WORLD 
 By Fareed Zakaria 
 292 pages. W. W. Norton & Company. $25.95. 
 What a difference five years -- and one war -- make! 
 In a 2003 article in Newsweek, written on the eve of the invasion of Iraq, Fareed Zakaria -- a columnist for the magazine and the editor of its international edition -- wrote: ''It is now clear that the current era can really have only one name, the unipolar world -- an age with only one global power. America's position today is unprecedented.'' He went on to declare that ''American dominance is not simply military. The U.S. economy is as large as the next three -- Japan, Germany and Britain -- put together,'' adding that ''it is more dynamic economically, more youthful demographically and more flexible culturally than any other part of the world.'' What worries people around the world above all else, he wrote, ''is living in a world shaped and dominated by one country -- the United States.'' 
 In his new book, ''The Post-American World,'' Mr. Zakaria writes that America remains a politico-military superpower, but ''in every other dimension -- industrial, financial, educational, social, cultural -- the distribution of power is shifting, moving away from American dominance.'' With the rise of China, India and other emerging markets, with economic growth sweeping much of the planet, and the world becoming increasingly decentralized and interconnected, he contends, ''we are moving into a post-American world, one defined and directed from many places and by many people.''
 For that matter, Mr. Zakaria argues that we are now in the midst of the third great tectonic power shift to occur over the last 500 years: the first was the rise of the West, which produced ''modernity as we know it: science and technology, commerce and capitalism, the agricultural and industrial revolutions''; the second was the rise of the United States in the 20th century; and the third is what he calls ''the rise of the rest,'' with China and India ''becoming bigger players in their neighborhoods and beyond,'' Russia becoming more aggressive, and Europe acting with ''immense strength and purpose'' on matters of trade and economics.
 Many of this volume's more acute arguments echo those that have been made by other analysts and writers, most notably, the New York Times columnist Thomas L. Friedman on globalization, and Jimmy Carter's national security adviser, Zbigniew Brzezinski, on America's growing isolation in an increasingly adversarial world. But Mr. Zakaria uses his wide-ranging fluency in economics, foreign policy and cultural politics to give the lay reader a lucid picture of a globalized world (and America's role in it) that is changing at light speed, even as he provides a host of historical analogies to examine the possible fallout of these changes.
 The irony of the ''rise of the rest,'' Mr. Zakaria notes, is that it is largely a result of American ideas and actions: ''For 60 years, American politicians and diplomats have traveled around the world pushing countries to open their markets, free up their politics, and embrace trade and technology. We have urged peoples in distant lands to take up the challenge of competing in the global economy, freeing up their currencies, and developing new industries. We counseled them to be unafraid of change and learn the secrets of our success. And it worked: the natives have gotten good at capitalism.'' 
 But at the same time, he goes on, America is ''becoming suspicious of the very things we have long celebrated -- free markets, trade, immigration and technological change'': witness Democratic candidates' dissing of Nafta, Republican calls for tighter immigration control, and studies showing that American students are falling behind students from other developed countries in science and math. 
 While readers might take recent signs like recession at home, a falling dollar abroad and a huge trade deficit as suggesting that the American economy is in trouble, Mr. Zakaria asserts that the United States (unlike Britain, which was undone as a world power because of ''irreversible economic deterioration'') can maintain ''a vital, vibrant economy, at the forefront of the next revolutions in science, technology, and industry -- as long as it can embrace and adjust to the challenges confronting it.''
 As Mr. Zakaria sees it, the ''economic dysfunctions in America today'' are the product not of ''deep inefficiencies within the American economy,'' but of specific government policies -- which could be reformed ''quickly and relatively easily'' to put the country on a more stable footing. ''A set of sensible reforms could be enacted tomorrow,'' he says, ''to trim wasteful spending and subsidies, increase savings, expand training in science and technology, secure pensions, create a workable immigration process and achieve significant efficiencies in the use of energy'' -- if only the current political process weren't crippled by partisanship, special-interest agendas, a sensation-driven media, ideological attack groups and legislative gridlock. 
 As for the United States' role in a world that is rapidly shifting from unipolarity into a far messier and more dynamic system, Mr. Zakaria suggests that it should become a kind of ''global broker,'' forging close relationships with other major countries, while exchanging the peremptory, directive-issuing role of a superpower for ''consultation, cooperation, and even compromise'' -- in short, repudiating the sort of cowboy unilateralism favored by the current Bush administration and embracing a behind-the-scenes power derived from ''setting the agenda, defining the issues and mobilizing coalitions.''
 The central strategic challenge for American diplomacy in the years to come, Mr. Zakaria says, concerns China: how to deter its aggression and expansionism, while at the same time accommodating its legitimate growth. He suggests that in a world in which ''the United States is seen as an overbearing hegemon,'' China might well seek to position itself as ''the alternative to a hectoring and arrogant America,'' gradually expanding its economic ties and enlarging its sphere of influence. 
 ''How will America,'' he asks, ''cope with such a scenario -- a kind of cold war but this time with a vibrant market society, with the world's largest population, a nation that is not showcasing a hopeless model of state socialism or squandering its power in pointless military interventions? This is a new challenge for the United States, one it has not tackled before, and for which it is largely unprepared.''
 There are some curious gaps and questionable assertions in this book. While President Bush's controversial No Child Left Behind program has put increased emphasis on test-taking, and college applicants worry about their SAT scores in what Forbes magazine calls ''a test-crazed era,'' Mr. Zakaria writes: ''Other educational systems teach you to take tests; the American system teaches you to think,'' adding that ''American culture celebrates and reinforces problem solving, questioning authority, and thinking heretically.'' 
 He skims lightly over the critical role that the Iraq war played in shaping America's current problems on theworld stage (he himself supported the effort to oust Saddam Hussein and wrote in March of 2003 that the war ''will look better when it is over'' and weapons of mass destruction are found). And in sharp contrast to Qaeda experts like the former C.I.A. officer Michael Scheuer (who argue that the Iraq war has served as a recruitment tool for Osama bin Laden) and a new State Department report (which notes the growth of Qaeda affiliates in the Middle East, North Africa and Europe, and the growing ability of al Qaeda itself to plot attacks from Pakistan), Mr. Zakaria contends that ''over the last six years, support for bin Laden and his goals has fallen steadily throughout the Muslim world.''
 Such dubious assertions distract attention from the many more convincing arguments in this book and the volume's overall take on the United States' place in a rapidly changing global landscape -- a provocative and often shrewd take that opens a big picture window on the closing of the first American century and the advent of a new world in which ''the rest rise, and the West wanes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fareed Zakaria (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN DEITCH)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (57%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (76%)

TITLE: Post-American World, The (Book)>; Post-American World, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



163 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Google, From Stirrer to Spoiler, Ends Microsoft's Yahoo Search

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
Microsoft and Yahoo were pushed to the brink of a multibillion-dollar marriage and then to a sudden breakup this weekend by the same player. 
 It was Google, in the odd dual role of both unwitting matchmaker and self-interested spoiler. 
 Google's phenomenal rise, after all, prodded Microsoft, the dominant technology company for more than two decades, to court Yahoo. And Google's success also weakened Yahoo enough to give Microsoft the sense that it could buy the company at a good price.
 A combined Microsoft-Yahoo would create a powerful competitor, and Google early on indicated that it would fight the merger on antitrust grounds in Washington and Brussels.
 But Google played a part in killing the deal, for now at least, by acting more as friend than foe. It offered to let Yahoo use its more sophisticated search advertising technology, which by some estimates would have meant $1 billion in additional cash flow a year for Yahoo. The partnership would also bring Google more revenue. 
 The prospect of such a partnership emboldened Yahoo's board to demand more money for the company and eventually caused Microsoft to rethink its strategy.
 Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, cited the proposed Google partnership as the main reason for not pursuing a hostile bid and instead walking away on Saturday.
 ''Such an arrangement with the dominant search provider would make an acquisition of Yahoo undesirable to us,'' he wrote Jerry Yang, Yahoo's chief executive, in a letter, and cited five specific reasons Google would be bad for Yahoo. 
 Yahoo may well pursue the partnerships with Google, its main rival, to bolster its depressed stock price. Yahoo shares dropped 15 percent, or $4.30 Monday, to $24.37. The two companies refused to comment.
 Not surprisingly, analysts are saying the Microsoft-Yahoo story has one clear winner: Google. And its stock price reflected that thinking Monday. More than $4 billion was added to Google's value as the stock price rose 2.34 percent. 
 Not yet 10 years old, Google has emerged as a powerhouse that is wielding tremendous power in the world of technology and beyond. It was able to influence a government auction of broadcast spectrum. It nudged several cellphone companies into opening up their networks to the phones of rivals. 
 Its influence is all the more surprising, because its economic power is still derived largely from a single, seemingly prosaic business: the ability to place interesting text advertisements in front of people when they do searches. Advertisers pay for those ads -- sometimes $1 or less -- only when users click on them. In a sense, Google has built a highly profitable $16.6 billion empire a dollar at a time.
 ''They are the company that is going to have more influence and more control over the structure of the world information industry than any other,'' said David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. ''The right way to think about Google is they are the next Microsoft.''
 The mission set by Google's two founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, to organize all the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful is every bit as ambitious as Microsoft's goal, in the early 1980s, to put a PC on every desk and in every home, said Tim O'Reilly, chief executive of O'Reilly Media. 
 ''Microsoft succeeded,'' said Mr. O'Reilly, producer of the Web 2.0 Summit, a high-profile industry conference. ''Now Google has an incredibly audacious goal. Great companies do come from big ideas and people who are willing to go after really big ideas.''
 It is the combination of Google's economic power and its unbounded ambition that strikes fear in industry leaders in the world of technology, and beyond, in advertising, media and telecommunications. In part that is because Google wields power more subtly, and perhaps more effectively, than other big companies ever have. 
 For instance, this year Google rattled some of the biggest players in the telecommunications industry. The company played an important role in persuading the Federal Communications Commission to impose ''open access'' conditions on an auction for a portion of the nation's airwaves. The conditions require that any network using those airwaves allow any phone and any software to run on it. Such a rule breaks the established business model of the cellphone industry, where carriers have significant control over what phones their customers can use.
 Google backed its lobbying for the conditions with the promise to bid at least $4.6 billion, the minimum price set by regulators for the spectrum. Google then bid that amount, not with the intention of winning, but simply to force the open-access conditions. Verizon Wireless ultimately won rights to the spectrum. 
 ''They just wanted to saddle a potential competitor with those obligations,'' said Scott Cleland, a telecommunications analyst and frequent Google critic. 
 Some lawmakers even said Google's role amounted to ''gaming the system.'' Google disputes that accusation, saying it risked its own capital in the auction. Both Google and the F.C.C. said the conditions would benefit consumers. 
 ''Google has thought very strategically about having to impact the market without necessarily spending a lot of money,'' Mr. Yoffie said. ''It pays to be clever.''
 He saw the same strategy at work in the Microsoft-Yahoo deal. ''They played spoiler by giving the Yahoo board confidence that they had a viable economic solution if they turned down the Microsoft offer,'' Mr. Yoffie said. 
 As Google's clout grows, the company may encounter the same antitrust scrutiny that hobbled Microsoft. Regulators in the United States and Europe investigated Google's merger with DoubleClick for nearly a year before approving it. The Justice Department has already begun asking questions about the antitrust implications in the possible partnership between Google and Yahoo. Yet it was little more a year ago that Mr. Ballmer described Google as a one-trick pony in a speech to business school students at Google's birthplace, Stanford. 
 That remains largely true today. The search ads, as well as similar text ads that Google places on tens of thousands of partner Web sites, still drive the overwhelming majority of the company's revenue. But it is a one-trick pony with the speed and surefootedness of Secretariat. 
 Google's dominance of the search advertising business is overwhelming. In March, Google accounted for almost 60 percent of all searches in the United States, according to comScore. That was nearly triple Yahoo's share of 21.3 percent, and more than six times Microsoft's 9.4 percent share. In some European countries, Google's dominance is even larger. 
 The search advertising business has proved so profitable, that it has allowed Google to make large investments in a long string of other businesses. Few of them make much money now, but analysts say that many of them may some day turn into very profitable enterprises.
 Google is now the dominant player in online video after its 2006 acquisition of YouTube; it has begun offering, mostly free, a suite of e-mail, word processing, spreadsheet and other programs that compete with two of Microsoft's cash cows, Office and Exchange; it is building software for mobile phones that later this year may compete with Apple's iPhone and others; it has begun selling advertisements on television, radio and newspapers; and with its acquisition of DoubleClick this year, it is going after the market for online banners and graphical ads, which is Yahoo's bread and butter. 
 Google's success is not preordained. The company has yet to prove it can make money in any of these markets beyond online text ads. Even in graphical advertisements online -- the banners, video ads and social network ads, that marketers use to create brand awareness -- Google remains a relatively small player. It is an important market that is expected to some day match the search advertising business in size. 
 ''Search is great, but you can't advertise Coca-Cola in search,'' said Peter Sealey, a former chief marketing officer at the Coca-Cola Company. ''Google is going to try to compete there, but they don't have the same algorithm that they had in search.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); MERGERS (75%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); YAHOO! INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (74%); JERRY YANG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



164 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2009 words

HEADLINE: DOUBTS RAISED ON BIG BACKERS OF MORTGAGES

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
As home prices continue their free fall and banks shy away from lending, Washington officials have increasingly relied on two giant mortgage companies -- Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- to keep the housing market afloat. 
 But with mortgage defaults and foreclosures rising, Bush administration officials, regulators and lawmakers are nervously asking whether these two companies, would-be saviors of the housing market, will soon need saving themselves.
 The companies, which say fears that they might falter are baseless, have recently received broad new powers and billions of dollars of investing authority from the federal government. And as Wall Street all but abandons the mortgage business, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac now overwhelmingly dominate it, handling more than 80 percent of all mortgages bought by investors in the first quarter of this year. That is more than double their market share in 2006. 
 But some financial experts worry that the companies are dangerously close to the edge, especially if home prices go through another steep decline. Their combined cushion of $83 billion -- the capital that their regulator requires them to hold -- underpins a colossal $5 trillion in debt and other financial commitments. 
 The companies, which were created by Congress but are owned by investors, suffered more than $9 billion in mortgage-related losses last year, and analysts expect those losses to grow this year. Fannie Mae is to release its latest financial results on Tuesday and Freddie Mac is to report earnings next week. 
 The companies are sitting on as much as $19 billion in additional losses that they have not yet fully acknowledged, analysts say. If either company stumbled, the mortgage business could lose its only lubricant, potentially causing the housing market to plummet and the credit markets to freeze up completely. 
 And if Fannie or Freddie fail, taxpayers would probably have to bail them out at a staggering cost.
 ''We've taken tremendous risks by loosening these companies' purse strings,'' said Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida and a former secretary of housing and urban development. ''They could cause an economywide meltdown if they got into real trouble and leave the public on the hook for billions.''
 Concerns over the companies' finances have prompted a fierce behind-the-scenes battle between nervous government officials and the two companies. Bush administration officials, the Federal Reserve and lawmakers all believe that the companies' financial safety cushion is far too thin and have pleaded with them to raise more capital from investors.
 Freddie and Fannie, which are enjoying new growth and profits, have largely resisted those pleas, people briefed on the talks say, because selling new shares could dilute the holdings of existing shareholders and drive down their stock prices. Though executives have promised to raise money this year, they refuse to specify how much and when. 
 Moreover, the companies are using their newfound clout to push Congress and their regulator to roll back the limits that were imposed after recent scandals over accounting and executive pay, according to participants in those conversations.
 More Capital Sought
 As a result, high-ranking government officials are now quietly threatening to publicly criticize the two companies if they do not soon raise large amounts of capital, people with firsthand knowledge of those threats say. William Poole, a president of a Federal Reserve bank who has since retired, has warned that companies like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are ''at the top of my list of sources of potentially serious trouble.'' 
 A report last month by the agency overseeing the companies said that they pose ''significant supervisory concerns'' and that Freddie Mac suffers ''internal control weaknesses.'' 
 Lawmakers are pushing to rein in the companies with new legislation. Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who leads the Banking Committee, will soon take up legislation giving the government broad authority over the companies. Lawmakers say it is likely a bill will pass this year. 
 ''They are on real thin ice financially,'' said Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Banking Committee. ''And the way the law is written right now, there is very little we can do to correct that.''
 The companies say such criticisms are without merit. Their latest regulatory filings, they note, show a combined financial safety net that exceeds required minimums by $7 billion. The companies raised $13 billion from investors last year and say any future losses will be offset by new revenue and by money they have already set aside.
 Criticisms Rejected
 ''The irony is that right now I'm seeing the best opportunities since I've been in this business,'' said Daniel H. Mudd, chief executive of Fannie Mae, in an interview conducted last month. 
 The companies also say that they have not demanded anything. Rather, they say, the limitations have been dropped because of the companies' commitment to financial transparency and aiding the housing recovery.
 But others remain concerned. Though the companies' main regulator, James B. Lockhart III, director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, has voiced strong confidence in the companies, a high-ranking member of his staff said some officials had begun considering the worst.
 ''It's not irrational to be thinking about a bailout,'' said that person, who requested anonymity, fearing dismissal. 
 Fannie and Freddie do not lend directly to home buyers. Rather, they buy mortgages from banks and other lenders, and thereby provide fresh capital for home loans. The companies keep some of the mortgages they buy, hoping to profit from them, and sell the rest to investors with a guarantee to pay off the loan if the borrower defaults.
 Because of the widespread perception that the government would intervene if either company failed, they can borrow money at lower interest rates than their competitors. As a result, they have earned enormous profits that have enriched shareholders and managers alike: from 1990 to 2000, each company's stock grew more than 500 percent and top executives were paid tens of millions of dollars. 
 Those profits were threatened earlier this decade, however, when new competitors emerged and after audits revealed that both companies had manipulated their earnings. The companies were forced to replace top executives, pay hundreds of millions in penalties and consent to strict growth limits. 
 To keep profits aloft and meet affordable-housing goals set by Congress, the companies began buying huge numbers of subprime and Alt-A mortgages, the highly profitable loans often taken out by low-income and riskier borrowers. By the end of last year, the companies had guaranteed or invested in $717 billion of subprime and Alt-A loans, up from almost none in 2000. 
 Then the housing bubble burst. In February, the companies revealed a $6 billion combined loss in the fourth quarter of 2007, and both companies' stock prices fell more than 25 percent in less than two weeks. Freddie Mac fell to $17.39 on March 10 from $24.49 on Feb. 28, while Fannie Mae declined to $19.81 on March 10 from $27.90 on Feb. 28.
 Despite those troubles, lawmakers had few alternatives to asking Fannie and Freddie to buy more and riskier mortgages. 
 ''I want these companies to help with affordable housing, to help low-income families get loans and to help clean up this subprime mess,'' said Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat and the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. ''Otherwise, why should they exist?''
 Demands for Repeals
 But now that the government depends on Fannie and Freddie to keep markets humming, the companies are making demands of their own -- namely, repealing some of the limits created after the scandals and even some established by law. 
 Last year, in return for buying billions of dollars of subprime mortgages to help stabilize the market, executives won the right to expand their investment portfolios. In March, the companies agreed to raise more capital within the year. In exchange, they received an additional $200 billion in purchasing power. 
 Last month, the companies promised to pump money into the more expensive reaches of the housing market. In return, Congress temporarily raised the cap on the size of the mortgages they can buy to almost $730,000 from $417,000. 
 ''We have to bow and scrape and haggle each time we need help,'' said a senior Republican Senate assistant who spoke only on the condition of anonymity.
 Each time Congress or regulators have given the companies new room for growth, their stock prices have risen. But so far the companies have balked at raising more capital. That hesitation has lawmakers concerned that when the companies raise money this year, it will not be enough.
 In a March meeting, Freddie Mac's chairman, Richard F. Syron, bolstered those fears by saying the company would put shareholders' interests first. Michael L. Cosgrove, a spokesman for Freddie Mac, said Mr. Syron is committed to both satisfying the company's public mission and creating shareholder value. Fannie Mae, which is in a regulatory-imposed quiet period because it will soon release financial information, declined to comment on capital-raising issues.
 As worrisome as the need for new capital, some analysts say, are the companies' books.
 A report released earlier this month by Mr. Lockhart, the regulator, noted that although Freddie and Fannie had a combined $19.9 billion of ''unrealized losses'' on mortgage-related investments, neither company had reduced its earnings to reflect those declines. That is because they judged the losses to be temporary -- in essence wagering that the mortgage market would recover before those assets were sold. Such a wager is permitted by the rules but difficult for outsiders to analyze.
 Fannie Mae declined to discuss unrealized losses. Mr. Cosgrove, the Freddie Mac spokesman, said the company discloses all financial choices and downgrades all potentially impaired securities when appropriate.
 The regulator's report also noted that Freddie used accounting choices that gave it an immediate $1 billion capital increase. While those and other tactics are technically permitted, the regulator said, they deserve scrutiny.
 ''Companies can make assumptions that cause very large differences in what they report,'' Mr. Lockhart said in an interview. He has repeatedly said that the companies are making good progress and have fixed many of their problems. But at least one accounting choice, he said, ''concerns us.''
 Mr. Cosgrove said Freddie Mac's accounting choices had been the best way to reflect financial realities.
 Both companies have also recently changed their policies on delinquent loans, which they previously recorded as impaired when borrowers were 120 days late. Now, some overdue loans can go two years before the companies record a loss. 
 Fannie Mae declined to discuss the accounting of impaired loans. A representative of Freddie Mac said marking loans as permanently impaired at 120 days does not reflect that many of them avoid foreclosure. But the biggest risk, analysts say, is that both companies are betting that the housing market will rebound by 2010. If the housing malaise lasts longer, unexpected losses could overwhelm their reserves, starting a chain of events that could result in a federal bailout. 
 A version of those events began in November, when Freddie Mac's capital fell below congressionally mandated levels. The company stemmed the decline by selling $6 billion in preferred stock. But it might not manage that again if there is another unexpected loss, analysts say.
 ''The last two years have shown the real need for a stronger regulator,'' Mr. Lockhart said. If his agency did not curb the companies' growth earlier this decade, he added, ''they would be part of the problem right now instead of part of the solution.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fannie Mae, led by Daniel H. Mudd, left, and Freddie Mac, headed by Richard F. Syron, handled more than 80 percent of all mortgages bought by investors in the first quarter of this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: A Small Cushion for a Potentially Big Fall: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchase mortgages from other institutions and either hold them in their own portfolios or sell them to investors. Here are some of Fannie Mae's financial positions that relate to its core capital or its cushion against losses. If the core capital falls below a governmentmandated threshold, taxpayers could become responsible for trillions of dollars of commitments.(Source: Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight) Chart details Fannie Mae financial positions As of the end of 2007. (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); MARKET SHARE (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: RICHARD F SYRON (57%); MEL MARTINEZ (57%); DANIEL H MUDD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



165 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; MIND; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: I'm Not Lying, I'm Telling a Future Truth. Really.

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
Some tales are so tall that they trip over their own improbable feats, narrative cracks and melodrama. That one-on-one playground victory over Kobe Bryant back in the day; the 34 hours in labor without painkillers; the former girlfriend or boyfriend who spoke eight languages and was a secret agent besides.
 Yes, uh-huh, really. Is it closing time yet? 
 Yet in milder doses, self-serving exaggeration can be nearly impossible to detect, experts say, and there are several explanations.
 A series of recent studies, focusing on students who inflate their grade-point average, suggests that such exaggeration is very different psychologically from other forms of truth twisting. Touching up scenes or past performances induces none of the anxiety that lying or keeping secrets does, these studies find; and embroiderers often work to live up to the enhanced self-images they project. The findings imply that some kinds of deception are aimed more at the deceiver than at the audience, and they may help in distinguishing braggarts and posers from those who are expressing personal aspirations, however clumsily.
 ''It's important to emphasize that the motives driving academic exaggeration seem to be personal and 'intrapsychic' rather than public or interpersonal,'' said Richard H. Gramzow, a psychologist at the University of Southampton in England who has led much of the research. ''Basically, exaggeration here reflects positive goals for the future, and we have found that those goals tend to be realized.'' 
 Psychologists have studied deception from all sides and have found that it usually puts a psychological or physical strain on the person doing the dissembling. People with guilty knowledge -- of a detail from a crime scene, for example -- tend to show signs of stress, as measured by heart and skin sensors, under pointed questioning. 
 Trying to hold onto an inflammatory secret is mentally exhausting, studies have found, and the act of suppressing the information can cause thoughts of it to flood the consciousness. When telling outright lies, people tend to look and sound tenser than usual.
 ''Specifically, people are especially more tense when lying, compared to telling the truth, when they are highly motivated to get away with their lies and when they are lying about a transgression,'' said Bella DePaulo, a visiting professor of psychology at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
 But a study published in February in the journal Emotion found that exactly the opposite was true for students who exaggerated their grades. The researchers had 62 Northeastern University students fill out a computerized form asking, among other things, for cumulative grade point average. The students were then interviewed while hooked up to an array of sensitive electrodes measuring nervous system activation. The scripted interview covered academic history, goals and grades.
 The researchers then pulled the students' records, with permission, and found that almost half had exaggerated their average by as much as six-tenths of a point. Yet the electrode readings showed that oddly enough, the exaggerators became significantly more relaxed while discussing their grades. 
 ''It was a robust effect, the sort of readings you see when people are engaged in a positive social encounter, or when they're meditating,'' said Wendy Berry Mendes, an associate professor of psychology at Harvard and senior author of the study. Dr. Gramzow and Greg Willard, then at Northeastern and now at Harvard, were co-authors.
 The researchers videotaped the interviews, and independent observers rated how students looked and behaved. ''The ones who exaggerated the most appeared the most calm and confident'' on the ratings, Dr. Mendes said. 
 The grade inflation was less an attempt to deceive, the authors concluded, than a reflection of healthy overconfidence and a statement of aspirations. ''It's basically an exercise in projecting the self toward one's goals,'' Dr. Gramzow said.
 In earlier studies, Dr. Gramzow and Dr. Willard found that students who bumped up their averages in interviews subsequently improved their grades -- often by the very amount they had exaggerated.
 The findings provide another lens through which to view claims, from Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's story of sniper fire in Bosnia to exaggerations of income, charitable contributions and SAT scores. As much as these are embroideries, they are also expressions of yearning, and for reachable goals.
 In that sense, fibs can reflect something close to the opposite of the frustration, insecurity and secretiveness that often fuel big lies. That may be why they can come so easily, add up so fast and for some people -- especially around closing time -- become indistinguishable from the truth. 
 The Well column will return May 20. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN CUNEO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); GRADES & GRADING (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); GRADE INFLATION (75%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) ENGLAND (69%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



166 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: In Democracy Kuwait Trusts, But Not Much

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

DATELINE: KUWAIT 

 BODY:
In a vast, high-ceilinged tent, Ali al-Rashed sounded an anguished note as he delivered the first speech of his campaign for Parliament.
 ''Kuwait used to be No. 1 in the economy, in politics, in sports, in culture, in everything,'' he said, his voice floating out in the warm evening air to hundreds of potential voters seated on white damask-lined chairs. ''What happened?''
 It is a question many people are asking as this tiny, oil-rich nation of 2.6 million people approaches its latest round of elections. And the unlikely answer being whispered around, both here and in neighboring countries on the Persian Gulf: too much democracy. 
 In a region where autocracy is the rule, Kuwait is a remarkable exception, with a powerful and truculent elected Parliament that sets the emir's salary and is the nation's sole source of legislation. Women gained the right to vote and run for office two years ago, and a popular movement won further electoral changes. 
 Despite those gains, Kuwait has been overshadowed by its dynamic neighbors -- Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Qatar -- where economies are booming under absolute monarchies. Efforts to overhaul Kuwait's sclerotic welfare state have stalled in its fractious and divided Parliament, and scandals led the emir to dissolve the chamber last month for the second time in less than two years, forcing new elections.
 All this has left many Kuwaitis deeply disenchanted with their 50-member elected legislature. The collapse of the Bush administration's efforts to promote democracy in the region and the continuing chaos in Iraq, just to the north -- once heralded as the birthplace of a new democratic model -- have also contributed to a popular suspicion that democracy itself is one Western import that has not lived up to its advertising.
 ''People say democracy is just slowing us down, and that we'd be better off if we were more like Dubai,'' said Waleed al-Sager, 24, who is advising his father's campaign for Parliament.
 Like many Kuwaitis, Mr. Sager quickly distanced himself from that view. But as the May 17 parliamentary elections approach, with near-constant coverage in a dozen new newspapers and on satellite television stations, candidates refer again and again to a ''halat ihbaat'' -- state of frustration. His father, Mohammed al-Sager, a longtime member of Parliament, delivered his own opening campaign speech shortly after Mr. Rashed two weeks ago, and spent much of it urgently reminding his listeners of the need for an elected assembly. 
 ''Some people have called for a permanent dissolution of Parliament,'' he said, his face telecast on an enormous screen to a thick overflow crowd outside the tent. ''But everywhere in the world -- in Africa, in Palestine, in the old Soviet Union -- people have turned to elections to solve their problems, not away from them. Whatever problems we have in our Parliament, we must remember that it is much better than no Parliament at all.''
 One source of frustration has been the failure to reform Kuwait's state-controlled economy. After the 2006 elections, many Kuwaitis were hoping for changes to cumbersome government rules that allow land to be allocated for business projects. Instead, the effort was blocked in Parliament. The slow pace of efforts to privatize the national airline and parts of the oil sector has also caused disappointment. 
 Many Kuwaitis also complain about government neglect of public hospitals and schools. Problems with the power grid caused brownouts last summer.
 Although parts of Kuwait City were rebuilt after the Iraqi invasion of 1990, much of it looks faded and tatty, a striking contrast with the gleaming hyper-modernity of Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Qatar. 
 The current political malaise is especially striking because most Kuwaitis take pride in their nation's relatively democratic traditions. The ruling Sabah family acquired its position not through conquest, but with an agreement among the coastal traders of the region in the mid-18th century. After Kuwait gained independence from the British in 1961, the emir approved a written Constitution that sharply limited his power in relation to Parliament. 
 ''This ruling family is different from any other ruling family in the region,'' said Ghanim al-Najjar, a newspaper columnist and professor of political science at Kuwait University. ''They are part of the political process, not on top of it.''
 In some ways, Kuwait is the most democratic country in the Arab world, aside from Lebanon. There are Arab republics -- in Yemen, Egypt, Algeria, Syria, Iraq and Tunisia -- but despite their democratic forms, those countries have generally been more autocratic and repressive than the region's monarchies. Even in Lebanon, democracy is limited by a sectarian system of power-sharing. 
 In Kuwait, by contrast, tensions between the majority Sunnis and minority Shiites are minimal. Kuwaitis of all backgrounds mix socially at diwaniyas, the traditional evening gatherings where political and social gossip is shared over tea and coffee. There is some conflict between Islamists and liberals in Parliament, but with no officially recognized political parties, ideology is flexible and shifting.
 And while there have been setbacks -- the royal family suspended Parliament in the late 1970s and again in the late 1980s -- Kuwait has grown steadily more democratic. Two years ago, popular pressure forced a change in the electoral districting law, making it harder to buy votes. Women gained the right to vote and run in elections (though none have won seats). In mid-April, Kuwaiti democrats won yet another battle after the government tried to pass a law restricting public gatherings. There were popular demonstrations against the proposal, and the government backed down. 
 But those civic freedoms have come alongside signs of real frustration. Despite the world's fifth largest oil reserves, many Kuwaitis are upset with the absence of business and investment opportunity, at least as compared with other countries nearby.
 At a recent campaign rally, Abdul Rahman al-Anjari, a candidate for Parliament, pounded his fist on the lectern as he recited statistics showing that capital outflow and inflow in Kuwait was a small fraction of the numbers in the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain. 
 ''What does this mean?'' Mr. Anjari said, standing in front of a vast banner bearing his name and those of three other candidates who favor privatization. ''It means we are losing jobs to other gulf countries, and for no reason!'' 
 It is unlikely that many Kuwaitis would be willing to trade their political rights and freedoms for more economic opportunity. But the notion that democracy is somehow holding Kuwait back is common.
 ''It's true, the friction in our politics delays things,'' said Kamel Harami, an oil analyst. ''The sheik of Abu Dhabi can say, 'Go build this,' and it's done. He doesn't have me, the press, the TV stations, the Parliament, getting in his way. But what people need to understand is that democracy isn't the problem; it's that democracy isn't being used correctly.''
 Some Kuwaitis say the current emir, Sheik Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah, has deliberately fostered the idea that Parliament is the root of the country's problems. When he called for new elections in March, the emir pointedly urged Kuwaitis to elect a Parliament that would help develop the country. 
 There is an authoritarian wing of the royal family that has long wanted to curtail Parliament's powers, as happened in the late '70s and the late '80s. The royal family, which appoints the executive branch, has also used its influence to support parliamentary candidates from Kuwait's more tribally oriented ''Bedouin'' population, because they were more pliant and less interested in political reform. They are also generally less wealthy, and many say the Bedouins (who no longer live in the desert as their ancestors did) are now resisting economic reforms because they believe they would not benefit from them as much as Kuwait's urban merchant elite would. 
 But Parliament has its own share of responsibility. Reform legislation on foreign investment and other issues has consistently stalled. Parliament has also set off embarrassing controversies, when members subjected ministers from the non-elected executive branch to public questioning sessions -- a practice known in Kuwait as grilling -- intended to humiliate or force a resignation. It was a grilling of the defense minister, and the prospect of a similar clash with the prime minister, that appears to have pushed the emir to dissolve Parliament. 
 Many younger Kuwaitis who took part here in what they called the Orange revolution two years ago, when street demonstrations helped press the government to overhaul the country's election districting law, now seem cynical. One popular Kuwaiti blog posted a poem lamenting the absence of real change on the political scene, ending with the lines: ''Restart does not work / neither does Turn Off / and we can't leave the country on Stand By.'' 
 Still, as the candidates troop from one diwaniya to the next in search of votes, any sort of retreat from democratic values seems unlikely. 
 ''There are people who want to say, Look at democracy, look at what it causes,' '' said Nawaf al-Mutairi, a business student. ''But we know democracy is our last hope. The problem is just that democracy is incremental.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Parliamentary candidates from an opposition party in an overflow area of a Kuwait City rally in April that opened their campaign.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
Politics was the topic two weeks ago during a typical social gathering in a Kuwait City basement.
 Much of Kuwait City's financial district lies in disrepair, in contrast to the gleaming modernity of Dubai and other neighbors.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (60%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%) KUWAIT (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); QATAR (79%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



167 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Attack and Counterattack

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York on Monday engaged in a rapid-fire exchange of confrontational advertisements on television stations in Indiana and North Carolina. Here are two from the barrage.
 PRODUCER Obama campaign media team
 THE SCRIPT A male narrator says: ''A war that should never have been waged. An economy in turmoil. Record prices at the pump. America held hostage to foreign oil. And what does Hillary Clinton offer us? More of the same old negative politics. Her hometown newspaper says she's taking the low road. Her attacks do nothing but harm. The same old Washington politics won't fix our problems. We need honest answers and a president we can trust.'' Mr. Obama says, ''I'm Barack Obama, and I approve this message.'' 
 ON THE SCREEN The scenes switch between images of Mrs. Clinton speaking; a woman hugging a man who appears to be a returning soldier; and the defining symbols of the economic downturn, a gasoline station price board and a foreclosure sign. The spot includes on-screen captions, like ''What Does Hillary Offer Us?'' and ''The Same Old Negative Politics,'' and then excerpts from an April 23 editorial in The New York Times are quoted by the narrator. It finishes with an image of the White House at night and Mr. Obama at a rally.
 ACCURACY The Times published an editorial on April 23 titled ''The Low Road to Victory.'' It read, in part, ''It is past time for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton to acknowledge that the negativity, for which she is mostly responsible, does nothing but harm to her, her opponent, her party and the 2008 election.'' But that editorial singled out Mr. Obama as well. ''Mr. Obama is not blameless when it comes to the negative and vapid nature of this campaign,'' it said. ''He is increasingly rising to Mrs. Clinton's bait, undercutting his own claims that he is offering a higher, more inclusive form of politics.''
 PRODUCER Clinton campaign media team
 THE SCRIPT An announcer says, ''What's happened to Barack Obama?'' A woman holding a baby says, ''Right now, we're living paycheck to paycheck.'' The announcer says, ''He's attacking Hillary's plan to give you a break on gas prices because he doesn't have one.'' A man standing outdoors says, ''The price of gas is going up.'' A waitress says, ''It's hard to fill up the tank.'' The announcer says: ''Hillary wants the oil companies to pay for the gas tax this summer so that you don't have to. Barack Obama wants you to keep paying, $8 billion in all. Hillary's the one who gets it.'' The man says, ''Hillary Clinton is the candidate that's going to fight for working people.'' Mrs. Clinton says, ''I'm Hillary Clinton, and I approve this message.'' 
 ON THE SCREEN The spot primarily features images of Mrs. Clinton as she mingles with voters and factory workers and of everyday voters speaking into the camera. It also includes several on-screen captions, like ''What happened to Barack Obama?'' and ''Obama wants you to keep paying gas taxes, $8 billion in all.'' 
 ACCURACY Mr. Obama does have a long-term plan to address gasoline prices; it calls for higher fuel efficiency standards and increased efforts to develop alternative fuels. He has criticized Mrs. Clinton's proposal for a suspension of the federal gasoline tax as a short-term fix that would not achieve its desired result. Various economists have said the elimination of the tax -- at a cost of $8 billion -- would not greatly reduce prices in part because increased demand would send them back up.
 SCORECARD Following a pattern, Mrs. Clinton last week introduced the first confrontational advertisements in Indiana and North Carolina, and Mr. Obama responded in kind. If the past can be a guide, the negativity threatens to drive up unfavorable opinions of Mrs. Clinton even as it threatens to take a toll on Mr. Obama, who has little choice but to respond. With better finances, Mr. Obama has been able to outgun Mrs. Clinton on television, spending $3.8 million to her $1.8 million for advertisements in Indiana and $2.5 million to her $1.4 million for ones in North Carolina, according to the Campaign Media Analysis Group. But Mrs. Clinton arguably gains the advantage every time she forces Mr. Obama to engage in a televised tit-for-tat that she can portray as a betrayal of his vow to practice a transcendent brand of politics. JIM RUTENBERG 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); GAS STATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FUEL TAX (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



168 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: With Right Props and Right Stops, a Transformation Into Working-Class Hero

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR; John M. Broder contributed reporting.

 BODY:
All over North Carolina and Indiana, crowds of teachers and truckers, salespeople and small business owners, have been hailing Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as one of their own.
 ''She's a working mom,'' Tracy Zettel, who works for a health insurance company, said Saturday while waiting for Mrs. Clinton to appear in Cary, N.C. ''That's what I am.''
 ''A good ol' girl,'' Clyde Swedenberg, owner of a small jewelry store, called her in Lakeside Park, N.C.
 After listening to her speak in Fort Wayne, Ind., on Sunday, Joe Jakacky, a warehouse worker, remarked that Mrs. Clinton had started out just like he did, in a menial job. 
 Whatever the results of the primaries on Tuesday in Indiana and North Carolina, Mrs. Clinton has accomplished the seemingly impossible in those states. Somehow, a woman who has not regularly filled her own gasoline tank in well over a decade, who with her husband made $109 million in the last eight years and who vacations with Oscar de la Renta, has transformed herself into a working-class hero. 
 In promoting herself as a champion of ordinary Americans in a troubled economy, Mrs. Clinton has also tried to cast her rival, Senator Barack Obama, as an out-of-touch elitist. She has made her case at all the right stops (an auto-racing hall of fame) and used all the right props (lately delivering speeches from pickup beds). 
 But what is more remarkable about Mrs. Clinton's approach in Indiana and North Carolina is how minimally she uses her own biography. Perhaps because almost nothing she could say about her life would sound humble or hardscrabble -- she grew up in an affluent Chicago suburb, went to prestigious schools and is, of course, a lawyer -- Mrs. Clinton says very little about herself at all. Instead, she focuses on her audience's concerns. In most speeches, she now offers just one suggestive strand of her life story.
 Introducing her plans to overhaul the student loan system, Mrs. Clinton explains that although her father paid her tuition, room and board for college, he refused to pay more. ''If I wanted a book or a cup of coffee, I had to pay for it with money I made,'' she said Monday at a community college in Greenville, N.C. She never says the name Wellesley.
 This is a surprising turn in the Story of Hillary Clinton, who spent her Wellesley years as an activist and a student leader. She wrote a chapter of ''Living History,'' her autobiography, about the college, but never mentioned earning money. What the work was, she does not say in these speeches. (A campaign representative said she baby-sat, did research for a professor and supervised a park.) 
 From there, Mrs. Clinton quickly turns to the concerns of the people standing before her, usually a few hundred and usually white.
 At Indiana Tech College in Fort Wayne on Sunday, she repeated a favored anecdote, about watching a young commuter paying $63 for a half-tank of gasoline. 
 ''Ninety-five dollars!'' cried an audience member, offering his testimony.
 ''One hundred and two dollars!'' another called.
 Exuding empathy, Mrs. Clinton bellows accusations at the villains of her speeches -- oil companies, the Chinese government and George W. Bush -- and returns to a plaintive voice to plead the case of hard-working Hoosiers or Tar Heels. She raises eyebrows and arms in exaggerated indignation. Students who take jobs they do not particularly want after graduation just to repay loans are ''indentured servants,'' while Americans who took out mortgages they could not afford are victims of manipulation.
 She never quite says, ''I feel your pain,'' Bill Clinton's most famous line of the 1992 presidential election, but she comes close.
 ''I don't think folks in Washington listen enough,'' Mrs. Clinton said in Greenville, a catch developing in her voice. ''Because if we listen we will hear this incredible cry: 'Please just pay attention to what's going on in our lives.' '' 
 Many voters at these events marvel at Mrs. Clinton's understanding. After 16 months of hearing hard-luck stories, she has developed a special radar. Delivering her speech on Sunday in Fort Wayne, Mrs. Clinton's gaze fell upon a man in fatigues. ''I see someone in uniform that I'm especially concerned about,'' she said. ''While our troops are serving, their homes are being foreclosed on.''
 Sure enough, the man, Lance Recht, a National Guard member who served in the first Iraq war, is struggling to save his home. He works at a muffler shop and may join the border patrol in Arizona, leaving his wife and children so he can pay a mortgage whose interest rates have shot up.
 ''We are that close to foreclosure,'' Mr. Recht said in an interview, joining his thumb and forefinger. 
 When Mrs. Clinton singled him out, his wife, Marissa Recht, said, Mrs. Clinton had no way of knowing their story.
 As the economy has weakened, Mrs. Clinton's candidacy has strengthened, and like Oprah Winfrey interviewing a tearful guest, she cannot seem to help but exult a little in bad news. At each event, she asks for student loan interest rates. 
 ''Is anyone paying more than 20 percent?'' she asks. ''Twenty-seven percent!'' she said Saturday night in Indianapolis, repeating a reply in the crowd. 
 She said she had recently met someone paying 30 percent, adding, ''I think we hit the jackpot.'' 
 Even as Mrs. Clinton shifts herself down market, she moves her audience up market, speaking in flatteringly aspirational language. Choosing a president is like choosing a builder for your dream house, she told an audience in North Carolina. She tells histories of wealthy people who struggle with, would you believe, the same problems as her audiences. A C.E.O. of a grocery chain who decided that his company could not afford the increase in health care costs. A wealthy constituent who could not manage to make his insurance company pay for lifesaving care.
 But she sometimes slips back to Washington wonk from factory girl. In Greenville, she expressed solidarity with struggling homeowners and truckers, but then talked about intellectual property theft by the Chinese, the need to expand production of cellulosic ethanol and the emergence of adult-onset Type II diabetes among pre-teenagers.
 Waiting for an event on Saturday morning, Sharon Glenn, an eighth-grade teacher, said she knew Mrs. Clinton's life was nothing like her own. 
 After a rally on Friday night, Ms. Glenn said: ''I'm going home and doing laundry at 1 a.m. She's not doing laundry.'' 
 Still, she said, Mrs. Clinton seems more connected to her concerns than Mr. Obama. 
 ''I'm not sure how that happened for us,'' Ms. Glenn said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at a rally in Greenville, N.C., where she told of working for spending money while in college.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (86%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); AUTO RACING (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); STUDENT EXPENSES (62%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (62%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



169 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Set to Defy Bush on War Bill

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Defying President Bush, House Democrats are preparing to forge ahead with a war spending measure that would include extended unemployment assistance and new educational benefits for returning veterans.
 After a meeting Monday evening of House Democratic leaders, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she hoped to bring a $178 billion measure to the floor this week. What could be a contentious debate on the matter is likely to be held on Thursday, aides said.
 Ms. Pelosi, of California, did not disclose details of the proposed bill, which will be presented to rank-and-file Democrats at a closed party session on Tuesday. But Democratic officials, who did not want to be identified since the bill was still being put into final form, said the legislative package would include provisions requiring a significant withdrawal of troops from Iraq by December 2009 and measures that would force Iraq to share more costs of its reconstruction. 
 Democrats also intend to make veterans eligible for new educational assistance if they have served from three months to three years or more on active duty since Sept. 11, 2001. The aid would be equivalent to a four-year scholarship at a public university for those with three years or more service, with payments prorated for those with less time.
 Mr. Bush has steadily insisted he would not approve any legislation that exceeds his spending request for the war, sets any withdrawal deadlines or adds domestic money he opposes like the unemployment benefits. And House Republicans, angry that the measure is not going through formal committee consideration, began on Monday to open procedural attacks on the House floor in protest, forcing extra votes on noncontroversial measures.
 ''The Democrat leaders of the House and Senate are attempting to jam a 200-plus-billion-dollar spending bill through the Congress with absolutely no oversight or scrutiny by a vast majority of members, senators or their constituents,'' Representative Jerry Lewis of California, the senior Republican on the Appropriations Committee, said in a statement on Monday. ''Never in my 30 years in Congress has there been such an abuse of the processes and rules of the House.''
 Democrats said privately that they expected the provisions setting a withdrawal deadline and putting other conditions on the war money to be eliminated by the Senate before a final House vote later this spring.
 The Democratic strategy is to try to hold the underlying measure close to Mr. Bush's bottom line number -- $108 billion in Pentagon money for the current year, $70 billion through the first months of 2009 -- and essentially dare him to veto it over added veterans spending and the unemployment aid.
 Democrats say that they believe Republicans will be reluctant to oppose the expanded veterans money in an election year and that the cost is relatively small in the first year, though it would expand quickly and significantly in subsequent years. Republicans in both the House and Senate have been assembling alternatives to the Democratic veterans plan, which has some bipartisan support. 
 Mr. Bush said last week that he was willing to consider more help for veterans but wanted to do it separately from the war financing measure.
 The House provisions calling for a withdrawal from Iraq would also include a ban on torture of terrorism detainees, a prohibition on permanent bases in Iraq and new readiness requirements for troops, including more time at home between deployments.
 Given the looming election and the stalemate last year over federal spending, many lawmakers see the must-pass war spending bill as the lone spending measure likely to become law this year, increasing the incentive to add money and policy measures to it. Senators of both parties have indicated that they might use the war legislation as a vehicle to push their own priorities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VETO (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); DEFENSE SPENDING (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); JERRY LEWIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



170 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2340 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: May 6, 2008

 BODY:
Foreign
 HONORING THE ROLE OF SURVIVORS
 In the Creation of Israel
 Sixty years after Israel's founding, Yad Vashem, the Holocaust memorial in Jerusalem, is holding an oddly vibrant exhibition about the role Holocaust survivors played in shaping the character of the new state. The exhibition offers a departure from the dominant image of the survivors that Israelis have seen over the past year, which has consisted of elderly people battling the government bureaucracy for monthly stipends. PAGE A8 
 STITCHING KENYA BACK TOGETHER
 Kenya is trying to piece itself back together after an election crisis late last year in which thousands of people were violently driven from their land. Many of the displaced have been living in squalid camps for months and were eager to return to their homes. Some, though, expressed deep unease, and protested in the camps. ''What do you think is going to happen?'' one man asked. ''They will kill us.'' PAGE A10 
 SOCCER THAWS RELATIONS, FOR NOW
 Thousands of British soccer fans are headed to Moscow, which will be the site of the European Champions League final between Manchester United and Chelsea. The logistics of accommodating British fans are complicated by strained relations between Russia and Britain, but the game is important for the newly wealthy Russia, which is eager to show it can play host to international sporting events. PAGE A9 
 19 KILLED IN SEARCH FOR RANCHER
 Gunmen searching for Rogaciano Alba Alvarez, head of a state cattlemen's association in Mexico, killed 16 people over the weekend in the southern coastal state of Guerrero. Eight trucks full of armed men arrived at Mr. Alba Alvarez's ranch, asking for his whereabouts. When his family denied knowing where he was, the gunmen opened fire, killing nine people, including children. Mr. Alba Alvarez has gone into hiding, and authorities are trying to determine a motive for the attacks. PAGE A8 
 National
 WITH EYES ON PRESIDENTIAL RACE,
 Hopefuls Fight for Spotlight
 The Democratic presidential primary in Indiana has stoked voter enthusiasm, with 200,000 new voters registered. But the presidential race has sucked the electoral air out of the room, as other races from around the state struggle for attention. The two Democratic hopefuls for governor find themselves playing to empty rooms and chatting up people who do not know their names. PAGE A17 
 RACE AND THE WAR ON DRUGS
 Blacks and whites use illegal drugs at roughly the same rate, but two new reports say there are large disparities in the rates at which they are arrested and imprisoned for drug offenses. Human Rights Watch, which produced one of the reports, said that adult black men were nearly 12 times as likely to be imprisoned for drug convictions as adult white men. PAGE A21 
 BILL CLINTON, ABRIDGED
 In the last full day before the Democratic primary in North Carolina, former President Bill Clinton's busy schedule has kept him from pressing the flesh in his usual, loquacious way. He darted around the state, speaking to small crowds in some of the state's rural towns. He generally avoided mentioning Senator Barack Obama, and delivered his speeches in a concise, direct way. When a person collapsed from the heat at one event, he tried to hush the crowd. ''You folks don't make so much noise,'' he said before continuing. PAGE A22 
 A NEW WORKING-CLASS HEROINE
 Making her pitch to voters in North Carolina and Indiana, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has recast her image as a working-class heroine. She speaks -- from the back of pickup trucks -- about her life story, though she leaves out certain details that may muddy the picture she is trying to paint of herself in contrasting herself to Senator Barack Obama, whom she has called an elitist. PAGE A22 
 COURTING THE WHITE MALE VOTE
 In his attempts to woo working-class white voters in North Carolina and Indiana, Senator Barack Obama has been holding forth at bars and factory floors. His share of the white male vote has dipped in recent primary contests where he suffered stinging defeats after the controversy over his former pastor's views and accusations from Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton that he is an elitist. PAGE A23 
 METRO
 SCHOOL DISTRICTS SUSPEND
 Open-Campus Policy
 A number of school districts on Long Island and around the country have stopped allowing seniors to go out for lunch, canceling a generations-old rite of passage, because of school officials' and parents' growing concern over truancy and traffic accidents. ''You used to prepare for the kids and now you don't see them,'' says Pete Crescimanno, whose restaurant, Don Jono's Pizzeria, used to overflow with students. PAGE C12 
 DEVELOPERS PLAN HOTEL FOR CAMDEN
 Since it was closed in 1985, the old Plaza Hotel in Camden, N.J., seemed to deliver a warning: Camden was not a place to linger after dark, not a place one stayed. But a group of developers is seeking the planning board's approval this week for a 140-room Hilton Garden Inn on Camden's waterfront; it would be the first new hotel built there in some 70 years. PAGE C11 
 CITY ENFORCES CALORIE COUNTS
 City health inspectors issued violation notices to five restaurants that did not have calorie counts posted beside the prices on their menu boards. The postings, required of restaurants with more than 15 outlets nationwide, were supposed to take effect last month but were delayed while the New York State Restaurant Association took the city to court. PAGE C11 
 Business
 STRIKES HIT G.M. PLANT
 That Makes a Big Seller
 Workers at a factory that makes the Chevrolet Malibu, one of General Motors' most popular and important vehicles, went on strike after they were unable to reach an agreement with the company on local work rules. Some suggest that the United Automobile Workers is singling out critical G.M. plants for strikes in an attempt to pressure a parts manufacturer to reach a deal with its striking workers, though the union denies it. PAGE C5 
 SIN CITY FEELS THE PINCH
 Las Vegas is a town that depends on the extravagance of gamblers and tourists, so the moderation brought on by tough economic times has many in the city feeling jittery. Casinos have fired hundreds of workers. Hotels have slashed room prices. Las Vegas is stepping up efforts to attract visitors, but a long national recession could mean that casinos and resorts scheduled for completion could be scuttled, which would send the city reeling. PAGE C1 
 RANDOM HOUSE HEAD TO STEP DOWN
 Peter W. Olson, a tall, reserved man, is an unusual figure in the publishing industry -- and one of its most powerful. But sources say he is likely to step down as chairman and chief executive of Random House amid pressure over the publishing company's falling sales. Mr. Olson's successor may not be a figure in New York publishing, and perhaps not even an American. PAGE C1 
 FREE WI-FI, WITH STRINGS ATTACHED
 Hotels and retailers that offered free wireless networks to customers are looking for ways to pay for the service as users consume more bandwidth. Some places like Starbucks are asking that customers do something in return, like sign up for a loyalty program or view an advertisement. ''It's not an argument about free versus paid,'' one wireless network executive said. ''It's free and paid.'' PAGE C1 
 Aflac Votes on Executive Pay C3 
 Countrywide Shares Fall 16 Percent C1
 Southwest Waits in the Wings C3 
 SCIENCE TIMES
 ERRING ON THE SIDE
 Of Not Tempting the Gods
 ''It is an irony of the post-Enlightenment world that so many people who don't believe in fate refuse to tempt it,'' wrote two University of Chicago researchers who were looking into how weirdly superstitious people can be. What did they find? People buy life insurance before flying to keep their planes aloft. And once they're given a lottery ticket, they will not part with it for another -- even when offered cash -- just in case the ticket they already have is more likely to be a winner. (It isn't.) TierneyLab, John Tierney. PAGE D1 
 WHEN LYING TO YOURSELF IS GOOD
 Polishing up one's personal narrative with a mild embellishment -- by, say, inflating a grade point average -- is different psychologically than other kinds of intentional deception. In touching up, the deceiver is often only expressing personal aspirations, and tries to live up to the exaggerations, according to one psychologist. ''It's basically an exercise in projecting the self toward one's goals,'' he said. PAGE D5 
 A SURPRISE IN A SIBERIAN LAKE
 Scientists have found that Lake Baikal in Siberia, the largest and deepest freshwater lake in the world, is rapidly warming. This has caused the lake's food web to reorganize, and changes at the bottom of the food web could have striking implications for all creatures that live in the lake. PAGE D3 
 FORCING SOBRIETY, IF IMPERFECTLY
 Last year, American courts instructed thousands of defendants with drinking problems who were released on bond to wear Scram devices, boxy ankle bracelets that measure the wearer's blood alcohol content through perspiration. But the device can be unreliable, yielding false positives when wearers eat foods that cause their bodies to create their own alcohol. And at some point, the wearers have to take them off. PAGE D5 
 REDEFINING DISEASE, GENES AND ALL
 A growing band of researchers is trying to redefine how diseases are classified by looking not at symptoms or physiological measurements, but at genetic underpinnings. Seemingly dissimilar diseases are being lumped together. It turns out that a similar set of genes is active in boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy and adults who have heart attacks, for instance. PAGE D1 
 ARTS
 '70S QUARTET REUNITES,
 Celebrates Messiaen Centennial
 It may not have generated buzz the way the reunion of the Police did last year. But Tashi, the quartet that in the 1970s was classical music's answer to cutting-edge rock, is on its first tour in 30 years. After a rhapsodic performance of Messiaen's ''Quartet for the End of Time'' over the weekend, the packed house at Town Hall responded with the classical-music equivalent of frenzied hysteria: a prolonged standing ovation. A review by Anthony Tommasini. PAGE B1 
 TEE TIME WITH CARL HIAASEN
 ''The Downhill Lie: A Hacker's Return to a Ruinous Sport,'' the new book by Carl Hiaasen, the Miami Herald columnist and bestselling author, is an account of how he took up golf again after what he calls ''a much-needed layoff of 32 years.'' He can often be found playing golf at Quail Valley, a lavish club in Florida and the scene of most of the new book. ''I don't know why they took me,'' he said of the exclusive club. ''I wouldn't take me.'' PAGE B1 
 ON THE RISE OF THE REST
 Fareed Zakaria writes in his new book, ''The Post-American World,'' that America remains a politico-military superpower, but ''in every other dimension -- industrial, financial, educational, social, cultural -- the distribution of power is shifting, moving away from American dominance.'' While many of his arguments echo those made by others, Michiko Kakutani writes, Mr. Zakaria offers the lay reader a provocative take that opens a big-picture window on the closing of the first American century. PAGE B1 
 MONEY MAKES PLOTS GO ROUND
 The two new plays at the center of the 11th annual Pacific Playwrights Festiva -- ''The Injured Party,'' by Richard Greenberg, and ''What They Have,'' by Kate Robin -- consider how far men and women will push themselves or each other to get the money for what they want. It is a theme ideally suited to the theater where the festival takes place: South Coast Repertory, in wealth-ridden, sunbaked Orange County, Calif. PAGE B1 
 Plans for Alice Tully Hall B3 
 Dublin's Festival of Dance B2 
 SPORTS
 IN A COLLEGE OUTFIELD,
 A Very Veteran Voice
 Forget Julio Franco. The oldest player in baseball was probably John Wilson, a 53-year-old outfielder for Division III Penn State-Altoona whose collegiate career came to a close over the weekend. ''He made this unbelievable catch in right, and some of the kids were teasing me that he should have been out there all along,'' his coach said. ''But I saw him today, a week later, and he said, 'I'm still sore.' '' Sports of The Times, Harvey Araton. PAGE C1 
 CLEMENS ISSUES A PUBLIC APOLOGY
 After a week in which he was publicly linked to women other than his wife, Roger Clemens issued a apology to fans for mistakes he made in his personal life. What those mistakes were, he did not say. ''I realize that many people want me to simply confess and apologize for the conduct that I have been accused of,'' Clemens said. ''But I cannot confess to, nor apologize for, things I did not do.'' PAGE C1 
 OBITUARIES
 TED KEY, 95
 A voluminous cartoonist, his comic strip about an independent-minded and impertinent maid named Hazel became a 1960s television series. Mr. Key was also an inventor of anthropomorphic animal characters, among them Mr. Peabody, the time-traveling professor who happened to be a dog, and his little boy sidekick, Sherman, created to fill out a half-hour cartoon show, ''Rocky and His Friends.'' PAGE C13 
 EDITORIAL
 DEATH BY DETENTION
 The system for immigration detention seems intended to sacrifice thoughtful deliberation and justice to expediency and swift deportation. PAGE A26
 GEORGIA, NATO AND MR. MEDVEDEV
 Russia is playing a game of cat-and-mouse with neighboring Georgia that, if everyone is not a lot more careful, could quickly turn deadly. PAGE A26
 FOOD EMERGENCY
 The developing world needs to establish its own ability to feed itself. For that to happen, American farmers will have to be weaned from American food aid. PAGE A26
 OP-ED
 DAVID BROOKS
 The fundamentals of the Barack Obama-Hillary Clinton race were on display on rival Sunday-morning talk shows. One candidate believes in the raw assertion of power, the other the power of communication. PAGE A27
 BOB HERBERT
 A rejuvenated G.I. Bill should be a no-brainer. But there is resistance from surprising quarters. PAGE A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); SOCCER (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); MEN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); SPORTS FANS (72%); SHOOTINGS (72%); SPORTS (72%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); DRUG POLICY (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (56%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (55%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (55%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (70%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); ENGLAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



171 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo Chief Says He Was Open to Deal

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE and MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
People involved in relationships that end abruptly often have grossly conflicting accounts of what went wrong. On Monday, Jerry Yang gave his version.
 In an interview, Mr. Yang, Yahoo's co-founder and chief executive, addressed Microsoft's surprise $44.6 billion bid to buy his company and the three-month corporate tussle that ensued. 
 He said he was open to selling Yahoo to Microsoft all along, but that Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, and his deal makers ultimately declined to negotiate and withdrew their proposal on Saturday with little explanation.
 ''They chose to walk away after we put a price on the table, and they didn't want to negotiate,'' Mr. Yang said. ''From my perspective, we were open all along to selling to Microsoft. We just feel Yahoo, either stand-alone or with Microsoft, is worth more than what they put on the table.'' 
 Mr. Yang's account conflicts with that of Microsoft's advisers and executives. They have said that they received no counteroffer from Yahoo for three months, after Microsoft's deadline to consummate the deal had expired. They also say that Mr. Yang and his board settled on a price of $37 a share and ultimately refused to budge.
 Microsoft had raised its initial bid to $33 a share when Mr. Yang and his co-founder, David Filo, met with Mr. Ballmer and other Microsoft executives at the Seattle airport on Saturday. After that meeting, Mr. Ballmer made public a letter to Mr. Yang withdrawing the offer. ''I am disappointed that Yahoo has not moved towards accepting our offer,'' he wrote.
 In the interview Monday, Mr. Yang and Roy Bostock, Yahoo's chairman, said that throughout the process they were open and receptive to a merger with Microsoft. Mr. Yang said that he spent personal time alone with Mr. Ballmer but that they were ultimately unable to bridge their differences.
 Mr. Yang also looked ahead to the daunting task of guiding Yahoo's growth as an independent company -- under heavy scrutiny. Mr. Yang -- who last June took control of the company he co-founded, acting after the departure of the prior chief, Terry Semel -- must now quickly demonstrate that Yahoo can increase its revenues and share price while navigating an online advertising industry that is quickly coming to be dominated by Google.
 ''I feel like we now have the task to continue to build shareholder value,'' he said. ''This is just creating another set of challenges we have to overcome as a company. We have to show the world the opportunity that we have been talking about for the last three months.''
 One immediate problem for Mr. Yang is frustration among shareholders -- including some of the largest ones. In reaction to the deal's collapse, Yahoo's stock fell almost 15 percent on Monday, to $24.47.
 ''I am extremely angry at Jerry Yang and at the so-called independent board,'' said Gordon Crawford, portfolio manager for Capital Research Global Investors, which owns 6 percent of Yahoo. The firm's parent company owns a total of 16 percent of Yahoo, making it the largest shareholder.
 Mr. Crawford questioned a statement from Mr. Bostock in which he said the company was pleased that so many shareholders had supported its position. 
 ''I would love to know who these shareholders are,'' Mr. Crawford said. ''It's none of the ones that I talked to today. Everybody I talked to would have sold their stock at $34.''
 ''I'm hoping that there is such an outpouring of outrage that the board is embarrassed into revisiting this thing,'' Mr. Crawford added, ''but I'm not optimistic about that.'' 
 Making Mr. Yang's job even harder is the recession's effect on the online advertising market and intense day-to-day scrutiny from Wall Street analysts and shareholders, who will view any more vague long-term plans from Yahoo's management team with skepticism.
 ''Yahoo is now in a position where it has to prove its worth quickly,'' said Derek Brown, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald & Company. ''It's as if there are many things happening behind the scenes that have given Yahoo management so much confidence. We need to see what those things are.''
 Mr. Yang argued that the Microsoft bid had opened up new doors for Yahoo. ''We feel Microsoft approaching us has created an opportunity for us to talk to just about anybody and everybody in the industry,'' he said. He said the company would do new deals ''in a way that ensures that it's the right thing to do for Yahoo, and not because of some time pressure.''
 One of those deals could be a tie-up with its chief rival, Google. In April,Yahoo conducted a two-week advertising test with Google, whereby Google served up its own more lucrative ads on 3 percent of Yahoo searches in the United States. The companies said the trial was successful and that they were exploring an extension of it, though some analysts say that could raise antitrust issues in Washington.
 ''Anything we might do with Google would allow us to maintain the ability to compete in what is important to us,'' Mr. Yang said. He declined to say whether Yahoo would pursue such a deal.
 Christa Quarles, an analyst at Thomas Weisel, said a deal with Google could have the long-term effect of strengthening Yahoo's largest rival. ''At the end of it you wouldn't have an alternative to Google,'' Ms. Quarles said. ''It would be thrust into the very powerful position of being the only real provisioner of paid search.''
 Yahoo might also consider tie-ups with AOL, a division of Time Warner, and MySpace, a division of News Corporation, though shareholders and analysts seem unenthusiastic about those options. Mr. Yang would not address speculation about those deals.
 He did want to address what he said was a misconception: that Yahoo executives celebrated the news of Microsoft's withdrawal and viewed it as a victory. ''I was not witness to any celebration, and we do not consider it a victory. I would have been personally very happy to do a deal with Microsoft,'' he said.
 Mr. Yang is now left without that deal -- at least if Microsoft is serious about going in another direction and closing this chapter in its history.
 At the very least, Mr. Yang has impressed some in the industry with his gumption in rejecting the most highly capitalized technology company on the planet.
 ''It's pretty bold to turn down a 70 percent premium,'' said Peter Falvey, managing director at Revolution Partners, a technology investment bank. ''Long term, do I think he should have taken it? Yes, I do. But he's obviously got guts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jerry Yang offered a different account from the one given by Microsoft's chief executive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MERGERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GOOGLE INC (51%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: JERRY YANG (93%); STEVEN A BALLMER (79%); DAVID FILO (58%); TERRY SEMEL (58%); ROY J BOSTOCK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (69%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



172 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: As Votes Near, a Fast Pace for Bill Clinton

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

DATELINE: NEW BERN, N.C. 

 BODY:
Former President Bill Clinton had no time on Monday for his usual leisurely hourlong sessions pressing the flesh on the rope line, or for a meandering speech that could run on just as long. 
 ''We are doing nine cities today,'' said Mr. Clinton, punching out each word as he surveyed the small crowd gathered on an airport tarmac here, just yards from where his private plane had landed minutes before. Less than an hour later, he was back on the plane, headed to Jacksonville, about 35 miles to the southwest. 
 This was Mr. Clinton in double time. In the last full day before the Democratic primary in North Carolina, the former president finished a two-day swing through the state at breakneck speed. 
 He delivered his stump speech on front porch after front porch, ticking off a laundry list of reasons to vote for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York. 
 On Sunday, after flying in from Indiana, Mr. Clinton spent the afternoon and evening in western North Carolina, in towns mostly populated by white, working-class voters who have fond memories of the economy under his presidency. On Monday, accompanied by Gov. Michael F. Easley of North Carolina and Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey, he took a quick trip east to coastal towns, with larger numbers of the black voters who form Senator Barack Obama's base. 
 The tightening race in North Carolina was illustrated by Mr. Clinton's rapid-fire delivery on the stump, as he shook his finger in the air to emphasize each point. ''Now, the reason you should support her on this,'' is how he would frequently begin. After that point was made, he would follow with, ''The next reason you ought to be for her is, she's got the best education program.'' 
 He scarcely paused to mention Mr. Obama, of Illinois, except when promoting the suspension of the federal gasoline tax this summer that Mrs. Clinton has proposed. Instead, he talked about schools, the economy and what he called her focus on the revival of rural towns.
 Mr. Clinton clearly felt his small front-porch rallies, previously staged in Indiana and Pennsylvania, were helping his wife make inroads with rural voters. 
 ''In every place in Pennsylvania where we held one of these front porch-rallies, Hillary got at least 60 percent of the vote,'' Mr. Clinton told a crowd in the eastern North Carolina town of Smithfield. ''So don't let me down here.''
 In New Bern, he suggested that a victory for Mrs. Clinton in the state's primary on Tuesday would tip the scales in her favor. ''If you will stay with her in North Carolina tomorrow, she will be the nominee, and she will be the president,'' he said. ''And you will always, always, be glad you did.''
 Mr. Clinton's frenetic schedule spared no time for the distractions that often crop up on the campaign trail. When a young woman collapsed from the heat at an event on Sunday afternoon in Marion, he did not stop speaking for a second. And when an elderly man fainted later that day at an outdoor event in Lenoir, the former president appeared visibly irritated at onlookers hovering over the fallen man. ''You folks don't make so much noise,'' he said into the microphone. 
 Yet voters in North Carolina appeared to warm to Mr. Clinton, watching him in intimate settings that were so unlike the huge rallies in auditoriums that Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle Obama, had often drawn. 
 Julian Arrington, 18, an architecture student at North Carolina State University, said he witnessed a line that went on for blocks outside a campus event for Mrs. Obama. 
 ''This is minuscule in comparison,'' Mr. Arrington said, looking around at the event in New Bern. ''But he's got this short, to-the-point speech. It's very practical, and with the Clintons, they tell you how they're going to get it done.''
 Patsy Bennett, a 59-year-old administrative assistant, said she was touched by Mr. Clinton's appeal on behalf of his wife.
 ''I'm pretty impressed with all his campaigning,'' Ms. Bennett said. ''He'd have to be extremely driven to do this for her.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Clinton after speaking on Monday in Elizabeth City, N.C., as he campaigned across the state for Hillary Rodham Clinton.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN FALLS/THE DAILY ADVANCE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); FUEL TAX (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); MIKE EASLEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JON CORZINE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



173 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Combat and Composure

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Life is short, but campaigns are long. And during the course of them, each candidate will have impressive and pathetic moments. But underlying the highs and lows, there are the fundamentals. The fundamentals of the Obama-Clinton race were on display Sunday morning. 
 Hillary Clinton went on ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos'' incarnating her role as the first Democratic Rambo. The Clinton campaign seems to want to reduce the entire race to one element: the supposed masculinity gap. And so everything she does is all about assertion, combat and Alpha dog dominance. 
 A few questions in, Clinton rose from her chair and loomed over Stephanopoulos. The country hasn't seen such a brazen display of attempted middle-aged physical intimidation since Al Gore took a walkabout on the debate stage with George Bush. It was like watching someone get elbowed in a dark alley by their homeroom teacher.
 But her attempt to take over the show was nothing compared with her attempt to dominate the truth. For the first 30 minutes, she did not utter a single candid word, including, as Mary McCarthy would say, ''and'' and ''the.''
 She peddled her sham gas-tax holiday and repeated her attempt to blame Indiana's job losses on outsourcing and Nafta. Stephanopoulos asked her to name a single economist who thinks a tax-holiday plan would work, and the daughter of Wellesley and Yale took the chance to shove the geeks into their lockers: ''I'm not going to put my lot in with economists.'' 
 When Stephanopoulos pointed out that Paul Krugman, a Times columnist, has raised doubts about the plan, Clinton lumped Krugman in with the Bush administration and said she wasn't going to listen to the people responsible for the last seven years. 
 This wasn't just shameless spin, it was shamelessness with a purpose. Clinton signaled that she wasn't going to concede even an inch to the vast elitist conspiracy. She wasn't going to feel guilty about ignoring the evidence. She was going to stomp on it, flay it and leave it a twisted mass of jelly quivering on the ground. She was going to perform the primordial duty of an alpha dog leader -- helping one's own. 
 Barack Obama gave off an entirely different vibe on ''Meet the Press.'' His campaign has been in the doldrums for the past few months. He's never come up with an explanation about how he would actually transform politics, and his conventional substance is beginning to overshadow his unconventional style. 
 But, as Sunday's contrast made clear, Obama still seems like a human being. He still seems to return each night to some zone of normalcy where personal reflection lives. He wasn't fully candid when answering questions about the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, but there are some inner guardrails that prevent the spin from drifting too far from the truth. Thoughtful and conversational, he doesn't seem to possess the trait that Clinton has: automatically assuming that critics are always wrong.
 Obama still possesses his talent for homeostasis, the ability to return to emotional balance and calm, even amid hysteria. His astounding composure has come across as weakness in the midst of combat with Clinton, but it's also at the core of his promise to change politics. He vows to calm hatred and heal division.
 This contrast between combat and composure defines the Democratic race. The implicit Clinton argument is that politics is an inherently nasty business. Human nature, as she said Sunday, means that progress comes only through conquest. You'd better elect a leader who can intimidate. You'd better elect someone who has given herself permission to be brutal. 
 Obama's campaign grows out of the longstanding reform tradition. His implicit argument is that politics doesn't have to be this way. Dishonesty and brutality aren't inevitable; they're what gets in the way. Obama's friend and supporter Cass Sunstein described the Obama ideal in The New Republic: ''Obama believes that real change usually requires consensus, learning and accommodation.''
 That's regarded as naive drivel in parts of Camp Clinton.
 Campaign issues come and go, but this is a thread running through the race. One believes in the raw assertion of power, the other the power of communication.
 They are imperfect messengers for their creeds. Clinton rails against ''Wall Street money-grubbers,'' but her policies are often drawn from the Wall Street wing of the party. Obama talks about postpartisan compromise in the abstract, but rarely in the particular.
 Still, amid the storms of the presidency, their basic worldviews would shape their presidencies. Obama is instinctively a conversationalist and community-mobilizer. Clinton, as she says, will fight and fight. If elected, she'll have the power to take the Hobbesian struggle she perceives, and turn it into remorseless reality. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The column by David Brooks on Tuesday included a widely reported but incorrectly transcribed phrase attributed to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. In discussing the economy during a speech, Mrs. Clinton mentioned ''Wall Street money brokers.'' She did not use the phrase ''money grubbers.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (76%); FUEL TAX (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); AL GORE (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



174 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Urges Flexibility In Mortgage Regulation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, urged Congress on Monday to allow federal agencies more leeway in overseeing the ailing mortgage industry, emphasizing that the causes of the current foreclosure crisis were more difficult to address than those in the past. 
 ''Realistic public and private sector policies must take into account the fact that traditional foreclosure avoidance strategies may not always work well in the current environment,'' Mr. Bernanke said at a Columbia Business School event at the Waldorf-Astoria in Midtown Manhattan. 
 In a 10-page speech, Mr. Bernanke said that some regions of the country -- including California, Florida, Colorado and parts of the Midwest -- have experienced sharp increases in the number of homeowners who are delinquent on their mortgages, despite data that does not reveal the classic causes of foreclosures, like higher unemployment rates.
 Instead, much of the problem can be attributed to a decline in home prices, which, Mr. Bernanke said, can ''reduce the ability and incentive of homeowners, particularly those under financial stress for other reasons, to retain their homes.''
 A high concentration of speculators and owners of second homes, who may have less incentive to hold onto their property, also contributes to more delinquencies, Mr. Bernanke said.
 The variety of factors leading to foreclosures makes it more difficult for mortgage lenders to help ailing homeowners, Mr. Bernanke said, noting that ''lenders and services will have to develop new and flexible strategies to deal with this issue.''
 In response, Mr. Bernanke recommended that government agencies take a more innovative approach to ensure that only qualified buyers take out loans. He urged Congress to provide the Federal Housing Administration, which insures mortgage loans, with ''greater latitude'' in setting appropriate standards for owners seeking to refinance their mortgages, and to adjust interest rates according to the level of risk of the applicants. 
 It was this system that went awry in the subprime mortgage crisis, the root of the current economic turmoil. In many cases, mortgages were given to owners who could not afford to repay them, resulting in a wave of foreclosures. 
 Mr. Bernanke also called for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the big mortgage financiers supervised by the government, to raise more money to help assist homeowners at risk of foreclosure. 
 He warned that the rising foreclosure rate, if left unchecked, would harm the broader economy. 
 ''The costs of foreclosure may extend well beyond those borne directly by the borrower and the lender,'' Mr. Bernanke said. He said that a rise in foreclosures adds to sagging inventories and can weigh down home prices, which hurts household worth and, ultimately, the health of Wall Street's biggest banks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); HOME PRICES (88%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



175 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 523 words

 BODY:
CAN GOOD DEAL FOR GOOGLE... Google played a huge role in breaking up any possible marriage of Microsoft and Yahoo when it agreed to offer a partnership to Yahoo. But if Yahoo goes through with the deal, the winner will be Google. 
 ...BE BAD FOR YAHOO'S C.E.O.?Jerry Yang, below, the chief executive of Yahoo, faces enormous pressure to increase Yahoo's stock price into the range of the takeover offers from Microsoft that he rejected. Yahoo dropped $4.20 on Monday to close at $24.47. [C1.]
 A reputation tarnished The reputation of Steven A. Ballmer and his merry band at Microsoft has taken a hit after Microsoft's failed deal for Yahoo. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.]
 NEW MORTGAGE WORRY Bush administration officials are concerned about what the effects of another decline in home prices would be on big mortgage financiers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.[A1.]
 DEPARTURE AT RANDOM HOUSEPeter W. Olson, the chief executive of Random House, will step down in the next few weeks after the company's poor performance. [C1.] 
 COUNTRYWIDE SHARES FALL Shares of Countrywide Financial dropped after Bank of America said it was rethinking the terms of its offer to buy the lender. Market Place. [C1.]
 HARD TIMES FOR LAS VEGAS In Las Vegas, gambling revenue and hotel occupancy are down, scores have been laid off and casinos' stock prices have plummeted since October. [C1.]
 STRIKE AT CHEVY MALIBU PLANTGeneral Motors workers who build the Chevrolet Malibu, one of G.M.'s most popular and crucial new vehicles, are on strike at a plant in Kansas. [C5.] 
 SOFTWARE FOR HYUNDAI Microsoft is expected to announce that it will develop a version of its Windows Auto software for the Hyundai-Kia Automotive Group. [C8.]
 CALL TO EASE OVERSIGHTBen S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has urged Congress to allow federal agencies more leeway in overseeing the ailing mortgage industry. [C5.]
 WELCOMING A POSSIBLE MERGER The prospect that United and US Airways might combine pleases Gary C. Kelly, the chief executive of Southwest Airlines, who sees the possible merger as an advantage for his company. [C3.]
 WI-FI FOR TRAVELERS Travelers want free Web service everywhere. Hotels, coffee shops, and airports want to find a way to pay for offering the service. There is middle ground. [C6.] 
 READ THE FINE PRINT Depending on where you are traveling, the fine print on your car rental contract is worth reading should you ever get a traffic ticket. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C6.] 
 COMPENSATION ADVICE Aflac, the big insurer, is the first American company to give shareholders a voice on pay. [C3.] 
 OIL PRICE TOUCHES $120 Oil futures have surged to a new trading record above $120 a barrel, raising concerns about higher prices for gasoline, goods and services in the economy. It settled at $119.97, up $3.65. [C10.]
 Wall Street had a down day after Microsoft decided to withdraw its bid for Yahoo and oil prices rose to a new record. [C10.]
 ALTERING THE CAMPAIGN The tourism marketing campaign, ''I love New York'' is being updated with significant shifts in what the ads will say as well as where they will appear. [C3.] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MERGERS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); FUTURES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); AIRPORTS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); GAMING (70%); STRIKES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); LAYOFFS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (65%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (60%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); GOOGLE INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); HYUNDAI KIA AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (52%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (52%); AFLAC INC (50%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); LUV (NYSE) (52%); LCC (NYSE) (52%); AFL (NYSE) (50%); 8686 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: GARY C KELLY (79%); JERRY YANG (58%); BEN BERNANKE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



176 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: At a Festival of New Plays, Money Makes Two Plots Go Round

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

DATELINE: COSTA MESA, Calif. 

 BODY:
With the possible exception of a few hedge fund billionaires, is anyone in America not worried about money, as the stock market settles into a state of permanent hysteria, the economy lumbers, and the cost of living leaps?
 So the two new plays at the center of the 11th annual Pacific Playwrights Festival here opened in a naturally sympathetic atmosphere. Both ''The Injured Party,'' by Richard Greenberg, and ''What They Have,'' by Kate Robin, consider how far men and women will push themselves -- or each other -- to get the money for what they want (or what they think they need), whether it is a house in the country or the medical treatment necessary to conceive a child. 
The theme is ideally suited to the first-class regional theater that hosts the festival. South Coast Repertory is in wealth-ridden, sun-baked Orange County, south of Los Angeles, now memorialized in pop culture as home to the mesmerizingly vapid, semi-fictional young people of MTV's ''Laguna Beach'' (and of course their fully fictional counterparts on the ''The OC,'' now terminated). The theater sits across a wide boulevard from a glistening, high-end mall roughly the size of the West Village, a gargantuan symbol of the supremacy of commerce in American culture.
 But under the guidance of the founding artistic directors Martin Benson and David Emmes, South Coast Rep has been flying a big, bright flag for art for more than four decades. The theater has long been one of the most steadfast and prolific producers of new American plays. More than 50 works first presented in some form at the 10 previous Pacific Playwrights Festivals were subsequently seen elsewhere.
 The list includes Lynn Nottage's ''Intimate Apparel'' (a New York Drama Critics Circle award winner), Rolin Jones's ''Intelligent Design of Jenny Chow'' and two Pulitzer Prize winners, Nilo Cruz's ''Anna in the Tropics'' and David Lindsay-Abaire's ''Rabbit Hole.'' South Coast Rep commissions and produces more plays during its annual subscription seasons, and did so before the festival's inception.
 This year the festival presented two full productions (the plays by Mr. Greenberg and Ms. Robin), one fully staged workshop production and four readings, all with top-flight casts and experienced directors. On the eve of the festival Mr. Benson and Mr. Emmes received the Margo Jones Medal for their careers in the theater, an honor they certainly deserve.
 Ms. Robin's ''What They Have,'' the better of the festival's two plays about money and art and artists without money, is a repartee-rich variation on a popular genre, the urban-couple-in-crisis play. (''Dinner With Friends,'' Donald Margulies's Pulitzer Prize winner, is the standard model.) Set in contemporary Los Angeles, the play explores the emotional strains that the decision to have a child -- or the inability to have one -- can put on married couples during the years when a pregnancy can be a tense and potentially traumatic experience, not to mention an expensive one. More broadly, it asks how we get what we want out of life, and how we learn to stop wanting it if we can't get it. (The popular self-help program ''The Secret,'' which insists that the fault is not in our stars but in ourselves, is practically a supporting character.)
 Suzanne (Nancy Bell) and Matt (Kevin Rahm) have just experienced a third miscarriage. The wounds are still fresh when they spend an evening with their friends Connie (Marin Hinkle) and Jonas (Matt Letscher), catching up and arguing about the follies of American culture. (Connie and Jonas are rabid reality TV watchers -- with irony, of course. Suzanne and Matt don't have a television -- with piety, of course.) 
 The two couples' financial fortunes have radically diverged. Connie is a successful movie producer, and Jonas has created a hit television show. They casually disparage the culture they work in (Jonas wanted to be a novelist), but they can reward themselves for enduring the humiliation of compromise by buying lots of nice things. Connie has recently become pregnant, almost by accident, their focus having been their consuming careers.
 This galls Matt, who resents his friends' success, as less successful friends so naturally do, and scorns them as sellouts. A musician who never made it, Matt comforts himself with his integrity while earning pennies teaching music to grade schoolers. Suzanne makes a decent living selling her paintings, but she and Matt cannot afford expensive fertility treatments, a frustration that has her searching for larger, spiritual reasons for her childlessness (hence the DVD of ''The Secret'') and needling Matt to get off his aesthetic high horse and exploit their friendship with Connie and Jonas for another crack at worldly success. 
 Ms. Robin wrote for HBO's popular ''Six Feet Under,'' and like many playwrights who also work in television, she can produce reams of chatty, entertaining dialogue for characters that audiences will find cozily familiar. ''What They Have'' is also sensitive and smart in its analysis of the shifting emotional dynamics both between couples and within them.
 Unfortunately, also like many playwrights who work in television, Ms. Robin is less adept at dramatic structure. ''What They Have,'' directed by Chris Fields, is enervatingly inert. Most of the scenes are duologues in which a bone of contention is at first awkwardly ignored, then acknowledged, then gnawed at excessive length. The lack of a strong narrative thrust would be less inhibiting if each scene were shrewdly and ruthlessly edited. (The play is heavy on pop-culture one-liners.)
 Still, ''What They Have'' is marked by a sincerity and a probing honesty about the way people live today that is painfully absent from ''The Injured Party,'' yet another disappointing play by Mr. Greenberg, this time a comedy about a frustrated would-be artist, a gay New Yorker who contemplates solving his problems by bumping off his grandmother. 
 Not kidding, I'm afraid. The peevish Seth Sutter (Reg Rogers) spends the first third of the play spewing bile about his fabulously wealthy grandmother Maxene (Cynthia Harris); the next third plotting her murder (in fantasy) and neglecting her to the point of fatal grief (for real); the final third wallowing in self-hatred at his callousness -- having inherited a big chunk of change. At no point does he emerge as a sympathetic, credible or even distinct character. 
 Mr. Greenberg has become increasingly prolific since he won a Tony Award for the gay-baseball-player comedy ''Take Me Out,'' churning out plays that always receive first-class productions but increasingly fail to merit them. ''The Injured Party'' is derivative both of Mr. Greenberg's own work (''Hurrah at Last'') and of New York-set comedies about Jewish families like Charles Busch's ''Tale of the Allergist's Wife.'' Aimless and shoddily structured, it is among Mr. Greenberg's most ineffectual plays, lacking the conviction to take the leap into absurdity or the focus for sharp satire.
 The other plays at the festival, not officially open to critical assessment, were familiar in style, substance or both, and of varying degrees of accomplishment. It seems probable that most will have some future life on the regional circuit. (That's faint praise; too many new American plays are sentimental, blandly pseudo-literary or unadventurous -- flaws exhibited by one or another of the works here.)
 But the sour aftertaste left behind by ''The Injured Party'' was dispelled entirely on Sunday morning, when the festival drew to a close with a reading of Amy Freed's ''You, Nero,'' an uproarious comedy set during the declining years of the Roman Empire. Even in a bare-bones staged reading -- a format hardly congenial to a broad, bawdy gagfest -- Ms. Freed's play delighted almost from start to finish. 
 A spoof of theater through the ages -- from Sophocles to ''A Chorus Line'' -- ''You, Nero'' makes lively sport of contemporary American culture, as Ms. Freed imagines the mincing Nero (a magnificent Danny Scheie -- but Nathan Lane might want to call his agent now) commissioning an image-primping pageant from a down-on-his-luck dramatist. Nero has banished tragedy, preferring fancy spectacles and saliva-generating gore-fests.
 The slams at the puerile appeal of popular movies and television are predictable but still enjoyable, the theatrical in-jokes silly but inspired. Indeed, Ms. Freed's gloriously funny play is its own argument for the continued viability of an endangered species, the stage comedy. I'm tempted to quote at length, but the play's delirious charm would surely fizzle in sober newsprint. 
 For evidence of its irresistible appeal I'll just report that the audience staggered out into the sunny spring afternoon with stomachs sore from laughter, and that I await a New York production with unusual relish. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Danny Scheie, left, and Erik Sorensen performing in a staged reading of the comedy ''You, Nero,'' by Amy Freed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY WEISER/SCR)
 Nancy Bell and Kevin Rahm in ''What TheyHave,'' by Kate Robin.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRY DIROCCO/SCR)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); COST OF LIVING (77%); WRITERS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); LINGERIE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010



177 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: In Dublin, Seeing Irish Dance of a Different Sort

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

 BODY:
DUBLIN -- As the Dublin Dance Festival came to an end last weekend after 16 days packed with local and international work, two audience members weighed in. ''It's O.K., this stuff -- different,'' one said, after a performance featuring Irish choreographers.
 The other said, ''Who knew?''
For more than a decade the conjunction of the words ''dance'' and ''Ireland'' has meant only one thing to the world: ''Riverdance,'' with its foot-drumming, regimented cast of thousands. But while there is plenty of other dance in Ireland, much of it is little known internationally and ill supported by local audiences, who have had relatively infrequent exposure to touring companies and varying aesthetics. 
 Founded in 2002 (as the biennial International Dance Festival Ireland), the Dublin Dance Festival has, from the outset, presented prestigious international companies and plenty of local work. But the event hasn't registered strongly on the dance world. This is something that Irish culture mavens hope will change with the appointment of Laurie Uprichard, the well-regarded former executive director of Danspace in New York City, as its artistic director.
 The 2008 edition, which opened on April 17 with the Forsythe Company, and ended on Saturday with Tere O'Connor's ''Rammed Earth,'' is the first year of the newly named and newly annual festival. It's also the first indication of what Ms. Uprichard might do with the festival after a 15-year tenure at Danspace, where she was much beloved for her unwavering support of experimental work and her presentation of little-known European groups. 
 What her first program suggests is that she is likely to avoid the formulaic presentation of big European names that many dance festivals on the continent espouse. This year the festival presented 24 artists or companies from 14 countries, with a sprinkling of famous troupes (the Forsythe Company, Ballet Preljocaj), but also many other lesser-known artists (Betontac from Slovenia, Kitt Johnson from Denmark, Reykjavik Dance from Iceland). Many of the participants have appeared at Danspace, including the New Yorkers Sarah Skaggs and Risa Jaroslow, but Ms. Uprichard has obviously been careful to also place a fair amount of emphasis on local artists. In addition to two showcases for Irish choreographers were Jenny Roche's program of solos (by John Jasperse, Jodi Melnick and Liz Roche), and Colin Dunne's ''Out of Time,'' a contemporary take on traditional Irish dance that drew glowing reports.
 ''One of the missions of the festival is to nurture Irish work,'' Ms. Uprichard said. ''I took that very seriously. The one thing I can do for artists here is make introductions. We had 21 international presenters here this year. I'm very conscious of not having only Americans.''
 Ms. Uprichard, a tall, willowy woman with a low-key manner, accepted the job a year ago and moved to Dublin in July. She is of Irish descent and said that she had always been curious about dance in Ireland. ''I wanted to live in Europe,'' she said over breakfast at the Avoca Cafe, in the busy center of town here. ''I had been at Danspace for 15 years, and the problems at a place like that are like the problems of the church: nothing changes. When this came up, it just seemed right.''
 Until Ms. Uprichard took the job, the festival had been directed by its Irish founder, Catherine Nunes, who had worked at Dance Umbrella in London, and by its general manager, Marina Rafter. Ms. Nunes began to work on creating the festival in 1997, at a time when a few small Irish dance groups existed but remained largely isolated from the international dance community.
 That had been the case for almost a decade, said John Scott, who founded the Irish Modern Dance Theater in 1991. ''In 1989 the Irish Arts Council cut the funding of the Irish National Ballet, Dublin City Ballet and the Dublin Contemporary Dance Theater, and most good dancers emigrated to train or work abroad,'' he said.
 Mr. Scott, who has been an advocate for international collaboration, stayed in Dublin, and together with a few others started the annual ''New Music/New Dance.'' Out of that emerged several now-established companies: Mr. Scott's own, Dance Theater of Ireland and Coisceim Dance Theater, among others. But a continued lack of financing and infrequent performances meant that dance in Ireland remained underdeveloped throughout the '90s, a strange situation given Dublin's status as the 1991 European cultural capital, and the country's economic boom.
 Perhaps it was for these reasons that the Irish Arts Council provided funds for a new dance festival. But it was also, Mr. Scott said, because of the sheer persistence of Ms. Nunes, who compiled a report on the state of dance in the country and formed a lobbying group of choreographers and cultural figures. And a change in the Arts Council's approach to dance does seem to have come about, evident in the new Dance House, a gleaming, light-filled building that provides inexpensive or free working space to choreographers that is the site for the ''Re-Presenting Ireland'' series.
 ''The festival has made a huge difference to the dance climate here, and so has this building,'' said Ms. Roche, one of the participating Irish choreographers. ''We have a huge theater and literary tradition in Ireland, and the spoken word has always ruled the roost. It's how people understand a theatrical experience; abstract movement is simply not part of that. The body is not celebrated in Irish culture. There is a sensuality and expressivity in a full physicality that isn't really acceptable here. To see Forsythe or Mark Morris at the Abbey Theater is important for that reason.''
 Despite a briefer-than-usual planning period, Ms. Uprichard said that, with help, she was able to program this festival as she wished, and that it already serves as a model of her intentions. (Her budget, around 67 percent of which is provided by the Arts Council, is fairly modest by European festival standards; about $1,067,000 this year, a slight increase from $999,000 in 2006.) 
 And Ms. Uprichard already has plans for next year. She said that she would like to commission new work and have ''something of a theme'' for the festival. And where many might be happy to move from an American cultural climate, in which the state provides almost no money to the arts, to a quite different situation in Europe, she has ambitions of building philanthropic support. (Rolex was a sponsor this year.)
 Ah, raising money. Ms. Uprichard may have left New York, but its imperatives clearly haven't left her. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Kitt Johnson's ''Rankefod''
above, Ballet Preljocaj's ''Empty Moves, I and II''
at left, Laurie Uprichard, the festival'sartistic director.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MORTEN ABRAHAMSEN
J C CARBONNE
 ALAN ROCHE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); BALLET (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) IRELAND (95%); ICELAND (87%); UNITED STATES (70%); SLOVENIA (70%); DENMARK (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



178 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: States Get In on the Calls for a Gas Tax Holiday

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Reporting was contributed by Bob Driehaus in Cincinnati, Malcolm Gay in St. Louis, Brenda Goodman in Atlanta, Jonathan Higuera in Phoenix and Janet Roberts in New York.

 BODY:
SLOCOMB, Ala. -- Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida has been fighting to cut 10 cents from the state's gasoline tax for two weeks in July. Lawmakers in Missouri, New York and Texas have also proposed a summer break from state gas taxes, while candidates for governor in Indiana and North Carolina are sparring over relief ideas of their own.
 If experience with such gas tax ''holidays'' is any guide, drivers would save less than politicians suggest. But that is not necessarily the point.
 ''It's about trying to serve the people and trying to understand and have caring, compassionate hearts for what they're dealing with at the kitchen table,'' said Mr. Crist, a Republican. 
 He added, ''I'm supposed to respond to the people and try to make them happy.''
 Rising frustration with gas prices has led two presidential candidates, Senators John McCain and Hillary Rodham Clinton, to promote proposals to suspend the federal gas tax from Memorial Day to Labor Day. 
 But state gas taxes, which run as high as 45.5 cents a gallon, often add far more to the price of gas than the 18.4-cent federal excise tax and are the primary cause of price disparities across state lines. So lawmakers and candidates at the state level have been getting into the act.
 The response speaks not just to the reality of skyrocketing gas prices. It also highlights the political potency of anything that affects Americans' bonds with their cars. Gas is a product that no one can ignore -- and one that inspires intense emotion. 
 ''It clearly evokes a visceral response because we're the only industry that has our prices in two-foot-high letters on the street corner,'' said John Felmy, chief economist at the American Petroleum Institute. ''We've seen other things go up in prices, like milk, but if you ask 10 people on the street what's the price of milk they may not know. All of them will know the price of gas.'' 
 The gut-level frustration is especially visible at gas stations near borders between states with wide differences in gas taxes. The pumps here have the feel of a discount store, flush with bargain hunters and families on the edge of an economic precipice. 
 At two gas stations in southern Alabama, at least half the cars were from Florida, where gas taxes are 13 cents higher. A similar flow of California drivers appeared last week at gas stations in Yuma, Ariz., where gas can be more than 70 cents cheaper a gallon.
 Many said that in the last few months, they had reached a breaking point with gas prices that had forced them to change their lifestyle. 
 Rebecca Laster, a mother of four from Campbellton, Fla., near the Alabama line, said she now stayed near her children's school after dropping them off to avoid a second trip. 
 ''Gas takes up a majority of what I spend,'' Mrs. Laster said after putting $40 worth of gas in the tank of her minivan. Referring to politicians, she said: ''I don't think they know what it's like to count every penny. They've never been in that position.''
 Economic studies have shown that high gas prices disproportionately affect lower-middle-class Americans like Mrs. Laster, whose family lives on her husband's salary from McDonald's. And these appear to be the voters politicians are trying to appeal to. 
 One of the Democratic presidential candidates, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, has criticized the gas tax holiday as a gimmick, saying it would save drivers little money.
 But his Democratic rival, Mrs. Clinton, and Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, have defended their plans with emotional appeals. A recent Clinton advertisement highlighting her support for a summer gas tax suspension ends with a raspy, apparently working-class narrator saying: ''People are hurting. It's time for a president who's ready to take action, now.''
 Suspending federal and state gas taxes, however, would not necessarily lead to a commensurate drop in prices. 
 Since 2000, four states have enacted gas tax holidays: Florida, Georgia, Illinois and Indiana. In general, retailers did not pass on all of the intended savings. 
 When Illinois and Indiana suspended about 7 cents of their state gas taxes in the summer of 2000, prices fell by an average of only 4 cents, according to a study by the American Road and Transportation Builders Association, which opposed the plans. Drivers saved no more than $2.50 a month, while each state lost tens of millions of dollars in tax revenue. 
 Previous gas tax holidays caused other problems, too. During the last gas tax suspension in Florida in 2004, people hoarded gasoline, driving up demand and prices. 
 It is not clear how the new proposals would prevent such unintended consequences. Texas lawmakers are not in session, so their ideas have been limited to public calls for relief. 
 The draft measures in Florida, Missouri and New York do not require retailers to pass on the tax suspension to consumers, nor are there provisions to prevent hoarding. 
 The New York plan, sponsored by Republicans in the State Senate, would suspend three state gas taxes, amounting to about 32 cents per gallon, from Memorial Day to Labor Day. 
 The Florida plan would create a tax holiday around July 4, cutting 10 cents per gallon off the 33.2 cents in total state gas taxes. 
 In Missouri, meanwhile, State Representative Jim Lembke, Republican of St. Louis, has sponsored a more novel approach to suspending the state's 17.6-cent gas tax: drivers would turn in their receipts at the end of the summer and the state would cut them a rebate check.
 Last week, the Missouri bill gained initial approval in the House; it has yet to be taken up in the Senate. The New York proposal has yet to pass. And the Florida plan failed in the Legislature on Friday, but Mr. Crist said he would like to revive it. 
 In North Carolina, the Republican candidate for governor is proposing a gas tax holiday and permanent reduction, while in Indiana the candidates for governor are debating ways to cap or reduce the growth of the tax, which rises with gas prices. 
 All of these plans come as other states resist letting go of gas tax revenue, which typically finances road construction and maintenance. 
 Minnesota's Legislature, after the deadly bridge collapse in Minneapolis last August, enacted a law this year raising its gas tax by 5.5 cents per gallon, to be phased in through October. 
 And Georgia, which briefly shelved its gas tax after Hurricane Katrina, has no plans for a sequel. Instead, Gov. Sonny Perdue, a Republican, has pushed to expand state bus service and is relying on new tax incentives for telecommuting that give people ''the option not to buy gas,'' said Bert Brantley, his spokesman. 
 At gas stations here in Alabama and across the country, support for the tax suspension plans was tepid. Echoing the findings of a recent New York Times poll, most described the proposals as obvious electioneering.
 ''It's just politics,'' said J. Vincent Schmidt, 23, of Panama City, Fla. ''If they take the taxes away on gas, they'll probably find someplace else to stick it in.''
 Several drivers, even in Republican strongholds, blamed President Bush for high gasoline prices because of his support for oil companies and the war in Iraq. Others suggested consumer sacrifices like a return to the national speed limit of 55 miles per hour, which would conserve gas but have little immediate impact on prices.
 ''We're overweight drivers,'' said Mike Brinkley, 58, of Fairview Heights, Ill., who drives about 12 miles out of his way to get cheaper gas in Missouri. ''We need to trim the fat.''
 Few seemed soothed by the prospect of saving a few cents per gallon over the summer. 
 Mrs. Laster, after filling up in Alabama, said the plans would probably not cause enough of a price drop to ease her financial anxiety. Or would it? 
 Jeff Hamilton, the owner of a small gas station in Graceville, Fla., just a few miles away, said that when it came to gas, Americans did not necessarily behave rationally. A few pennies at the pump can mean a lot.
 ''It's all psychological,'' Mr. Hamilton said. ''People don't understand that if they drive a few miles to get gas that's a little bit cheaper, they lose money.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Smith of Fairview Heights, Ill., filled up in St. Louis for nearly 25 cents less per gallon.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A25) GRAPHIC: Price Disparities at the Pump: With soaring gasoline prices, lawmakers in some states have proposed suspending the state gas tax during the summer driving season. Many of the disparities in gas prices are caused by differences in state gas taxes, a substantial component of the retail price. But even if each state were to give a summer break on its gas tax, which is unlikely, the savings for the average driver would be minimal. The Times calculated the estimated savings for the entire summer using the state gas tax, the number of drivers and the average amount of gasoline sold in each state in June, July and August.(Sources: gasbuddy.com
Energy Information Administration
Federal Highway Administration
 American Petroleum Institute) (GRAPHIC BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL TAX (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GAS STATIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); US LABOR DAY (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); MILK (73%); FAMILY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YUMA, AZ, USA (71%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010



179 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: States Get In on the Calls for a Gas Tax Holiday

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Reporting was contributed by Bob Driehaus in Cincinnati, Malcolm Gay in St. Louis, Brenda Goodman in Atlanta, Jonathan Higuera in Phoenix and Janet Roberts in New York.

 BODY:
SLOCOMB, Ala. -- Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida has been fighting to cut 10 cents from the state's gasoline tax for two weeks in July. Lawmakers in Missouri, New York and Texas have also proposed a summer break from state gas taxes, while candidates for governor in Indiana and North Carolina are sparring over relief ideas of their own.
 If experience with such gas tax ''holidays'' is any guide, drivers would save less than politicians suggest. But that is not necessarily the point.
 ''It's about trying to serve the people and trying to understand and have caring, compassionate hearts for what they're dealing with at the kitchen table,'' said Mr. Crist, a Republican. 
 He added, ''I'm supposed to respond to the people and try to make them happy.''
 Rising frustration with gas prices has led two presidential candidates, Senators John McCain and Hillary Rodham Clinton, to promote proposals to suspend the federal gas tax from Memorial Day to Labor Day. 
 But state gas taxes, which run as high as 45.5 cents a gallon, often add far more to the price of gas than the 18.4-cent federal excise tax and are the primary cause of price disparities across state lines. So lawmakers and candidates at the state level have been getting into the act.
 The response speaks not just to the reality of skyrocketing gas prices. It also highlights the political potency of anything that affects Americans' bonds with their cars. Gas is a product that no one can ignore -- and one that inspires intense emotion. 
 ''It clearly evokes a visceral response because we're the only industry that has our prices in two-foot-high letters on the street corner,'' said John Felmy, chief economist at the American Petroleum Institute. ''We've seen other things go up in prices, like milk, but if you ask 10 people on the street what's the price of milk they may not know. All of them will know the price of gas.'' 
 The gut-level frustration is especially visible at gas stations near borders between states with wide differences in gas taxes. The pumps here have the feel of a discount store, flush with bargain hunters and families on the edge of an economic precipice. 
 At two gas stations in southern Alabama, at least half the cars were from Florida, where gas taxes are 13 cents higher. A similar flow of California drivers appeared last week at gas stations in Yuma, Ariz., where gas can be more than 70 cents cheaper a gallon.
 Many said that in the last few months, they had reached a breaking point with gas prices that had forced them to change their lifestyle. 
 Rebecca Laster, a mother of four from Campbellton, Fla., near the Alabama line, said she now stayed near her children's school after dropping them off to avoid a second trip. 
 ''Gas takes up a majority of what I spend,'' Mrs. Laster said after putting $40 worth of gas in the tank of her minivan. Referring to politicians, she said: ''I don't think they know what it's like to count every penny. They've never been in that position.''
 Economic studies have shown that high gas prices disproportionately affect lower-middle-class Americans like Mrs. Laster, whose family lives on her husband's salary from McDonald's. And these appear to be the voters politicians are trying to appeal to. 
 One of the Democratic presidential candidates, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, has criticized the gas tax holiday as a gimmick, saying it would save drivers little money.
 But his Democratic rival, Mrs. Clinton, and Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, have defended their plans with emotional appeals. A recent Clinton advertisement highlighting her support for a summer gas tax suspension ends with a raspy, apparently working-class narrator saying: ''People are hurting. It's time for a president who's ready to take action, now.''
 Suspending federal and state gas taxes, however, would not necessarily lead to a commensurate drop in prices. 
 Since 2000, four states have enacted gas tax holidays: Florida, Georgia, Illinois and Indiana. In general, retailers did not pass on all of the intended savings. 
 When Illinois and Indiana suspended about 7 cents of their state gas taxes in the summer of 2000, prices fell by an average of only 4 cents, according to a study by the American Road and Transportation Builders Association, which opposed the plans. Drivers saved no more than $2.50 a month, while each state lost tens of millions of dollars in tax revenue. 
 Previous gas tax holidays caused other problems, too. During the last gas tax suspension in Florida in 2004, people hoarded gasoline, driving up demand and prices. 
 It is not clear how the new proposals would prevent such unintended consequences. Texas lawmakers are not in session, so their ideas have been limited to public calls for relief. 
 The draft measures in Florida, Missouri and New York do not require retailers to pass on the tax suspension to consumers, nor are there provisions to prevent hoarding. 
 The New York plan, sponsored by Republicans in the State Senate, would suspend three state gas taxes, amounting to about 32 cents per gallon, from Memorial Day to Labor Day. 
 The Florida plan would create a tax holiday around July 4, cutting 10 cents per gallon off the 33.2 cents in total state gas taxes. 
 In Missouri, meanwhile, State Representative Jim Lembke, Republican of St. Louis, has sponsored a more novel approach to suspending the state's 17.6-cent gas tax: drivers would turn in their receipts at the end of the summer and the state would cut them a rebate check.
 Last week, the Missouri bill gained initial approval in the House; it has yet to be taken up in the Senate. The New York proposal has yet to pass. And the Florida plan failed in the Legislature on Friday, but Mr. Crist said he would like to revive it. 
 In North Carolina, the Republican candidate for governor is proposing a gas tax holiday and permanent reduction, while in Indiana the candidates for governor are debating ways to cap or reduce the growth of the tax, which rises with gas prices. 
 All of these plans come as other states resist letting go of gas tax revenue, which typically finances road construction and maintenance. 
 Minnesota's Legislature, after the deadly bridge collapse in Minneapolis last August, enacted a law this year raising its gas tax by 5.5 cents per gallon, to be phased in through October. 
 And Georgia, which briefly shelved its gas tax after Hurricane Katrina, has no plans for a sequel. Instead, Gov. Sonny Perdue, a Republican, has pushed to expand state bus service and is relying on new tax incentives for telecommuting that give people ''the option not to buy gas,'' said Bert Brantley, his spokesman. 
 At gas stations here in Alabama and across the country, support for the tax suspension plans was tepid. Echoing the findings of a recent New York Times poll, most described the proposals as obvious electioneering.
 ''It's just politics,'' said J. Vincent Schmidt, 23, of Panama City, Fla. ''If they take the taxes away on gas, they'll probably find someplace else to stick it in.''
 Several drivers, even in Republican strongholds, blamed President Bush for high gasoline prices because of his support for oil companies and the war in Iraq. Others suggested consumer sacrifices like a return to the national speed limit of 55 miles per hour, which would conserve gas but have little immediate impact on prices.
 ''We're overweight drivers,'' said Mike Brinkley, 58, of Fairview Heights, Ill., who drives about 12 miles out of his way to get cheaper gas in Missouri. ''We need to trim the fat.''
 Few seemed soothed by the prospect of saving a few cents per gallon over the summer. 
 Mrs. Laster, after filling up in Alabama, said the plans would probably not cause enough of a price drop to ease her financial anxiety. Or would it? 
 Jeff Hamilton, the owner of a small gas station in Graceville, Fla., just a few miles away, said that when it came to gas, Americans did not necessarily behave rationally. A few pennies at the pump can mean a lot.
 ''It's all psychological,'' Mr. Hamilton said. ''People don't understand that if they drive a few miles to get gas that's a little bit cheaper, they lose money.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Smith of Fairview Heights, Ill., filled up in St. Louis for nearly 25 cents less per gallon.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A25) GRAPHIC: Price Disparities at the Pump: With soaring gasoline prices, lawmakers in some states have proposed suspending the state gas tax during the summer driving season. Many of the disparities in gas prices are caused by differences in state gas taxes, a substantial component of the retail price. But even if each state were to give a summer break on its gas tax, which is unlikely, the savings for the average driver would be minimal. The Times calculated the estimated savings for the entire summer using the state gas tax, the number of drivers and the average amount of gasoline sold in each state in June, July and August.(Sources: gasbuddy.com
Energy Information Administration
Federal Highway Administration
 American Petroleum Institute) (GRAPHIC BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL TAX (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GAS STATIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); US LABOR DAY (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); MILK (73%); FAMILY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YUMA, AZ, USA (71%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



180 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: After Fossella's D.W.I. Arrest, District Is Puzzled and Torn

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
He has become the talk of his own Congressional district, and not always in the most flattering of tones. Across Staten Island on Tuesday, voters were wondering what Representative Vito J. Fossella was thinking when, the police say, he drove into a Washington suburb while severely intoxicated early one morning last week.
 ''He shouldn't have been doing what he was doing,'' said Kathy Razzore, 35, of Tottenville, as she lunched at the Annadale Diner. ''He could have hurt someone.'' 
 Her husband, Andrew, 34, said he would not vote for Mr. Fossella again. ''I mean, someone who's a politician like that is usually gunning for other people doing something wrong,'' he said. ''I wouldn't vote for him again.''
 But it is far from clear that most voters in Staten Island are ready to punish Mr. Fossella, a Republican who would face a mandatory five-day sentence if convicted. Although Democrats feel his Congressional district, the 13th, is shifting their way and have pledged to challenge Mr. Fossella aggressively this fall, he remains popular there, the city's Republican stronghold. 
 James Mahones, 26, expressed a common sentiment as he waited for a customer at his barber chair at Aces Barbershop on Giffords Lane, not far from the home in Great Kills that Mr. Fossella shares with his wife and three children. 
 ''We still support the guy,'' Mr. Mahones said. ''He is a good guy. It happens to the best of us.''
 Prosecutors in Alexandria, Va., said Mr. Fossella, 43, was driving with a blood-alcohol level more than twice the legal limit when he was pulled over just after midnight last Thursday. Since last week, tabloid newspapers and the blogosphere have been filled with accounts of Mr. Fossella's night, and The Daily News has taken to referring to him as ''Vino Fossella.''
 A spokesman said Mr. Fossella had attended a celebration at the White House on Wednesday for the New York Giants' Super Bowl victory, then went to dinner in Georgetown with two dozen or so people from Staten Island.
 Mr. Fossella has offered conflicting accounts of his journey after he left dinner and before he was arrested. At the time he was stopped, Mr. Fossella told the police that he was on his way to pick up his sick daughter. At a news conference the next day, Mr. Fossella said he was headed to visit a friend. 
 ''If it's just a matter of his being arrested for drunken driving, it won't have wide-ranging implications for him, politically,'' said Daniel C. Kramer, emeritus professor of political science at the College of Staten Island.
 ''But if it turns out there are more disclosures regarding his behavior and his personal life, it would well affect him,'' Mr. Kramer said. ''It could cost him four or five percentage points, which could conceivably cause him to lose. But it's much too early to determine anything conclusive.''
 An ally of President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney -- who appeared at a fund-raiser for him last month -- Mr. Fossella remains politically strong in Staten Island, but his margins of victory have been shrinking. In 2006, he faced his strongest challenge since joining Congress in 1998, defeating Stephen A. Harrison by 56.7 percent to 43.3 percent.
 Still, many Democrats -- including one of the congressman's Democratic challengers, City Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr. -- have declined to discuss Mr. Fossella's problems publicly, saying they do not want to criticize him at a difficult time for him and his family. 
 ''What I can say is that, even before this, the race was a viable one for me,'' Mr. Recchia said. ''We are connecting with people and meeting with people. People are jumping on my train.''
 Mr. Harrison, who is also seeking the Democratic nomination, said that Mr. Fossella's troubles have been widely discussed among voters in the district. 
 ''From what I'm hearing, people in the district are upset with him,'' Mr. Harrison said. ''There seems to be more confusion about why he did it than what he did. Why someone in his position would jeopardize his career and his family.''
 But Mr. Harrison added that it was a ''distraction'' from the issues of the economy and the war in Iraq. ''There are so many other things that we should be focusing on.'' 
 Among residents of the district, there was both support and criticism.
 Tara Cossidenti, 20, who works at the counter of a deli near Mr. Fossella's home, was not so forgiving. ''I just think he's a bad example. Getting arrested for drunk driving does not set a good example for other people,'' she said.
 But at the Annadale Diner, Jo Burke, 60, who splits her time between Florida and the Woodrow section of Staten Island, said that if someone in that very diner had a couple of drinks and got in his or her car, the same thing could happen.
 ''It doesn't faze me in the least,'' she said. ''It's just the human condition.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vito J. Fossella, accused of driving drunk, is still popular. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG RUTTLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Tara Cossidenti, 20, a cashier at a deli near Mr. Fossella's home, was not forgiving. ''I just think he's a bad example,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DIBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ARRESTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); SENTENCING (72%); BARBER SHOPS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%)

PERSON: VITO FOSSELLA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



181 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: The Foreclosure Crisis

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 It is not surprising that the same lenders and brokers who brought us the subprime mortgage disaster are now lobbying against the relatively mild proposals under consideration to regulate high-cost mortgage loans (''Lenders Fight Stricter Rules on Mortgages,'' front page, April 28). 
 What is surprising, and frankly shocking, is that the Federal Reserve board, after all that has happened, may buy those anti-regulation arguments once again. Deregulation of the American lending industry deserves much of the blame for the subprime mortgage frenzy, and the economic crash it produced. 
 One lesson we should all be able to draw from the foreclosure crisis is that the government has a duty to protect and inform consumers about what is not only the biggest investment most individuals make, but also the cornerstone of family wealth and community stability. 
 The Federal Reserve board should ignore the cries of an industry that argues that preventing it from engaging in unfair or deceptive practices will put it out of business. 
 Instead, the Fed and Congress should listen to consumers and its advocates, who are begging for help and demanding fair play in the marketplace. 
 Irv Ackelsberg Board Treasurer, Americans for Fairness in Lending Philadelphia, April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); FAIR LENDING (78%); LOBBYING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); DEREGULATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



182 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
SLIDESHOW: URBAN GARDENS
 More and more people in New York and elsewhere are raising fruits and vegetables not just to feed their families but to sell to people on their block. 
 nytimes.com/dining
 VIDEO: MINIMALIST ON CRUSTLESS QUICHE
 Marc Bittman shows viewers how to make quiche, sans crust, using a ramekin.
 nytimes.com/dining
 AUDIO: ONLINE: THE CYCLONE'S WAKE
 More photographs of the damage done by the cyclone that hit the country over the weekend and John Hockenberry and Adaora Udoji of NPR's ''The Takeaway'' talk to Seth Mydans and the BBC's Daniel Griffiths.
 nytimes.com/world
 SLIDESHOW: THE LEDE: PHOTOS FROM MYANMAR
 Photographs submitted by an online reader who left Yangon for Bangkok after the cyclone had hit Myanmar.
 nytimes.com/thelede
 CITY ROOM: THE HEALTH OF THE ARTS IN NEW YORK
 The president of a nonprofit arts organization in New York will answer readers' questions about the economic health of the arts in the city.
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 READING ROOM: A LOOK AT HOUSEKEEPING
 A conversation about Marilynne Robinson's 1980 novel continues, touching on eccentricity, sex, comedy, feminism and more. Read along and share your thoughts.
 nytimes.com/readingroom

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYANMAR CYCLONE NARGIS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); GARDENING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) MYANMAR (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



183 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: The Democratic Recession

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
There are two important recessions going on in the world today. One has gotten enormous attention. It's the economic recession in America. But it will eventually pass, and the world will not be much worse for the wear. The other has gotten no attention. It's called ''the democratic recession,'' and if it isn't reversed, it will change the world for a long time.
 The term ''democratic recession'' was coined by Larry Diamond, a Stanford University political scientist, in his new book ''The Spirit of Democracy.'' And the numbers tell the story. At the end of last year, Freedom House, which tracks democratic trends and elections around the globe, noted that 2007 was by far the worst year for freedom in the world since the end of the cold war. Almost four times as many states -- 38 -- declined in their freedom scores as improved -- 10. 
 What explains this? A big part of this reversal is being driven by the rise of petro-authoritarianism. I've long argued that the price of oil and the pace of freedom operate in an inverse correlation -- which I call: ''The First Law of Petro-Politics.'' As the price of oil goes up, the pace of freedom goes down. As the price of oil goes down, the pace of freedom goes up. 
 ''There are 23 countries in the world that derive at least 60 percent of their exports from oil and gas and not a single one is a real democracy,'' explains Diamond. ''Russia, Venezuela, Iran and Nigeria are the poster children'' for this trend, where leaders grab the oil tap to ensconce themselves in power.
 But while oil is critical in blunting the democratic wave, it is not the only factor. The decline of U.S. influence and moral authority has also taken a toll. The Bush democracy-building effort in Iraq has been so botched, both by us and Iraqis, that America's ability and willingness to promote democracy elsewhere has been damaged. The torture scandals of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay also have not helped. ''There has been an enormous squandering of American soft power, and hard power, in recent years,'' said Diamond, who worked in Iraq as a democracy specialist.
 The bad guys know it and are taking advantage. And one place you see that most is in Zimbabwe, where President Robert Mugabe has been trying to steal an election, after years of driving his country into a ditch. I would say there is no more disgusting leader in the world today than Mugabe. The only one who rivals him is his neighbor and chief enabler and protector, South Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki.
 Zimbabwe went to the polls on March 29, and the government released the results only last week. Mugabe apparently decided that he couldn't claim victory, since there was too much evidence to the contrary. So his government said that the opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, had won 47.9 percent of the vote and Mugabe 42.3 percent. But since no one got 50 percent of the vote, under Zimbabwe law, there must now be a runoff. 
 Tsvangirai and his Movement for Democratic Change claim to have won 50.3 percent of the vote and have to decide whether or not to take part in the runoff, which will be violent. Opposition figures have already been targeted by a state-led campaign of attacks and intimidation.
 If South Africa's Mbeki had withdrawn his economic and political support for Mugabe's government, Mugabe would have had to have resigned a long time ago. But Mbeki feels no loyalty to suffering Zimbabweans. His only loyalty is to his fellow anti-colonial crony, Mugabe. What was that anti-colonial movement for? So an African leader could enslave his people instead of a European one? 
 What Mugabe has done to his country is one of the most grotesque acts of misgovernance ever. Inflation is so rampant that Zimbabweans have to carry their currency -- if they have any --around in bags. Store shelves are bare; farming has virtually collapsed; crime by people just starving for food is rampant; and the electric grid can't keep the lights on.
 What can the U.S. do? In Zimbabwe, we need to work with decent African leaders like Zambia's Levy Mwanawasa to bring pressure for a peaceful transition. And with our Western allies, we should threaten to take Mugabe's clique to the International Criminal Court in The Hague -- just as we did Serbia's leaders -- if they continue to subvert the election.
 But we also need to do everything possible to develop alternatives to oil to weaken the petro-dictators. That's another reason the John McCain-Hillary Clinton proposal to lift the federal gasoline tax for the summer -- so Americans can drive more and keep the price of gasoline up -- is not a harmless little giveaway. It's not the end of civilization, either. 
 It's just another little nail in the coffin of democracy around the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); FREEDOM HOUSE (56%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CUBA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



184 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Debt Worries Arrive for a Hotel and Mall Operator

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
David Lichtenstein was new to the hotel business when he made one of the last big highly leveraged real estate deals before the credit squeeze, acquiring Extended Stay Hotels, a chain of 687 no-frills hotels, last June for $8.1 billion. 
 The transaction capped several years of aggressive buying during which his New York-based company, the Lightstone Group, accumulated a large and diverse collection of apartment complexes, shopping malls, office buildings, industrial space and hotels in 45 states.
 But now, like many real estate companies, Lightstone is encountering some turbulence. Room occupancy in the extended-stay hotel sector, which is aimed at construction workers and other employees on temporary assignments, was down 6 percent last quarter from the same quarter last year, according to Smith Travel Research, a company in Hendersonville, Tenn., that specializes in the hotel industry. 
 The company is also facing challenges that real estate specialists say may become increasingly common in the economic downturn. The company has defaulted on loans for two apartment complexes in Indianapolis, according to Trepp, a New York research company that tracks loans that have been packaged for investors as commercial mortgage-backed securities. 
 Lightstone is also trying to renegotiate the terms of its loans with a total balance of $139.7 million for the Burlington Square Mall in Burlington, N.C., and the Macon Mall in Macon, Ga. Both malls have fierce competition from shopping centers, Mr. Lichtenstein said.
 Delinquencies among loans in commercial mortgage-backed securities have been inching up, but the rate so far remains low. Realpoint Research, a division of Capmark that tracks commercial mortgage-backed securities, singled out the Lightstone mall loans in a recent report as among only three with an unpaid balance exceeding $100 million that have been transferred to loan officers known as ''special servicers'' because they were in danger of default.
 Though Lightstone is current on its mortgage payments, the company has told the special servicer, CW Capital Asset Management, that it cannot keep paying because of declining cash flow, said Frank Innaurato, a managing director of Realpoint. 
 ''It raises a red flag for a company such as Lightstone that grew very fast over the last couple of years that they are finding properties that they might not want to keep backing going forward,'' Mr. Innaurato said. 
 But Mr. Lichtenstein, 47, shrugs off his problems with the mall and apartment mortgages. Given the size of Lightstone's portfolio -- 23 million square feet spread across about 950 individual properties -- a few losses are to be expected, he said. 
 ''When you're in 45 markets, you take it on the chin here and there,'' he said in an interview Monday in his relatively modest Park Avenue office. ''If I can keep our losses at 1, 2 or 3 percent, I think that's wonderful in this economy.'' 
 Acknowledging that revenues from the extended-stay portfolio have fallen slightly, he said the company has been trying to broaden the hotels' reach by going after leisure travelers who might be ''feeling a little pinched'' and would appreciate the low rates -- an average room costs $55 a night -- and the kitchens that come with every room. 
 Vacancy has increased disproportionately in this sector of the hotel industry because the downturn occurred just as the supply was increasing, said Robert I. Bowers, Jr., a senior vice president at Smith Travel. Revenue for an average room for the sector was down 2 percent in the first quarter, he said, adding that Lightstone's portfolio accounts for almost half of the sector. 
 Mr. Lichtenstein's plans for the hotels include creating a provocative advertising campaign and instituting the type of sophisticated pricing models that were pioneered by airline companies. The company is renovating the lobbies and about 30,000 rooms to make the chain a little more upscale but still low cost.
 Mark Skinner, a partner in the Highland Group, a hospitality consulting and research firm based in Atlanta, said the company's strategy is promising. ''If you can get your message across to the right audience, there's no reason why that shouldn't result in an increase in business,'' he said. ''People are looking to economize.''
 Like most real estate deals before last summer's credit crisis, the purchase of Extended Stay Hotels was highly leveraged. Lightstone and its partner, Arbor Realty Trust of Uniondale, N.Y., put up only $450 million of their own equity. About $4.1 billion of the debt was packaged into securities, but with the slowdown in the capital markets, Wachovia Bank, Lightstone's lender, has not been able to sell all of it.
 But much of the debt is tied to the Libor, the London interbank offered rate, which has declined by 50 percent in the last year. Mr. Lichtenstein said that as a result of the lower interest rate, the hotel portfolio is actually performing better than projected when Lightstone bought it. 
 Because of the credit squeeze, Lightstone was unable to roll over a $31 million bond it inherited when it bought the hotel portfolio and had to use its own money to pay it off. But the Extended Stay Hotels acquisition has little short-term debt, Mr. Lichtenstein said. He said the company has more than four years to make the hotels successful. 
 In November, the company stopped making mortgage payments on two Indianapolis apartment complexes -- the 462-unit International Village and the 304-unit Regency Park South -- which it acquired in 2003 for $25 million, according to Manus Clancy, a managing director of Trepp. 
 Mission Capital Advisors, a loan-sale advisory firm in New York, is marketing $20 million in debt on the apartment complexes on behalf of ING Clarion Partners, the company that is servicing the troubled loans. Mr. Lichtenstein blamed the poor economy for the difficulties in Indianapolis. 
 The two problem-plagued malls were acquired in 2005. The Burlington Square Mall has lost two of its anchor stores to the nearby Alamance Crossing, and is now only about half-occupied. The Macon Mall lost one anchor store and is believed in danger of losing another. Mr. Lichtenstein said he was not sure whether new terms could be worked out. ''We do not know where it will go yet,'' he said. 
 The son of teachers, Mr. Lichtenstein grew up in Brooklyn and thought about becoming a scholar before turning to real estate two decades ago. Lightstone initially specialized in second- and third-tier apartment buildings but gained attention in 2003 when it bought Prime Retail, a company with 36 outlet malls. In 2005, Lightstone bought Prime's sister company, Prime Group Realty Trust, which owned a portfolio of 11 office buildings, mainly in the Chicago area. 
 Unlike many investors who prefer coastal markets, Mr. Lichtenstein focuses on secondary and tertiary markets. His company is also unusual in that it has properties in every commercial real estate sector. Diversification -- both by geography and property type -- is a good way to avoid risk, Mr. Lichtenstein said.
 ''My philosophy,'' he said, ''is, 'Don't put all your eggs in one basket.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Square Feet pages of Business Day on Wednesday about Lightstone Group, a New York real estate company facing challenges in paying its debt, misstated the name of a research company that tracks commercial mortgage-backed securities and gave an outdated description of its ownership. It is Realpoint L.L.C. -- not Realpoint Research -- and it is now an independent company, no longer a division of Capmark.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Lichtenstein, chief of the Lightstone Group, said the economy had hurt properties like the Extended Stay America in Queens, top, and the Macon Mall in Georgia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JESSICA McGOWAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (95%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RETAIL PROPERTY (91%); LODGING (90%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RETAILERS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CASH FLOW (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (71%); INTERVIEWS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MACON, GA, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



185 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Disaster in Myanmar

 BODY:
By all accounts, Cyclone Nargis has devastated Myanmar -- a 12-foot wall of water sweeping away entire villages, leaving the coastal plain under water, thousands dead, missing or homeless and much of the capital city of Yangon without electricity or water. It is the sort of disaster that brings the world together in a desire to help, and the reaction of governments, the United Nations and international humanitarian organizations has been swift and noble. There is no time to waste. 
 We wish we could also say that this is no time for politics, but that simply would not be true. Myanmar -- the name the junta gave to Burma -- has been ruled by military dictatorship for 46 years, increasingly isolated and struggling under economic sanctions by the United States and Europe. Last September, the junta crushed peaceful protest marches by Buddhist monks.
 These repressive policies contributed greatly to the the disaster. Crushing poverty left many coastal communities more vulnerable to the storm than they otherwise might have been, and, as Laura Bush observed, the government-controlled news media failed to issue timely warnings. The fear now is that the generals may create obstacles to the rescue operation, which will require moving volumes of supplies as well as large numbers of aid workers, many from countries hostile to the regime.
 Though the junta took the unusual step of asking for foreign assistance, the information minister suggested that only ''friendly countries'' would be allowed to help. It is still not clear whether aid workers will require visas. The junta also has refused to cancel a referendum scheduled for next Saturday on a constitution that claims to be a step toward democracy. The referendum, which will effectively leave the military in control anyway, will divert attention from recovery efforts.
 None of this should dissuade any government or agency from trying to help. President Bush pledged $3.25 million on Tuesday. He said the United States stood ready to ''do a lot more'' -- including deploying American naval assets to assist rescue and aid distribution efforts -- but first the junta must approve and let American disaster teams assess the damage.
 Helping the people of Myanmar is the immediate task. In time, the world can redouble its effort to free Myanmar from the great disaster of the junta itself. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); MYANMAR CYCLONE NARGIS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); POWER FAILURES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); REFERENDUMS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (68%); RELIGION (53%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



186 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; THE POUR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: Wine's Pleasures: Are They All In Your Head?

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
THE mind of the wine consumer is a woolly place, packed with odd and arcane information fascinating to few. Like the pants pocket of a 7-year-old boy, it's full of bits of string, bottle caps and shiny rocks collected while making the daily rounds of wine shops, restaurants, periodicals and the wine-soaked back alleys of the Internet. It's harmless stuff, really, except to those within earshot when a wine lover finds it necessary to elaborate on the nose, legs and body of a new infatuation.
 Yet in recent months American wine drinkers have taken their turn as pop culture's punching bags. In press accounts of two studies on wine psychology, consumers have been portrayed as dupes and twits, subject to the manipulations of marketers, critics and charlatan producers who have cloaked wine in mystique and sham sophistication in hopes of better separating the public from its money.
 One of the studies was devised by Robin Goldstein, a food writer, to try to isolate consumers from outside influence so they could simply judge wine by what's in the glass. He had 500 volunteers sample and rate 540 unidentified wines priced from $1.50 to $150 a bottle. The results are described in a new book, ''The Wine Trials,'' to be published this month by Fearless Critic Media. 
 The book wraps the results in a discussion of marketing manipulations and statistical validity, but a brief article in the April 7 issue of Newsweek magazine, naturally, seized on the book's populist triumphs: a $10 bottle of bubbly from Washington state outscored Dom Perignon, which sells for $150 a bottle, while Two-Buck Chuck, the cheap Charles Shaw California cabernet sauvignon, topped a $55 bottle of Napa Valley cabernet.
 ''Their results might rattle a few wine snobs, but the average oenophile can rejoice: 100 wines under $15 consistently outperformed their upscale cousins,'' the article exulted.
 Two caveats are in order here. First, it turns out that the results of the tastings are more nuanced than the Newsweek article let on. In fact, the book shows that what appeals to novice wine drinkers is significantly different from what appeals to wine experts, which the book defines as those who have had some sort of training or professional experience with wine. The experts, by the way, preferred the Dom Perignon. 
 Second, there is, of course, no such thing as the ''average oenophile,'' as Newsweek put it. Most people in the wine trade understand that consumers have any number of reasons for their buying decisions, whatever their psychological and financial state. Some are reassured by easy-to-understand labels with friendly animals. Others want only naturally produced wines or bottles with a modest carbon footprint. Some are status-seekers and score-chasers, while others are contrarians, or only drink red wine.
 But assuming for the moment that it's true that most drinkers prefer the cheap stuff, why does anyone bother buying $55 cabernet? One answer is provided by a second experiment, in which presumably sober researchers at the California Institute of Technology and the Stanford Business School demonstrated that the more expensive consumers think a wine is, the more pleasure they are apt to take in it. 
 The researchers scanned the brains of 21 volunteer wine novices as they administered tiny tastes of wine, measuring sensations in the medial orbitofrontal cortex, the part of the brain where flavor responses apparently register. The subjects were told only the price of the wines. Without their knowledge, they tasted one wine twice, and were given two different prices for that wine. Invariably they preferred the one they thought was more expensive. 
 ''Forget those blurbs about bouquets, body and berries,'' one newspaper account crowed. ''A meticulous new study found that the more people think a wine cost, the more they like it. And the less they think it cost, the less they like it.''
 Big surprise. Sommeliers all over know that the hardest wine to sell in a restaurant is the cheapest bottle on the list. ''Yeah, clients don't want to be embarrassed in front of a date, so they don't order the cheapest wines,'' said Fred Dexheimer, the wine director of the BLT restaurant group. The fact is, the correlation between price and quality is so powerful that it affects not just our perception of wine but of all consumer goods.
 ''It's not just about wine, it's about everything!'' said Prof. Dan Ariely, a behavioral economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and author of the book ''Predictably Irrational: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions'' (HarperCollins, $25.95), which examines how people make all sorts of real life decisions. Regardless of the situation, Professor Ariely found, suggestion has a powerful effect on perception and belief.
 In one experiment, volunteers who received mild electric shocks were given placebo pills to relieve the pain. They were told that the pills cost either 10 cents or $2.50. The participants believed that both kinds of pills helped relieve pain, but the seemingly more expensive pills had a much greater effect.
 ''If you expect not to get something as good, lo and behold, it's not as good,'' Professor Ariely said. ''We think of it as an objective reality. We don't see how much is created by our mind.''
 Even so, wine drinkers tend to be the punch line. People are unlikely to be ridiculed for buying $300 jeans that are washed, bleached and beaten over rocks instead of $60 jeans that will last a decade. But wine buyers who prefer the $20 bottle over a $10 bottle? All that stuff about aromas and complexity? Forget it!
 Are wine consumers really easily manipulated victims, the flip side of the stereotype of wine drinkers as pretentious snobs? What have they done to be singled out from other consumers who might equally be portrayed as knuckling under to hype and salesmanship, like connoisseurs of clothes, handbags or shoes, car aficionados or golf fanatics, food or film lovers? 
 The answer rests, I think, both in the insecure and uncomfortable attitudes that Americans hold toward wine and in the difficulty of bringing some sort of objective and universal criteria to the fleeting and obscure realms of aroma, taste and texture. 
 The consumption of wine has been growing steadily in the United States rising to 283 million cases in 2006 from almost 189 million cases in 1993, according to the Adams Wine Handbook, which tracks consumption. 
 Yet drinking more hasn't made Americans more comfortable with wine. People with little interest in wine tend to see it as somehow foreign and threatening. Even among the curious, fears abound, of being embarrassed or appearing unsophisticated, of choosing the wrong wine, or of liking the wrong one. Every year books come out purporting to help the winephobic avoid embarrassment, impress their bosses or learn shortcuts to wine knowledge. But I sense no decrease in the number of people whose questions to me are prefaced by a sheepish, ''I don't know anything about wine, though I really should.''
 Meanwhile, consumers face an impenetrable swamp of winespeak: Wine Spectator recently evaluated one Argentine red as, ''Dark and rich, with lots of fig bread, mocha, ganache, prune and loam notes. Stays fine-grained on the finish, with lingering sage and toast hints.'' 
 To hack through it all, consumers embrace scores, an easy shorthand that unfortunately requires that every wine be judged on the same seemingly objective scale, regardless of the subjective nature of taste. Anybody can understand that a wine rated 90 beats an 89, right? 
 Yet the rating system has bred an attitude toward wine that ignores context, which is perhaps more important a consideration to the enjoyment of wine than anything else. The proverbial little red wine, so delicious in a Tuscan village with your sweetie, never tastes the same back home in New Jersey. Meanwhile, the big California cabernet, which you enjoyed so much with your work buddies at a steakhouse, ties tucked between buttons, doesn't have that triumphant lift with a bowl of spaghetti.
 This is one problem with trying to judge wine in the sort of clinical vacuum sought by studies like the one in ''The Wine Trials.'' In the end, I don't think you can ever eliminate context. The trick is to distinguish between the harmful or disingenuous -- the marketing come-ons, the point chasing, what the guy next to you thinks -- from the beneficial: the food, the company, the environment. Even in a blind tasting situation, wine is evaluated in the company of other wines, which is a different sort of context but a context nonetheless. Perhaps they've chosen the best wines to be sipped and spat out, but not the best wines for dinner. 
 Ultimately, context may be the most underrated aspect of enjoying wine. Tyler Colman, a wine writer and blogger (drvino.com), whose first book, ''Wine Politics,'' will shortly be published by the University of California Press, has a second book coming out this fall, ''A Year of Wine'' (Simon & Schuster), that focuses on context. 
 ''The mood and the food and the context really matters,'' he said. ''It's the neglected pairing.''
 Just as understanding when to dress up and when to dress down is intuitive for many people, so, too, does it become instinctive over time for wine lovers to know which is the proper bottle to open. But that requires experience of many different wines. Eventually the novelty of great wines, or expensive wines, can wear off.
 ''Sometimes a great Beaujolais is a better choice than La Tache,'' said Nathan Vandergrift, a statistical researcher at the University of California at Irvine, who has seen the wine business as a retailer, an importer and distributor, and most recently as a blogger at the Vulgar Little Monkey Translucency Report. Mr. Vandergrift has had plenty of Beaujolais, and a fair amount of La Tache, one of the most highly sought wines in the world. 
 Would that we all could achieve that sense of freedom and zen-like serenity, where we've had our fill of all else and can simply choose the right wine because it's the right wine. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEYMOUR CHWAST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); WINE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (73%); BEVERAGE PRICES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); WRITERS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (50%)

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: The Wine Trials (Book)>; The Wine Trials (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



187 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Sharper Scrutiny of Ethical Standards

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK; Matthew Saltmarsh and Caroline Brothers contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
A series of bribery investigations at leading European companies has helped to accelerate compliance with global anticorruption standards as managers recognize the risk to their brands and reputations, legal analysts and international regulators say. 
 ''In terms of establishing global standards in the area of bribery and corruption, more progress has probably been made in the last 18 months than in the previous two decades,'' said Richard Cellini, vice president of Integrity Interactive, a consulting firm in Waltham, Mass., that specializes in reducing ethics and compliance risk. 
 ''What you are seeing now,'' he said, ''is an increased sensibility among global companies that the reputational damage of bribery allegations has become much more significant than any actual legal consequences.'' 
 Alstom, the French engineering giant, acknowledged on Tuesday that some employees had been questioned recently by French and Swiss investigators looking into accusations that the company paid hundreds of millions of dollars in bribes to gain contracts in Asia and South America from 1995 to 2003. 
 Also Tuesday, an internal audit by BAE Systems, the British military contractor, found the company had left itself open to corruption charges by failing to pay enough attention to ethics, particularly in a case involving arms sales to Saudi Arabia. Last year, two former executives of the German engineering group Siemens were convicted of bribery in connection with an Italian gas-turbine contract. 
 Attitudes appear to be hardening in Europe, where laws prohibiting payments to foreign officials or executives in order to win business contracts are still relatively new. 
 Until a few years ago, many European governments even allowed corporations to deduct ''commissions'' paid to win foreign contracts. France outlawed such practices in 2000 and Germany followed in 2003. Britain still has no formal anticorruption law. 
 Where no strict enforcement exists, however, some European companies are taking matters into their own hands. 
 ''The rules of the game have changed,'' said Mr. Cellini, whose company advises some 350 clients, including Adidas, BP, Novartis and Coca-Cola, on ethics practices. ''In the age of the Internet, the brand damage from these allegations is sustained overnight, even if the actual legal facts are established months or even years later.'' 
 BAE Systems said Tuesday that it planned to adopt 23 recommendations by a committee led by Harry Woolf, a former British judge responsible for reviewing the company's ethics policies. Britain's Serious Fraud Office abandoned an investigation last year into accusations that the company had used bribes to win a multibillion-dollar Saudi arms deal dating to the 1980s. BAE Systems has denied wrongdoing in the case. 
 Mr. Woolf's report recommended that BAE link senior executives' pay to ethical behavior and review all business decisions on their implications for the company's reputation and ethical standards. 
 Alstom's acknowledgment on Tuesday followed a report in The Wall Street Journal that investigators were looking into more than $200 million of payments the company had made in connection with a subway expansion project in Sao Paulo, Brazil, as well as a hydroelectric project in that country partly financed by the World Bank. 
 Alstom, which received a large government bailout in 2004 to keep from collapsing, said ''no judiciary procedure is accusing the company of bribery.'' 
 While acknowledging the accusations against Alstom were unproven, anticorruption organizations hailed the disclosure of the investigation as an encouraging sign. 
 ''Enforcement is still a mixed picture,'' said Fritz Heimann, a founder of Transparency International, a group that monitors corruption. Of the 37 countries that have signed the 1997 antibribery convention of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, little more than a third have a ''reasonable'' level of enforcement, Mr. Heimann said. 
 Transparency International ranked Germany and France last year as being among the countries that had made the most progress investigating and prosecuting corporate bribery cases. Japan, Britain and Canada failed to pursue any significant prosecutions, the group said. 
 Yet even in countries where enforcement has been less strict, analysts said that business leaders were recognizing the importance of cleaning up their acts. 
 A survey published last month by Integrity Interactive found that bribery risk had become the issue of greatest concern among compliance officers and heads of legal departments at Europe's 100 largest companies. Forty-eight percent said they were devoting the bulk of their time and resources to bribery and corruption, up from 34 percent a year ago. A third said that they believed government authorities were not being tough enough in pursuing bribery cases. 
 ''Companies are starting to recognize the need to clean up their own act,'' said Mr. Cellini of Integrity Interactive, which has offices in Europe. ''People who do not get the message in a matter of months will lose their jobs.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harry Woolf led a review of BAE Systems' ethics policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEON NEAL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (92%); CORRUPTION (91%); ETHICS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BUSINESS ETHICS (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (88%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ENGINEERING (76%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TURBINE MFG (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%); AUDITS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); JUDGES (65%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (58%)

COMPANY: BAE SYSTEMS PLC (83%); NOVARTIS AG (56%); SIEMENS AG (56%); ALSTOM SA (56%); COCA-COLA CO (52%)

TICKER: BA (LSE) (83%); NVS (NYSE) (56%); NOVN (SWX) (56%); SIN (SWX) (56%); SIE (LSE) (56%); SIE (FRA) (56%); SIE (BIT) (56%); SI (NYSE) (56%); ALO (PAR) (56%); KO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (75%); GERMANY (73%); SOUTH AMERICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



188 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Inflation Only in the Prices That Go Up

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT; Donna Anderson contributed to this column. E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Next week, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will release its monthly report on inflation, and it sure is going to sound strange. Wall Street is expecting the bureau to announce that the Consumer Price Index rose just three-tenths of a percentage point in April. Over the last year, the index has risen only about 4 percent. 
 I'm guessing that doesn't square with your sense of reality.
 In my household, we just broke the $60 barrier for filling up our gas tank. Nationwide, the price of bananas is up almost 20 percent over the last year, while eggs are up 35 percent. Costco and Sam's Club recently began rationing rice, to prevent hoarding. All the while, some of the big-ticket items that have been getting more expensive for years -- like health care and college -- just keep on getting more so. 
 This contrast between the official government statistics and day-to-day reality has led to a boomlet in skepticism about what the government is up to. Last month, when I did an online Q. and A. with Times readers, I got three separate, thoughtful questions about -- of all things -- how the inflation rate is calculated. The current cover story in Harper's, called ''Numbers Racket: Why the Economy Is Worse Than We Know,'' deals with the same subject. Written by Kevin Phillips, the Nixon aide turned left-leaning commentator, it concludes that the real inflation rate ''is as high as 7 or even 10 percent.'' 
 This isn't just an academic discussion about numbers, either. The Consumer Price Index helps determine the size of Social Security checks and affects annual raises at many companies. If the index is wrong, senior citizens and workers are being cheated, and the economy is indeed much worse than we know. 
 So what's going on here?
 To answer that question, it helps to go back a few years, to a time when trips to the supermarket didn't induce sticker shock. In 2003, a pound of hamburger cost all of $2.20. More than two decades earlier, in 1980, it cost $1.86, which means that the nominal price of burger meat rose only 18 percent over a period in which the nominal hourly pay of the typical American worker rose 150 percent. 
 Similar stories can be told about eggs, bananas, bread and frozen orange juice. Food was getting cheaper relative to everything else, as Neil Harl, an agriculture professor at Iowa State University, explained to me, because of a combination of government subsidies, global trade and the rise of industrial farms.
 During the 1980s and 1990s, though, did you ever stop and marvel at what a small share of your paycheck you were spending at the supermarket? I didn't. I also didn't really notice that gas cost less in the late 1990s than it had in the 1980s. Yet lately, every time my wife or I pass a new benchmark for filling up our tank -- $40, $50 and now $60 -- we have a conversation about it.
 Price increases are simply more noticeable -- more salient, as psychologists would say -- than price decreases. Part of this comes from the notion of loss aversion: human beings dislike a loss more than they like a gain of equivalent size. If you have to sell your house for less than you bought it for, you're really unhappy. You hate that ground chuck now costs $2.83 a pound, but you didn't notice that oranges are 31 percent cheaper than they were a year ago. 
 There is also something particular to inflation that aggravates loss aversion. Price increases are obvious. But price declines are often hidden. The cost of an item stays about the same for years, while everything else gets more expensive and nominal incomes rise.
 When you dig into the Consumer Price Index, you start to realize just how many things fall into this category. The price of major appliances has been flat over the last year. Furniture is 1 percent less expensive. A decade ago, a basic four-door Toyota Corolla LE cost $16,018, according to the company. The 2009 basic model costs $16,650, and it's a safer, more powerful, more fuel-efficient car than its predecessor.
 To top it all off, most people don't buy any of these items very often. ''People tend to remember things they do frequently,'' says Stephen Cecchetti, an economist at Brandeis University who studies inflation. ''And what do you buy more frequently than gas and food?''
 But combine the less noticeable trends with some true price declines, like a 5 percent drop in women's clothing over the last year, and an inflation rate of 4 percent starts to seem more reasonable. Inflation really has gotten worse recently -- it was only 2 percent a year and a half ago -- but it's not as bad as it feels.
 The conspiracy theories about inflation play off these human instincts, but they also depend on two other oddities. The first is the amount of attention given to the so-called core inflation rate. This is a version of inflation that excludes food and energy, which makes it a little like a grade point average that excludes math and French. 
 The core inflation rate does have a purpose. Its movements help Federal Reserve officials base interest rates on underlying price trends, instead of being overly influenced by food or gas prices, both of which can be volatile. But when Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, talks publicly about core inflation, he can leave the impression that the government is cooking the books. In fact, all the important economic indicators, including real wages, are based on overall inflation, as are Social Security checks and cost-of-living raises.
 The final piece of the puzzle -- and the focus of the Harper's article -- is the way that the Bureau of Labor Statistics has changed the price index recently. Back in the mid-1990s, a committee of academic economists concluded that the Consumer Price Index overstated inflation. To take just one example, years would often pass before the index included new products -- like cellphones -- and therefore it missed the enormous price declines that occurred shortly after those products entered the mainstream. 
 In response, the bureau tweaked the index. But economists who have studied the changes say they have had only a modest effect on the inflation rate, lowering it by perhaps a half point a year. More to the point, the changes seem to have made the index more accurate than it used to be. 
 ''It's about as accurate as anybody is going to get it,'' Mr. Cecchetti said.
 That said, there is one way in which the official numbers were clearly understating inflation. To track housing costs, the Consumer Price Index analyzes rents, not home prices. (Why? Long story.) And rents didn't go up anywhere near as much as house prices during the real estate boom. So the index missed the huge run-up in home values that made life harder on anyone trying to buy a first home.
 Since 2006, of course, home prices have been falling. But rents have kept rising slowly, which means that, as far as the Consumer Price Index is concerned, housing has somehow gotten more expensive during the real estate crash.
 So when the new inflation numbers come out next week, they will indeed be misleading. They will be artificially high.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pumps show gasoline prices in Newbury, N.H., in the 1960s. Federal Reserve officials base interest rates on underlying price trends, instead of being overly influenced by gas or food prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM COLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.C11) CHART: NOT EVERYTHING IS MORE EXPENSIVE: The cost of some types of goods and services has soared over the last decade. But prices in other areas have been held in check or even declined. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); STATISTICS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FACTORY FARMS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); FROZEN FOODS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (53%); LIBERAL MEDIA (50%)

COMPANY: SAM'S CLUB (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



189 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Burger With a Side Of Spies

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHLOSSER. 
Eric Schlosser is the author of ''Fast Food Nation'' and ''Reefer Madness.''

DATELINE: Monterey, Calif. 

 BODY:
 WHILE the Patriot Act has raised fears about government spying on ordinary citizens, the growing threat to civil liberties posed by corporate spying has received much less attention. During the late 1990s, a private security firm spied on Greenpeace and other environmental groups, examining activists' phone records and even sending undercover agents to infiltrate the groups, according to an article in Mother Jones. In 2006 Hewlett-Packard was caught spying on journalists. Last year Wal-Mart apologized for improperly recording conversations with a New York Times reporter. 
 And now it turns out that the Burger King Corporation, home of the Whopper, hired a private security firm to spy on the Student/Farmworker Alliance, a group of idealistic college students trying to improve the lives of migrants in Florida. 
 The Student/Farmworker Alliance and an affiliated nonprofit, the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, have for years been urging the fast-food industry to accept some responsibility for the plight of Florida migrants who harvest the tomatoes for its hamburgers and tacos. I am a longtime supporter of their work. The wages of these farm workers, adjusted for inflation, have declined by as much as 70 percent since the late 1970s. And hundreds, perhaps thousands, of migrants have been enslaved by labor contractors and forced to work without pay. The McDonald's Corporation and Yum Brands (which owns Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and KFC) have agreed to subsidize a modest pay raise for their tomato pickers and work closely with the coalition to eliminate slavery from the fields. Burger King, however, has pursued a different strategy.
 In March, a woman named Cara Schaffer contacted the Student/Farmworker Alliance, saying she was a student at Broward Community College. Her eagerness aroused suspicions, but she was allowed to join two of the group's planning sessions. Internet searches by the alliance revealed that she was not a college student. 
 Ms. Schaffer is the 25-year-old owner of a private security firm. Her company, Diplomatic Tactical Services, seems like the kind of security firm you'd find in one of Carl Hiaasen's crime thrillers. Last year Ms. Schaffer was denied a private investigator's license; she had failed to supply the Florida licensing division with proof of ''lawfully gained, verifiable experience or training.'' Even more unsettling, one of her former subcontractors, Guillermo Zarabozo, is now facing murder charges in United States District Court in Miami for his role in allegedly executing four crew members of a charter fishing boat, then dumping their bodies at sea. 
 In an interview, a Burger King executive told me that the company had worked with Diplomatic Tactical Services for years on ''security-related matters'' and had used it to obtain information about the Student/Farmworker Alliance's plans -- in order to prevent acts of violence. ''It is both the corporation's right and duty,'' a company spokesman later wrote in an e-mail message to me, ''to protect its employees and assets from potential harm.'' 
 But the Student/Farmworker Alliance and the Coalition of Immokalee Workers are not dangerous, extremist groups. Both are pacifist, mainstream nonprofits inspired by the work of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The coalition is supported by the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Foundation, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) and Pax Christi, the Catholic peace movement. 
 The Bill of Rights was adopted to protect Americans from the abusive power of their government. I've come to believe that we now need a similar set of restrictions to defend against irresponsible corporate power. Today companies like Wal-Mart and ExxonMobil have annual revenues larger than the entire budgets of some states, and they employ former agents from the F.B.I., the C.I.A. and the Secret Service to do security work. Unlike government agencies, whose surveillance activities are supposed to be conducted according to strict guidelines and court orders, these private firms operate with a remarkable degree of freedom. At the moment, federal laws against the practice of ''pretexting'' -- using a false identity to obtain personal information -- apply only to financial and telephone records. 
 Congressional hearings on corporate espionage would be a good place to start figuring out how to regulate the practice. A Senate inquiry during the 1930s prompted companies to disband their private armies and stop spying on labor unions. Burger King's use of an unlicensed private investigator to spy on the Student/Farmworker Alliance may have been illegal under Florida law. John Chidsey, the chief executive of Burger King, knew about the use of Diplomatic Tactical Services. Mr. Chidsey should get a chance to raise his right hand and tell members of Congress why he thinks this sort of behavior is acceptable.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FRANCESCO BONGIORNI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (94%); ESPIONAGE (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); US PATRIOT ACT (78%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); WRITERS (71%); SPORT FISHING (71%); SLAVERY (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); MURDER (60%)

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (86%); MCDONALD'S CORP (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); TACO BELL CORP (54%); YUM! BRANDS INC (54%); PIZZA HUT INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (58%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (86%); MCD (NYSE) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); YUM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (86%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (86%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



190 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Cisco Sales Top Lowered Forecast, and Profit Declines

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Cisco Systems to Wall Street: It's not so bad. 
 The company, which makes networking equipment, met its own lowered quarterly sales target on Tuesday while beating analysts' earnings forecast by 2 cents a share. 
 The report was a welcome relief to many investors who had feared the difficult economic climate in the United States might have trampled Cisco's earnings during the quarter.
 Instead, Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., said revenue increased 10 percent, to $9.8 billion, from $8.9 billion, for its fiscal third quarter, ended April 26. Analysts had forecast revenue of $9.75 billion. 
 Cisco's earnings rose to 38 cents a share, from 34 cents a share in the quarter a year earlier. Including certain charges, the company's profit in the third quarter declined to $1.8 billion, or 29 cents a share, from $1.9 billion, or 30 cents a share. The figures included a 4 cents-a-share charge related to an acquisition during the quarter. 
 John T. Chambers, Cisco's chief executive, described the quarter as ''solid,'' saying that demand was down in the United States but strong in countries like Japan, China and India.
 ''We are seeing some orders slide out and that's what normally occurs during a little bit more challenging economic times,'' Mr. Chambers said during a conference call with analysts.
 Cisco executives said they saw American sales rise more slowly than usual, in the mid-single digits, as customers continued to be cautious about technology spending. Mr. Chambers said he expected the situation in the United States to remain ''challenging'' for the next quarter or two. 
 ''We will continue to monitor closely any spread of the U.S. challenges to other geographies,'' Mr. Chambers said.
 Cisco issued its report after the close of regular trading Tuesday. Its shares rose 5 cents, to $26.33, and continued slightly higher in after-hours trading.
 Cisco's performance is a closely watched barometer of economic health because the company's products are bought by telecommunications companies and other large corporations, which tend to scale back technology investments in a weakening economy. 
 ''There were certain pockets of strength offset by pockets of weakness,'' said Mark Sue, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets. ''There are still a lot of unknowns relative to tech spending.''
 One area of weakness for Cisco was in orders from service providers. That business declined 3 percent in the third quarter from the period a year earlier. Service revenue account for about a fifth of Cisco's business, Mr. Chambers said.
 Last week, Sun Microsystems blamed the faltering United States economy for its swing back into the red in the March quarter. But Mr. Chambers said he was confident Cisco would emerge in an even better competitive position, as it has done in earlier periods of economic slowdown.
 Mr. Chambers told analysts that he expected 9 to 10 percent growth in the fourth quarter, in line with analysts' average forecasts. But the outlook was a disappointment to some investors who had hoped Cisco would return to its usual brisk growth. 
 Mr. Chambers told analysts he expected Cisco to be able to deliver on its long-term goal of 12 to 17 percent annual growth.
 Cisco's switch business grew 3 percent, to $3.2 billion, while its router business increased 14 percent, to $2 billion. Together, the two businesses account for about 60 percent of Cisco's sales.
 ''It was an in-line quarter,'' said Troy Jensen, an analyst at Piper Jaffray. Mr. Jensen said he was encouraged by Cisco's forecast for the fourth quarter, which he had pegged at 8 to 9 percent. ''Obviously, there are some cracks, particularly in the U.S., but it feels like the worst is behind us.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cisco's business in routers, above, increased 14 percent, to $2 billion, and its switch business grew 3 percent, to $3.2 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES PLAN (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (98%); CISCO SYSTEMS FRANCE (92%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (51%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (98%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



191 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2364 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: May 7, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 SCANDAL LINKS ISRAELI LEADER
 With New York Developer
 A Long Island philanthropist and fund-raiser for Israeli charities is at the center of a scandal enveloping Israel's prime minister, Ehud Olmert, that has riveted and agitated Israel despite a veil of secrecy over the investigation. The inquiry appears to involve suspicion of bribery or campaign finance irregularities involving Mr. Olmert in 1999. PAGE A14 
 SCATTERED VIOLENCE IN IRAQ
 Violence struck areas of Baghdad and parts of central and northern Iraq, as a trickle of families left Sadr City to escape bombings and security forces raided a hospital suspected of treating militia forces. Three civilians were killed and nine were wounded in one clash in Baghdad, set off by assassinations of two dignitaries. PAGE A11 
 TOUGH TASKS AWAIT RUSSIAN PROTeGe
 When Dmitri A. Medvedev, Russia's president-elect, utters the oath of office in the splendor of St. Andrew's Hall, the ceremonies will mix Soviet nostalgia, czarist symbols and a Russian strut reflecting a renewed national pride credited to eight years of President Vladimir V. Putin's rule. But he will be taking charge of a position and policy challenges more difficult than the celebrations will suggest. PAGE A6 
 CHILEANS ORDERED TO FLEE VOLCANO
 The Chaiten volcano in southern Chile blasted ash and what appeared to be lava a dozen miles into the air, leading the government to order the immediate and complete evacuation of people living within 30 miles of the volcano. There have been no deaths or injuries reported, although a 92-year old woman died of a heart attack as she was evacuated from Chaiten. PAGE A6 
 3 TAIWAN OFFICIALS QUIT
 The foreign minister of Taiwan and two other top officials resigned over a botched attempt to win diplomatic recognition from Papua New Guinea, a scandal that has stirred public outrage against the departing government. About $30 million that Taipei had intended for Papua New Guinea in exchange for switching diplomatic allegiance from Beijing has disappeared. PAGE A8 E.U. Sues Italy Over Garbage A6 
 Greek Alarm Over African Refugees A15 
 National
 LAWYERS FOR DETAINEES 
 Accuse U.S. of Eavesdropping
 Lawyers for detainees at Guantanamo Bay said in a court filing that they believed that government agents were eavesdropping on their conversations with their clients. Some of the lawyers said their concerns made them alter the way they do work. One lawyer said he replaced his phone because he was certain it had been bugged. Another said she stopped accepting new clients because she could not promise them confidentiality. PAGE A16 
 BIG FISH TANKS GET BIGGER
 The Georgia Aquarium is already the world's largest, with eight million gallons of water and 80,000 animals. But now it wants to grow larger, and it announced a $110 million expansion for dolphin windows and dolphin shows. The John G. Shedd Aquarium in Chicago, which until 2005 was the holder of the world's largest aquarium title, now calls itself ''the world's aquarium,'' and a spokesman for the Shedd says personality matters more than size. PAGE A24 
 BEING THE BEST AT GARBAGE
 San Francisco recycles 70 percent of its disposable waste, but Mayor Gavin Newsom thinks the city can do better. He is pushing a plan that would make recycling of cans, bottles, paper, yard waste and food scraps mandatory. ''Without that, we don't think we can get to 75 percent,'' he said. PAGE A19 
 New York Report
 REPORT CITES HIGH RATE
 Of Doctors on Watch List
 A report by the Federation of State Medical Boards said that more than 2 percent of New York State's practicing doctors landed on a watch list indicating they had substance abuse problems, harassment complaints, or some other issues of concern -- more than twice the national average and seventh highest among all states. State health officials said that doctors in New York had a lower burden of proof for substantiating complaints against them. PAGE C15
 THURMAN'S STALKER CONVICTED
 Jack Jordan, a man who was charged with stalking and harassing Uma Thurman and her family, was convicted of stalking the actress and aggravated harassment for stuffing a love letter into the mail slot of her Greenwich Village town house. The judge said that he wanted Mr. Jordan to be evaluated by a psychiatrist as a guide to sentencing, which is scheduled for June. PAGE C14
 A GANG THAT ROBS DRUG DEALERS
 After a two-year investigation, prosecutors won the indictments of members of eight men who traveled up and down the East Coast, staking out drug dealers before robbing and torturing them for information. The thieves allegedly would stake out a victim for several weeks and tail him with G.P.S. devices before making their move. All of the men pleaded not guilty, and are being held without bond. PAGE C14 
 VILLAGE HOSPITAL PLAN IS REJECTED
 St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan had been pushing for a $1.6 billion development proposal within the Greenwich Village Historic District, which would have included demolishing nine buildings to build two massive towers. But that plan was sent back to the drawing board by the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission, to the delight of preservationists. PAGE C15 
 Business
 AFTER A SIX-YEAR SLIDE,
 Dollar May Bounce Back
 Just two weeks ago, the dollar hit a new low of $1.60 against the euro. But after it closed at $1.55 Tuesday, some economists think the dollar's long slide may be over, and that the dangers are over for a precipitous fall. Though it's not likely that the dollar will completely collapse, economists acknowledge that a collapse could occur if overseas investors start dumping dollars from their portfolios, fearing a decline. PAGE C1 
 IS THE ECONOMY AS BAD AS IT FEELS?
 David Leonhardt asks: if gas is heading toward $4 a gallon and retailers like Costco and Sam's Club are rationing rice to prevent people from hoarding it, why does the rate of inflation (4 percent) not seem to reflect how bad the economy appears to the casual observer? He says part of this can be attributed to loss aversion, the human tendency to dislike a loss more than they like a gain of equivalent size. So while people notice a jump in the price of eggs, they don't notice the equal drop in oranges. PAGE C1 
 UBS TO LAY OFF 5,500 WORKERS
 The Swiss banking giant UBS, which was hit harder than other European banks during the credit crisis, announced that it had sold $15 billion of subprime mortgage debt and would cut 5,500 jobs -- including 2,600 in New York and London. But UBS has other problems on the horizon, as customers are withdrawing money from its asset- and wealth-management business. PAGE C6 
 A BEAR STEARNS SURVIVOR
 At 80, Alan C. Greenberg is almost as old as Bear Stearns, the troubled Wall Street bank where he has worked for 59 years and which is about to be swallowed up by JPMorgan. Though he empathized with Bear employees who lost their jobs and their fortunes, it does not extend to the suffering of James E. Cayne, who wrested Bear from him and lost almost $900 million when Bear's price collapsed. ''Oh, really.'' Mr. Greenberg deadpans. ''Goodness, that's a shame.'' PAGE C1 
 ARTS
 SIMMERING ANTI-SEMITISM
 Mars a Vibrant Hungary
 The firebombing of a ticket booth that wouldn't sell tickets to a far-right rock band's shows, rallies by the right and left and a controversial art show are some of many signs that anti-Semitism is on the rise in Hungary. Some ascribe the development to a parallel rise in Jewish culture. ''A new generation of Jews has emerged,'' says one professor. ''To be Jewish today is a question of one's public culture.'' PAGE B1 
 RADIOHEAD BEGINS U.S. TOUR
 Radiohead played the first concert of its North Americantour in West Palm Beach, and nobody onstage was tan. ''We've just spent the last three days in Miami Beach,'' said Thom Yorke, the band's lead singer. ''For once I was proud to be white, pale and English.'' The show itself was also subdued, Ben Ratliff writes. Mr. Yorke got inside the music as he normally does, singing like a bowed string instrument, but he was rarely fully submerged. PAGE B1 
 RICHARD SERRA'S PARIS MOMENT
 France is making a fuss over Richard Serra, the 68-year-old American bantamweight who fashions gargantuan art out of steel. Mr. Serra opens the annual Monumenta show; the city of Paris has restored one of his earlier works to its place in the garden of the Tuileries; and he has been made a commander of the Order of Arts and Letters of the French Academy, a leap from his previous knighthood. PAGE B1 
 THE MAKING OF YELTSIN
 In the introduction to his biography of Boris N. Yeltsin, Timothy J. Colton lists more than 100 of the similes and analogies that have been applied over the years to Yeltsin, among them martyr and jester, Lincoln and Nixon, Alexander the Great and Ivan the Terrible, Hamlet and Hercules, bulldog and boa constrictor. It is an early signal that Mr. Colton knows he is treading into a subject that has inspired rival mythologies. A review by Bill Keller. PAGE B1 
 PHILHARMONIC MUSES ABOUT MUTI
 The announced union of Riccardo Muti and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra left 100 jilted suitors at Avery Fisher Hall. Even though the New York Philharmonic announced a new music director last summer, members of the orchestra, who have often spoken of their special relationship with Mr. Muti, had dearly wanted him in the post. ''I felt there was a relationship here, and he had committed to us,'' said one Philharmonic violist. PAGE B2 
 Manohla Dargis: Battle for Haditha B8 
 Ben Brantley: Glory Days B3 
 Sports
 HE COULD HAVE BEEN 
 A Contender, Sort of
 Pat Reynolds trained Big Brown, the Kentucky Derby winner, back when the horse was just getting into racing and before the horse's owner sold the horse. So Mr. Reynolds, who is known for getting the best from his horses but rarely has a quality horse to run, has some mixed emotions about Big Brown's win. ''He's going to be in demand, and that could have been me,'' he said of the horse's new trainer. ''That's the tough part to take.'' PAGE C20 
 DEBATING HORSE RACING'S ISSUES
 When Eight Belles was put down at last weekend's Kentucky Derby, it unleashed unease among casual race observers and protests among animal rights groups, which were following Barbaro's injury in the 2006 Preakness Stakes because so much of the coverage focused on the horse's fight for survival. But with Eight Belles euthanized, the debate over thoroughbred racing's related issues -- like steroids, the ages of horses and the quality of track surfaces -- have once again come to the fore. Sports of The Times, William C. Rhoden. PAGE C17 
 OBITUARIES
 IRVINE ROBBINS, 90
 An ice cream entrepreneur who with his brother-in-law, Burton Baskin, started the Baskin-Robbins chain of ice cream stores, he helped concoct the company's famous ''31 flavors,'' among them Daiquiri Ice, Pink Bubblegum, Here Comes the Fudge, Nuts to You, Rocky Road, Cafe Ole, Huckleberry Finn, chocolate cheesecake, pineapple coconut and Mr. Robbins's personal favorite, Jamoca almond fudge. PAGE A25 
 ALVIN COLT, 91
 A Tony Award-winning costume designer, he draped actors in everything from gamblers' pinstripes for ''Guys and Dolls'' to flowing robes for classic Shakespearean productions to vacuum cleaner hoses and Coca-Cola cans for recent spoofs of Broadway musicals. PAGE A25 
 Dining Out
 AT CULINARY SCHOOL,
 The Aroma of Revolution
 Instructors at the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y, gave Tim Ryan, the school's president, a no-confidence vote last month after complaining of shoddy equipment, slipping academic standards and accusing the administration of retaliating against its critics. Then the students voiced their discontent by hanging ''Fire Tim Ryan'' signs in their dorms and organizing online, and the administration prevented the campus newspaper from printing articles about the unrest. Mr. Ryan said likened the turmoil on campus to a family disagreement. But members of the faculty do not see it that way. PAGE D5 
 AN ONION PATCH GROWS IN BROOKLYN
 There are some peculiarities to gardening in inner cities. Corn attracts rats, so that's out. There's also the issue of lead in the soil, due to vehicle exhaust and remnants of old construction. But increasingly, residents of places like East New York and the South Bronx -- with low-income residents, high rates of obesity-related illnesses, and little in the way of fresh produce -- are using their backyards and neighborhood plots to grow food not just to feed their families but to sell to people on their block. PAGE D1 
 THE TOUGHEST TABLE IN TOWN
 There are restaurants in New York City where reservations are hard to wrangle. Then there's Momofuku Ko, which is one of the most talked about new restaurants in the city -- and has only 12 seats. Frank Bruni says that Ko also forgoes pomp and atmospherics. ''There's a plywood wall to your back and, in front of you, cooks so close you can count their beads of sweat as they not only prepare and plate your food but also hand it to you,'' he writes. PAGE D1 
 Is Organic Produce Better? D5 
 Mark Bittman: 
 Quiche, Sans Crust D3 
 Editorial
 IT'S ABOUT THE WHITE HOUSE
 While Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton contested Indiana and North Carolina, John McCain's speech about choosing conservative judges was a reminder of the bigger contest ahead -- between Republicans and Democrats. PAGE A26
 THE DEATH PENALTY RETURNS
 The next few months, as states put their machinery of death into overdrive, are an ideal time for the nation to rethink its commitment to capital punishment. PAGE A26
 DISASTER IN MYANMAR
 The world should help Myanmar recover and rebuild from its devastating cyclone -- and the country's repressive government should let the world help. PAGE A26
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 There are two important recessions going on in the world today. One is the economic recession in America. But it will eventually pass, and the world will not be much worse for the wear. The other is called ''the democratic recession,'' and if it isn't reversed, it will change the world for a long time. PAGE A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); REFUGEES (75%); DEATHS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); BRIBERY (71%); ANIMALS (62%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (62%); HOSPITALS (55%)

COMPANY: JOHN G SHEDD AQUARIUM (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS712130 ZOOS & BOTANICAL GARDENS (50%); SIC8422 ARBORETA & BOTANICAL OR ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS (50%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (88%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%) ISRAEL (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAQ (93%); TAIWAN (92%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (92%); CHILE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); GEORGIA (79%); CUBA (72%); ITALY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



192 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Butterflies Aren't Free

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
 In his memoir, the legendary Elia Kazan wrote about directing Vivien Leigh in ''A Streetcar Named Desire.'' While he did not think that Leigh was a great natural actress, he was impressed that she would crawl through glass to get the role right.
 Hillary Clinton may not be a great natural politician, but traveling across the country on her own Bus Named Desire, she has crawled through glass to get the role right. 
 She showed again with her squeaker win in Indiana that for many white working-class men, she is The Man -- more tenacious and less concerned with the judgments of the tony set, economists and editorial writers. Talking up guns, going to the Auto Racing Hall of Fame, speaking from the back of pickup trucks and doing shots of populism with a cynicism chaser, Hillary emerged from a lifetime of government limos to bask as queen of the blue-collar prom.
 Nobility is for losers. 
 Just as Obama spent his youth trying not to be threatening, so as not to unnerve whites, Hillary spent her life learning to be threatening so she could beat back challenges to her and her husband -- from Republicans and from ''bimbo eruptions'' and now from a charmed younger rival.
 As Obama learned to accommodate, the accommodating Hillary learned to triangulate and lacerate. As he learned that following the rules could get you far with adoring mentors, she learned from Bill and Dick Morris and Mark Penn that following the rules was for saps.
 Hillary is less Blanche than Scarlett. ''Heaven help the Yankees if they capture you,'' Rhett told the willful belle at the start of her rugged odyssey.
 And heaven help the Democrats as they try to shake off Hillary. On top of her inane vows to obliterate Iran, OPEC and the summer gas tax, she plans ''a nuclear option'' during her Shermanesque march to Denver. Tom Edsall reported on The Huffington Post that the Hillaryites will try, at a May 31 meeting of the Democratic Rules and Bylaws Committee, to renege on their word and get the Michigan and Florida delegations seated. As addressed supporters here, she urged the counting of the Florida and Michigan votes, noting ''it would be a little strange to have a nominee chosen by 48 states.'' 
 ''It's full speed onto the White House,'' she said.
 Fox News reports that the Clintons are planning a summer campaign with TV appearances, fliers and rallies, between the end of the primary and the convention, to drag back superdelegates trying to flock to Obama. The Democratic race has been a scorpion and a butterfly in a bottle. Hillary tore Barry's wings off, and so psyched him out with her silly goading ''Enough about the speeches and the big rallies!'' she cried -- that he gave up his magical trump cards.
 Wandering around Indiana, appearing in neighborhoods and at diners without any advance notice, talking to handfuls of people, Obama strived to seem less lofty and more mortal. Hounded by Hillary, Bill and Rev. Wright, he just looked sort of numb. When Obama went to an 11:30 p.m. shift change at an auto components plant here, a Newsday reporter on the scene noted that many of the white men ''were less likely to smile or look him in the eye or seem impressed with him.''
 In a restaurant in Greenwood on Tuesday, Obama approached an older white guy who waved him off, muttering afterwards to a reporter: ''I can't stand him. He's a Muslim. He's not even pro-American as far as I'm concerned.''
 Even though people at diners kept trying to fatten Obama up, he drew the line at gravy -- he looked increasingly diaphanous, like anti-matter to Hillary's matter. She's more appealing when she's beaten down; he's less imposing. Even his strategists admit that he will now need to ''step it up,'' as one said. And he did that with his victory speech in Raleigh, N.C., with a vivid paean to patriotism and ''telling the truth forcefully, repeatedly, confidently'' As one aide crowed, ''He's back!''
 It's hard to believe that this Hillary is the same Wellesley girl who said she yearned for a more ''ecstatic and penetrating mode of living.'' What would that young Hillary -- who volunteered on Gene McCarthy's anti-war campaign; who cried the day Martin Luther King Jr. was killed; who referred to some of her ''smorgasbord of personalities'' in a 1967 letter to a friend as an ''alienated academic,'' and an ''involved pseudo-hippie''; who once returned a bottle of perfume after feeling guilty about the poverty around her -- think of this shape-shifting, cynical Hillary?
 She's so at odds with who she used to be, even in the Senate, that if she were to get elected, who would voters be electing?
 Obama is like her idealistic, somewhat naive self before the world launched 1,000 attacks against her, turning her into the hard-bitten, driven politician who has launched 1,000 attacks against Obama.
 As she makes a last frenzied and likely futile attempt to crush the butterfly, it's as though she's crushing the remnants of her own girlish innocence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); WRITERS (73%); SUPERDELEGATES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); AUTO RACING (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%); BASK AS (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%); NAICS311212 RICE MILLING (69%); SIC2044 RICE MILLING (69%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (77%) INDIANA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



193 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Congress Weighs Veterans' Adjustment Aid

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii, badly wounded in World War II, reflects on the help he received in readjusting to civilian life after intense combat in Europe and finds today's government support for returning troops impersonal and inadequate.
 ''We can go back and learn a few lessons in humanizing the veterans administration,'' said Mr. Inouye, a Democrat awarded the Medal of Honor for his service in Italy. ''After all, this is their second chapter in life. Their first chapter is a life of discipline. Now they have to learn to become human beings.'' 
 Generations after the G.I. Bill set Mr. Inouye and millions of other veterans on the path to a college education, Congress is beginning a charged debate over improving benefits for veterans of the post-9/11 era.
 An emergency Pentagon spending measure scheduled to be considered by the House as early as Thursday would provide $720 million over two years to set up a program that would essentially underwrite a four-year public university education for anyone who has served on active duty for at least three years. 
 ''This is an effort to say thank you,'' Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said Tuesday as he announced a $183 billion measure that would cover the cost of fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan through early 2009. 
 On top of that amount, Democrats want to add $11 billion over 10 years to extend unemployment insurance, as well as money for the G.I. education benefits.
 Sponsored by Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, a Vietnam veteran and former Navy secretary, the measure has broad support in the House and Senate.
 But the Bush administration and prominent lawmakers, including Senator John McCain of Arizona, a veteran and the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, are resisting it.
 The divide threatens to erupt into a major election year issue as Democrats seek to portray opponents of the measure as neglecting those who volunteered to fight in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 ''I understand George Bush is against it and Senator McCain is against it, but every veterans' group is for it,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. ''This rights a wrong.''
 Acknowledging that the government needs to do more to help post-Sept. 11 veterans, Republicans in the House and Senate have put together an alternative to Mr. Webb's bill that builds on the current Montgomery G.I. bill. They say it would be more practical, cost less and encourage volunteers to stay in the military longer to maximize benefits. 
 ''I appreciate the effort, but I think the Webb plan is a bad approach to delivering education benefits to veterans that is going to be unnecessarily costly, that is complicated and has disparity in results that make no sense,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican who is an author of the alternative. ''We don't reinvent the wheel.''
 His plan would increase the monthly education stipend, to $1,500 a month from the current $1,100 maximum. The amount would be $2,000 for people who complete at least 12 years of service. 
 A central element of Mr. Graham's plan is a provision to allow the transfer of unused education benefits to spouses or children. Half the benefit would be given to a family member after six years, and 100 percent would eligible for transfer after 12 years.
 The Pentagon has embraced that concept and has raised concerns that a too generous education subsidy could be an incentive to quit the military after a member of the armed forces qualifies for the top benefit. 
 In a letter to Congress last week, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates wrote that Mr. Webb's proposal was at odds with attracting and retaining recruits.
 The bill has support from leading Republicans like Senator John W. Warner of Virginia, who is typically aligned with Mr. Graham and Mr. McCain. Mr. Warner, another beneficiary of the post-World War II G.I. benefits, said the Pentagon had for years had the authority to allow education benefits to be shared within families but had never pushed the program.
 Under Mr. Webb's bill, qualifying members of the armed services would be eligible for assistance at a state university that is equivalent to what in-state residents pay at the most expensive public university in the state, as well as help with housing and books. 
 Proponents say the program, which could cost tens of billions of dollars a year as more veterans take advantage, offers the guarantee of enough money for a full education rather than forcing people pursuing degrees to come up with money to offset any shortfall in federal aid.
 The proponents add that the transferability promoted by backers of the alternative measure takes the focus off the veteran who should be the main recipient of the assistance. 
 ''It is time for those of us who have been calling on these service members to serve again and again to assist in providing them with the most tangible thanks that our country can offer,'' Mr. Webb said.
 As Democrats moved their plan to tie the veterans' aid to the war spending measure, leading Republicans accused them of holding money for troops in the field hostage to efforts to expand federal programs. 
 Mr. Warner said the strategy was justified, telling reporters, ''If you have to get the job done, sometimes you have to use an unusual tactic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Jim Webb, right, with Sgt. J. P. Gautreaux of the Maryland National Guard at a rally last month for veterans' benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY BENEFITS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (85%); CAUCUSES (79%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); NAVIES (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); POLITICS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERATION AFTER (57%)

PERSON: DANIEL INOUYE (90%); JIM WEBB (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (56%); DAVE OBEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



194 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Filly's Death Raises Issues And Ire

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
For the last several days, the death of Eight Belles at the Kentucky Derby has become the talk of the nation. The filly's demise was especially sobering for casual fans, whose only contact with horse racing is through one of the Triple Crown races. 
 There have been the usual calls for reform and some have even suggested that Eight Belles's death was the beginning of the end of thoroughbred racing. I doubt that. Her death was not an obituary, but a stark warning to an industry in denial, a warning that it needs to initiate some reforms and do some soul-searching, and do it very soon. 
 Two years ago, Barbaro set off a national dialogue about thoroughbred racing. He won the 2006 Kentucky Derby by six and a half lengths. Two weeks later, he shattered his right hind ankle in the Preakness Stakes. 
 The major difference between Barbaro and Eight Belles is that Barbaro was injured during the race but was not euthanized until eight months later. For those eight months, the focus was on Barbaro's struggle to survive.
 Eight Belles never really had a chance to be cloaked in heroic armor, having been euthanized right on the track. As a result, in the vacuum after her death, scrutiny of this rough-and-tumble industry could become relentless, particularly as the other two legs of the Triple Crown, the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes, are run. 
 Ingrid Newkirk, the president of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, said that PETA would launch a series of initiatives designed to discourage fans from attending racetracks. 
 The organization has already taken aim at Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton. Last week, before the Derby, Clinton apparently played to the crowd by encouraging people to go to the Derby and bet on Eight Belles. In the wake of Eight Belles's death, PETA sent Clinton a page-long letter chiding her for supporting thoroughbred racing and asking her to denounce betting on the sport. 
 ''She's partly culpable because it's money that makes them race, and money that makes them race prematurely,'' Newkirk said Tuesday during a telephone interview. ''It was inappropriate.'' 
 I've always been leery of PETA, and even resentful of some of the group's over-the-top tactics to promote animal rights and to discourage cruelty to animals. But this much is certain: From the National Football League to clothing manufacturers, any number of people are reluctant to tangle with the group. 
 PETA staged protests Tuesday in Lexington, Ky., outside the offices of the state's horse racing regulators, and it plans to have a presence May 17 at the Preakness and again three weeks later at the Belmont. The goal is to make celebrities and vote-conscious politicians reluctant to attend the high-profile Triple Crown races.
 ''If we suddenly make it kind of tainted, it will not be really the place where you want to be seen,'' Newkirk said. ''We want other politicians, other people, not to wish to be associated with it.'' 
 Whatever PETA's aims may be, there are myriad issues to debate. 
 Medication is the mainstay of racing in the United States. If steroids are rampant in baseball, what are they in horse racing? If we've learned anything about steroids over the last 10 years, it is that they kill. 
 Faster but more fragile horses are being churned out -- not to race all that much, but to be sold to stud. What needs to be done about breeding?
 Should the age at which horses are allowed to race -- currently 2 -- be raised? 
 What about racing surfaces? There are indications, but no conclusive proof, that synthetic surfaces are safer. I suspect, however, that synthetic surfaces are becoming popular not so much to aid the horses, but to keep the surface consistent in order to make racing easier to schedule.
 The toll that the day-to-day grind takes on horses goes largely unnoticed. The Kentucky Derby, the Preakness and the Belmont present an unrealistic picture of thoroughbred racing. Come to a track in late November, when the stands are empty and a cold rain is falling and horses are being run to generate money for the simulcast handle. 
 Looking at all these issues makes you realize that trying to get your arms around horse racing is like trying to nail Jell-O to a tree. Even if Congress were outraged and so inclined, whom would it summon to Washington? Where is the accountability? If ever a sport needed a commissioner or a chief executive, it is horse racing. But there is no such person, so the issues may end up being debated without any real resolution, leaving us with intelligent voices, but no solutions. 
 One such voice is Bob Reeves, president of the Thoroughbred Horseman's Group, who says that ''this is an industry that needs direction.'' 
 His organization is an alliance of about 17 horsemen's groups covering more than 45 racetracks. Reeves agrees that horse racing desperately needs a central authority, but that is not his group's focus. Its priority is straightening out the simulcast model and increasing the percentage of money that horse owners receive from increased wagering on the Internet. 
 ''We're just trying to straighten the economics out first,'' Reeves said. ''If we don't straighten the economics out, you're not going to have to worry about all the rest.''
 But the general public cares far less about the economics of horse racing and far more about its impact on thoroughbreds. The death of Eight Belles should resonate in a way that forces reform. 
 We'll see.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PETA organized a protest Tuesday outside the headquarters of the Kentucky Horse Racing Authority in Lexington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENN ACKERMAN/LEXINGTON HERALD-LEADER) (pg.D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (89%); HORSES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (72%); ANIMALS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); ANIMAL WELFARE (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%); APPAREL MFG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (82%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



195 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Stability, Even Upturn, for Dollar

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After six years of stumbling against the euro, the dollar may be showing signs of getting back on its feet.
 Two weeks ago, the dollar hit a new low of $1.60 for the euro amid expectations of lower interest rates in the United States and possibly higher rates in Europe. President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and other European leaders expressed alarm over the dollar's decline and its devastating effect on Europe's exports.
 Since then, the dollar has strengthened -- it closed at $1.55 Tuesday -- and some economists say that even if it creeps down slightly, the dangers of a precipitous fall, at least against the euro, have subsided.
 Economists point out that American policy makers, particularly Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, have begun to voice concern about the dollar's fall and its inflationary effect in the United States, where a weak currency has increased the cost of oil and other imports for the American consumer. 
 ''I am struck by Bernanke's concern about prices when he talks about the dollar as a factor in inflation,'' said Vincent Reinhart, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and former director of monetary affairs at the Federal Reserve. ''The balance is shifting toward a little more concern about the dollar.''
 Although many economists consider an all-out collapse of the dollar unlikely, they acknowledge that such a collapse could occur if overseas investors, fearing a relentless decline, start dumping dollars from their portfolios -- accelerating exactly what they fear might happen.
 While concerned about the dollar's value against the euro, of course, the United States has taken the opposite approach toward China and some other Asian economies.
 The Bush administration, for example, continues to press China to let its currency, the yuan, appreciate against the dollar. The yuan has already climbed more than 18 percent against the dollar since mid-2005, making Chinese goods more expensive in the United States.
 That shift, in turn, has eased the clamor in Congress for trade sanctions against China. 
 But economists say any possible stabilizing of the dollar against the euro can be sustained only if there is a shift in economic fundamentals toward a recovery in the United States and a slowdown in Europe. 
 The dollar's recent strength may be an anticipation of such trends. But it is also seen as a response to the Fed's expected pause in interest rate cuts and to recent statements by financial officials from the major economic powers.
 A major contributor to the recent trend is the signal from the Federal Reserve that after lowering interest rates slightly, it would pause before lowering rates further to avoid adding fuel to inflation. One reason the dollar had fallen is that money market investors have shifted to the euro in search of higher interest rates.
 Economists said the Fed's decision to indicate a pause in lowering interest rates was based not simply on its concern about inflation but also on worries over the dollar. The Fed, they said, did not want the dollar to plunge further -- or to encourage even the remote possibility of dollar dumping by foreign investors.
 ''The decline of the dollar is a factor weighing on the Fed that makes them more reluctant to continue easing interest rates,'' said Laurence Meyer, vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers and a former Fed governor.
 Another factor in the dollar's apparent stabilizing was a statement by finance ministers of the major industrial economies last month -- little noticed by the public but carefully scrutinized by financial experts -- indicating that the United States and its partners were not prepared to let the dollar plummet endlessly.
 On April 11, the finance ministers of the United States, Canada, Japan and Europe said they were ''concerned'' about recent ''sharp fluctuations in major currencies,'' a statement widely seen as endorsing the possibility of an intervention by the United States Treasury and other finance ministries to prevent a steep drop in the dollar's value.
 Pressed to explain what the statement meant, Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, said that ''it's a very touchy issue'' but that the statement was ''like a poem -- it speaks for itself.''
 In case it did not, perhaps, Prime Minister Francois Fillon of France told reporters last week that France was prepared to lead a ''coordinated response'' of major economic powers to relieve what he said were global currency imbalances, including an undervalued dollar.
 Many economists say the statement of the finance ministers -- all members of the Group of 7 nations -- was an important factor in strengthening the dollar.
 ''The modest wording change in the G-7 statement was important,'' said Peter Hooper, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. ''It reflected European concern about how far out of line the dollar was, and the United States not wanting to give the impression that they were totally disengaged on the dollar.'' 
 Bush administration officials say that despite the G-7 statement, it would be anathema for them even to contemplate an intervention to keep the dollar from falling. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has repeatedly stated that currencies rise and fall depending on basic economic fundamentals and that interventions do not work.
 But the fact that the American export sector is reaping the benefits of a lower-valued dollar, which is making American goods cheaper overseas, makes some people in Europe think that the administration has a policy of ''benign neglect'' on the dollar's fall. In recent months, exports have surged 9.5 percent over their level a year ago.
 The International Monetary Fund, which monitors currency fluctuations, has concluded that, given long-term trends, the euro and the dollar are in a state of equilibrium, whereas both the dollar and euro are overvalued related to the Chinese yuan, the Japanese yen and some other Asian currencies.
 For many economists, the decline of the dollar against the euro or other currencies is more a function of the American trade deficit than its interest rate policies. In other words, as the United States imports more than it exports, businesses overseas pile up hundreds of billions of dollars that they sell when they convert to their own currencies.
 ''I think the dollar depreciates because of the fundamental trade imbalance,'' said Martin Feldstein, professor of economics at Harvard. ''Interest rates contribute to that in a small way, but the key driver is the $700 billion trade deficit.''
 Mr. Feldstein said that as a result, he projects that the dollar may still have further to decline because, although the trade balance has narrowed recently, it is a long way from disappearing. ''I think the dollar has substantially further to fall,'' he said. 
 ''Is this terrible? Not really. It's the natural way for the trade deficit to be reduced.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Francois Fillon, left, of France met with Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chief, in Washington last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (pg.C11) CHARTS: After hitting a new low against the euro two weeks ago, the dollar has moved a bit higher on signs that economic and financial factors may help stabilize it. (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TRENDS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%); FRANCOIS FILLON (56%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (93%); FRANCE (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



196 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: Hard Tasks Lie Ahead For Protege In Russia

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS; Michael Schwirtz contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
When Dmitri A. Medvedev, Russia's president-elect, utters the oath of office on Wednesday in the splendor of St. Andrew's Hall, the ceremonies will mix Soviet nostalgia, czarist symbols and a Russian strut reflecting a renewed national pride credited to eight years of President Vladimir V. Putin's rule. 
 The Kremlin then plans to crown the occasion on Friday with a triumphant military parade in Red Square of a sort not seen since the cold war years, complete with flyovers of strategic bombers and rumbling columns of tanks.
 Mr. Medvedev, 42, will be Russia's third post-Soviet president and newest source of speculation. He has presented a puzzling self-portrait, at times suggesting that major changes are necessary -- including attacking the country's manifest corruption and reducing the bloat of its bureaucracy -- and at other times insisting that he will broadly follow the path chosen by Mr. Putin, his sponsor. 
 There is no doubt, however, that he will be taking charge of a portfolio and a position more difficult than the celebrations will suggest.
 The policy challenges are unenviable, even if Russia has recovered from its severely weakened state. Mr. Medvedev faces steeply rising inflation, an outsize bureaucracy, pervasive corruption, a weak judicial system and a population decline fueled by a low birthrate, substandard health care and poor public health. 
 The economy is narrow and excessively dependent on natural resource wealth, while many sectors -- including agriculture and high technology -- are underdeveloped. Russia's ruling cliques of bureaucrats, businessmen and former security-service officers, whose loyalties to Mr. Medvedev are untested, have been divided by infighting.
 Mr. Medvedev also faces tensions in the Caucasus, along Russia's mountainous southwestern border, where Georgia, a former Kremlin satellite, has accused Russia of beginning to annex the separatist enclave of Abkhazia, and of risking war.
 Moreover, Mr. Medvedev, who will appoint Mr. Putin as prime minister as soon as Thursday, will rule through a new governing model and with an uncertain power base. His stature has been undermined even before his inauguration by reports that Mr. Putin intends to continue wielding power from the prime minister's suite. 
 One Russian newspaper reported this week that Mr. Putin planned to increase the number of deputy prime ministers almost twofold, providing jobs for his entourage and institutionalizing the notion of a strong premier who controls most of the affairs of state.
 Stephen Sestanovich, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington, said that whatever policy choices Mr. Medvedev ultimately made, the degree to which he would be able to pursue his own vision for Russia's future, as opposed to being confined by Mr. Putin, was not yet clear. 
 ''Does he have any power?'' Mr. Sestanovich said. ''Is he a decorative figure?''
 He added, ''Of course, we just don't know about any of that yet.''
 By many measures, and despite some spectacular setbacks and missteps, Mr. Putin's years of rule were accompanied by a variety of accomplishments, all unforeseen when he stepped from spymaster obscurity eight years ago. 
 Personal incomes for many Russians rose sharply, Russian troops and their proxies defeated and marginalized the bulk of separatist forces in Chechnya, and the Kremlin paid down foreign debts ahead of schedule. 
 The value of the Russian stock market skyrocketed. The country's main cities entered construction booms, and urban shops filled with goods. Consumer lifestyles and foreign vacations became available to a large segment of the population for the first time. 
 Mr. Putin simultaneously played foil to the United States, hosting or meeting national leaders at odds with Washington: Aleksandr G. Lukashenko of Belarus, Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, Islam A. Karimov of Uzbekistan and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, among others. He reminded his audiences that he had consistently opposed the invasion of Iraq and what he called American interference in the domestic affairs of former Soviet states.
 After the economic collapse and public embarrassments that accompanied the administration of President Boris N. Yeltsin, national pride was significantly restored. Many Russians now plan for their futures in ways they could not a decade ago. 
 But fresh problems have emerged, and problems that thus far have eluded Kremlin solutions remain. Mr. Medvedev, who favors yoga over Mr. Putin's sport of judo, faces several problems that continue to darken projections about Russia's future.
 Chief among them, said Anders Aslund, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, in Washington, are inflation, the poor state of public infrastructure and endemic corruption.
 During Mr. Putin's first year in office, oil prices were $20 to $30 a barrel. Today, oil prices hover around $120. Russia is the world's largest energy exporter, and the oil price spike accounted for a large part of Russia's economic turnaround.
 But the hot economy has created new pressures. The cost of living has soared, pushed upward by a real estate bubble and climbing prices for utilities, gasoline and food. 
 Inflation has topped 13 percent, spreading dissatisfaction and worry among many Russians, especially pensioners, who remember the inflation of the 1990s. The middle class is pinched, too. This month, gasoline prices reached nearly $1 a liter, more than $3.50 a gallon -- a considerable expense for a nation with typical household income still a fraction of that in the West.
 Several Russian officials have hinted that Russia will soon allow the ruble to strengthen as a means of cooling down the economy. ''A main concern is to bring down inflation, and the only way to do it is to let the ruble float upwards,'' Mr. Aslund said. ''I think that Medvedev will get on the strong ruble bandwagon.''
 Long-term solutions are more challenging. Oil production has begun to decline, and Russia's infrastructure largely dates to Soviet times. The huge investments required to revive both would create more inflationary pressures.
 Mr. Aslund said efforts at capital investment risked being squandered by corruption, which is so pervasive that kickbacks on public works and energy projects can reach 50 percent.
 ''You can't build infrastructure if half the invested money has to go to kickbacks,'' he said.
 Mr. Medvedev, who has made social issues and social stability centerpieces of his public remarks, also assumes the presidency of a nation at risk of a sharp population decline.
 Russian public health is poor enough, and the birthrate low enough, that even as Russia has transformed itself, its population has shrunk. Mr. Putin introduced incentives two years ago to encourage women to have more children. In 2007 there was an increase in the birthrate and a small decrease in the death rate.
 But Murray Feshbach, a demographer who studies Russian public health, said the demographics still looked bleak, in part because the number of women from 20 to 29 years old -- those who in Russia account for most births -- would begin to decline in 2012.
 The population is also infected with tuberculosis at more than twice the rate considered an epidemic by the World Health Organization. Deaths from AIDS are rising. An outbreak of hepatitis C, which has a long gestation period, is anticipated within five years.
 Without comprehensive programs to contain those diseases and reduce the death rate, Dr. Feshbach said, Russia risks a dwindling labor pool and further declines in the size of its armed forces in the decades ahead. 
 ''You have to attack all of these problems simultaneously,'' Dr. Feshbach said. Otherwise, he added, ''the basic thrust is downward and downward.''
 Mr. Sestanovich said there had been signs in Mr. Medvedev's speeches that he saw the world in ways different from his predecessor. He has called for outside experts to challenge the government's thinking, emphasized the need to shrink the government's size and powers, and challenged the assumption, integral to centralized planners, that the state must produce prosperity.
 ''He's not just running against the '90s, as Putin did,'' Mr. Sestanovich said. ''There is a kind of awareness in Medvedev that he has to deal with things that went a little wrong under Putin.'' 
 He added that some of the tasks Mr. Medvedev had set for himself might be beyond his immediate reach, and that they would provide a means over time to measure his power. ''Reeling in the power of the state bureaucracy?'' he said. ''That's a pretty tall order.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, right, with Dmitri A. Medvedev, at an Orthodox Easter service last month. Mr. Medvedev will be sworn in as Mr. Putin's successor on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI ILNITSKY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); COLD WAR (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); INFLATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (65%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); POPULATION DECLINE (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); GEORGIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



197 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Obama Wins Easily in North Carolina, and Clinton Barely in Indiana

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Reporting was contributed by Patrick Healy, Carl Hulse, Dalia Sussman and Megan Thee.

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama won a commanding victory in the North Carolina primary on Tuesday and lost narrowly to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in Indiana, an outcome that injected a boost of momentum to Mr. Obama's candidacy as the Democratic nominating contest entered its final month.
 The results from the two primaries, the largest remaining Democratic ones, assured that Mr. Obama would widen his lead in pledged delegates over Mrs. Clinton, providing him with new ammunition as he seeks to persuade Democratic leaders to coalesce around his campaign. He also increased his lead in the popular vote in winning North Carolina by more than 200,000 votes.
 ''Don't ever forget that we have a choice in this country,'' Mr. Obama said in an address in Raleigh, N.C., that carried the unity themes of a convention speech. ''We can choose not to be divided; that we can choose not to be afraid; that we can still choose this moment to finally come together and solve the problems we've talked about all those other years in all those other elections.'' 
 In winning North Carolina by 14 percentage points, Mr. Obama -- whose campaign had been embattled by controversy over the incendiary remarks of his former pastor -- recorded his first primary victory in nearly two months. His campaign was preparing to open a new front in his battle with Mrs. Clinton, intensifying the argument to uncommitted Democratic superdelegates that he weathered a storm and that the time was dawning for the party to concentrate on the general election.
 But as Mrs. Clinton addressed her supporters at a rally in Indianapolis on Tuesday evening, it was clear the fight was not over. In the first three minutes of her address, she asked supporters to contribute money, saying, ''Tonight, I need your help to continue this journey.''
 Clinton advisers acknowledged that the results of the primaries were far less than they had hoped, and said they were likely to face new pleas even from some of their own supporters for her to quit the race. They said they expected fund-raising to become even harder; one adviser said the campaign was essentially broke, and several others refused to say whether Mrs. Clinton had lent the campaign money from her personal account to keep it afloat. 
 The advisers said they were dispirited over the loss in North Carolina, after her campaign -- now working off a shoestring budget as spending outpaces fund-raising -- decided to allocate millions of dollars and full days of the candidate and her husband in the state. Even with her investment, Mr. Obama outspent Mrs. Clinton in both states.
 For several hours, incomplete results from Lake County in Indiana -- home to the city of Gary, just across the state line from Chicago -- left the statewide tally in doubt. The delay meant that Mrs. Clinton did not appear on television until well after Mr. Obama, allowing him to put his stamp of victory on the evening. 
 With six primaries remaining on the Democratic calendar, the fight between Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton now turns to Washington. The Obama campaign was poised to present a new cache of superdelegates -- the party officials who may have to settle the nominating fight -- as early as Wednesday to press its case that the results from Tuesday are reason enough to back his candidacy and end the torturous nominating fight.
 In his speech earlier in the evening, Mr. Obama, of Illinois, congratulated Mrs. Clinton ''for what appears to be her victory in the great state of Indiana.'' Then, he used his televised forum to deliver a speech highlighting how he was likely to come under attack. In doing so, he made an argument for his viability in a general election, which his rivals believe has been damaged because of his association with his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr..
 ''Yes, we know what's coming; I'm not naive,'' Mr. Obama said, adding, ''The attempts to play on our fears and exploit our differences, to turn us against each other for political gain, to slice and dice this country into red states and blue states; blue-collar and white-collar; white, black, brown; young, old; rich, poor.''
 ''This is the race we expect'' regardless of who is the Democratic nominee, he went on. ''The question, then, is not what kind of campaign they will run; it's what kind of campaign we will run.''
 Democrats said they expect to see more superdelegates flow to Mr. Obama in the next few days, including perhaps some now aligned with Mrs. Clinton. 
 Senator Claire McCaskill, an Obama supporter from Missouri, called the results ''a big, big night'' for Mr. Obama given the Wright episode. ''This shows he can take major blows and kind of rise above it,'' Ms. McCaskill said. ''I think there was a sense that she has some momentum, and I think it has just ground to a screeching halt tonight.''
 Despite Mrs. Clinton's performance, she pledged to take her campaign to West Virginia, Kentucky and the other states remaining on the primary calendar. And the campaign has been pushing the cause of seating disputed delegates from Florida and Michigan, states that were penalized for holding primaries before party rules allowed.
 ''You know it seems, it would be a little strange to have a nominee chosen by 48 states,'' she told her supporters in Indianapolis. ''We've got a long road ahead, but were going to keep fighting on that path because America is worth fighting for.''
 The Rules and Bylaws Committee of the Democratic National Committee will convene on May 31 to settle the issue of whether to seat the delegates from those two states.
 Going forward, both candidates intend to spend time in Washington, courting superdelegates and party officials.
 Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, an Obama supporter, said the candidate accomplished what he needed to by outperforming expectations in both states and showing that Mr. Wright was not driving off voters en masse. ''The next question will be what happens with the undecided superdelegates,'' Mr. Nelson said. ''Will they begin to come his way? I don't see anything to suggest they should start going her way.''
 In North Carolina, Mr. Obama's performance was bolstered by a strong black vote. He captured more than 90 percent of those voters in that state, where blacks accounted for one in three voters. But over all, Mrs. Clinton continued to draw strong support among whites, particularly older women.
 The voting in Indiana and North Carolina came at the conclusion of an acrimonious two-week campaign that found Mr. Obama on the defensive over incendiary remarks by Mr. Wright. Yet there was little evidence either argument caused significant shifts in electoral patterns of previous states, with most Clinton voters saying the Wright episode affected their vote and Obama backers saying it had not.
 Once again, Mrs. Clinton drew most of her support from women and older voters. Mr. Obama held onto his mainstays of support -- blacks, young voters and liberals -- and made small gains in Indiana with lower-income white voters who have eluded him in the past.
 In both states, the candidates' final arguments centered on a summertime suspension of the federal gasoline tax, which Mrs. Clinton proposed as an economic lift for voters and Mr. Obama derided as a political gimmick. 
 At this stage in the nominating fight, most voters seemed to have settled on their preferences before the battle intensified. Only a quarter of voters in Indiana decided whom to support in the last week, and a majority backed Mrs. Clinton,while one in five voters in North Carolina also decided late, and most of them backed Mr. Obama. 
 The country's economic condition was listed as the chief concern of the Democratic primary voters. About 9 in 10 voters in Indiana and 8 in 10 voters in North Carolina said the economic slowdown had affected their family at least somewhat.
 At least three in five voters in both states said the economy was the most important problem facing the country, according to surveys of voters leaving polling places that were conducted in both states by Edison/Mitofsky for the television networks and The Associated Press.
 In Indiana, about 8 in 10 voters were white and about 15 percent were black. Six in 10 of the whites voted for Mrs. Clinton; about 9 in 10 blacks favored Mr. Obama.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, celebrating Tuesday night in Raleigh, N.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton taking the stage to speak to supporters in Indianapolis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Supporters enthusiastically shared their message as they waited for Senator Barack Obama at a rally Tuesday night in Raleigh, N.C. Mr. Obama won the state by more than 200,000 votes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, greeting voters Tuesday night after his victory in the North Carolina primary. Six contests remain in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) GRAPH: Results from Tuesday's primaries in Indiana and North Carolina. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SUPERDELEGATES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (88%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); GARY, IN, USA (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



198 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Peak in Price Of Gasoline Seen in June

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil jumped to another record on Tuesday, and the government said it expected gasoline prices to peak at a national average of $3.73 a gallon in June, just as the summer driving season kicks off.
 The new forecast from the Energy Department came on a day oil futures rose above $122 a barrel in New York trading after rebels in Nigeria renewed their attacks against oil installations. By day's end, crude oil for June delivery closed at a record $121.84 a barrel, up 1.6 percent from Monday's close.
 Oil prices have nearly doubled in a year. Gasoline is selling for a national average of about $3.61 a gallon, according to AAA, the automobile club, a penny less than the record set on May 1 but 58 cents higher than a year ago. 
 Some private analysts have gone beyond the Energy Department's forecasts, predicting that gasoline will surpass $4 a gallon this summer.
 Domestic gasoline consumption is likely to fall more steeply than expected this year, the Energy Department said, an indication that higher prices are cutting into the driving habits of many Americans. But gasoline prices are expected to rise nonetheless and should average $3.52 a gallon for the full year, or 71 cents above their average price in 2007, according to the government's latest estimates. 
 ''In the past, high prices could be offset by borrowing or making more money,'' said Adam Robinson, an analyst at Lehman Brothers. ''It's really when you have the triple bite -- a weaker economy, less access to credit, and higher prices -- that you see the consumer recoil.'' 
 The high cost of fuel has become a major issue in the presidential race, with the Democratic candidates, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, clashing over a summer waiver of the 18.4-cents-a-gallon federal gasoline tax. 
 The gas tax holiday is supported by Senator Clinton and the presumptive Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, who have both said it would provide some relief in the summer driving season. Senator Obama calls the idea ''pandering'' and said that cutting the tax would spur more consumption, pushing prices back up. 
 In its monthly report, the Energy Department projected that domestic petroleum consumption would decline by about 190,000 barrels a day this year, a result of the economic slowdown and high prices. That is a sharper drop than the 90,000-barrel-a-day decline projected by the department last month.
 After accounting for increased ethanol use, domestic consumption will fall by 330,000 barrels a day, or less than 1 percent of total gasoline demand. While limited, it would be the first annual decline in gasoline demand since 1991. 
 The Energy Department expects oil prices to average $110 a barrel this year, about $9 more than its previous outlook. 
 Despite these higher costs, global oil demand is still projected to rise by 1.2 million barrels a day this year, mostly because of growing consumption in China, the Middle East, Russia, Brazil and India. 
 China alone will account for a third of the jump in consumption. In March, Chinese imports rose by 800,000 barrels a day, compared with levels a year earlier, a big increase that could mean China is filling its oil reserve needs before the start of the Olympic Games this summer.
 Oil supplies, meanwhile, continue to lag behind. After a drop in Nigerian output last month, production by OPEC nations fell 1 percent in April, according to a survey by Bloomberg News. 
 Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries pumped an average of 32.1 million barrels a day last month, down 320,000 barrels from March, according to the survey of oil companies, producers and analysts. 
 Nigerian production dropped by 160,000 barrels, to an average of 1.88 million barrels a day, the country's lowest level since August 1999. The country's output suffered from a strike by Exxon Mobil workers. Adding to these troubles, rebel militants have apparently resumed their attacks on oil companies in the Niger Delta, forcing Royal Dutch Shell to reduce production. 
 As demand continues to outpace the growth in oil supplies, analysts expect little relief in prices. A shortfall in supplies over the next two years will probably send oil to $150 to $200 a barrel, Goldman Sachs said in a new report.
 Analysts' forecasts for the price of gasoline over the next few years run as high as $7 a gallon. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With gasoline prices at record highs, a station in Nashville posted prices in terms other than dollars and cents on Sunday. Gasoline sells currently for $3.61 a gallon on average, AAA says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN PARTIPILO/THE TENNESSEAN VIA THE ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); GASOLINE (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ALCOHOLS (73%); ETHANOL (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); TAX RELIEF (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



199 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: No Signs of a Slowdown In Traffic at Disney's Parks

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Mickey Mouse, so far at least, is not a discretionary expense.
 Consumers, buffeted by rising costs for gasoline and groceries, have been finding ways to cut back on nonessential spending. But the Walt Disney Company said Tuesday that it saw no weakness in its theme park business, a unit that has come under scrutiny as an indicator of whether declining consumer confidence is seeping into more nooks and crannies of the economy.
 Disney, reporting results for its fiscal second quarter, said that operating income in its parks and resorts division rose 33 percent on revenue of $2.7 billion. The Easter holiday, which fell early this year, delivered a significant lift. But even when the Easter bump was factored out, attendance at Disney's theme parks was slightly higher, Thomas O. Staggs, the company's chief financial officer, said in a conference call with analysts. 
 ''Our parks offer a unique experience that simply is not available elsewhere,'' said Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive. Mr. Iger declined to speculate on how the parks would fare in the months ahead, but noted that hotel room reservations at Walt Disney World in Florida were ''very strong'' in April, the first month of Disney's third quarter.
 For the first three months of 2008, Disney reported net income of $1.1 billion, or 58 cents a share, a 22 percent rise from $931 million, or 44 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 9.5 percent, to $8.71 billion.
 Strong DVD sales for ''Enchanted'' and ''No Country for Old Men'' helped drive a 61 percent jump in profit at Walt Disney Studios. The division also got a lift from blockbuster ticket sales for ''Hannah Montana/Miley Cyrus: Best of Both Worlds Concert Tour.'' The movie, presented in 3-D, was filmed on a shoestring budget but generated more than $65 million in tickets at North American theaters.
 At the media networks unit, which includes ABC and ESPN, profit soared 14 percent on revenue of $1.3 billion. Disney said that ESPN had benefited in the quarter from contractual increases in carriage fees from cable networks. ABC Studios, which produces shows like ''Grey's Anatomy,'' fueled the rise in profit because it recorded lower production costs. 
 Because Disney's theme parks, a $10.6 billion annual business, have faltered during previous recessions, investors and the media have been watching their performance for clues about the health of the economy. Vacations to Disneyland in Southern California and Walt Disney World have grown significantly more expensive in recent months as gasoline prices surge and air fares increase.
 But many analysts caution against reading too much into the results, arguing that fundamental changes in the travel business since previous slowdowns have made the business a less-reliable prognosticator.
 The number of advance hotel bookings, for instance, has traditionally been used to measure the health of the business. Yet Americans have moved toward more last-minute bookings, in part because of the rise of Internet travel sites.
 Disney's parks also offer an array of hotels very different from what was available during past economic slowdowns. During the recession in the early 1990s, for instance, 55 percent of the company's hotel rooms at Walt Disney World fell in the premium category. Mr. Iger said 75 percent of hotels rooms at the resort now fall in the ''moderately priced or value priced'' category.
 Mr. Iger said that the domestic parks were benefiting from the weak dollar and noted that Disney had invested in new attractions over the last two years that were helping to keep interest high among vacationers. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An air show near Walt Disney World in Lake Buena Vista, Fla. Attendance at Disney's theme parks is up this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE DUNCAN/DISNEY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); RECESSION (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EASTER SEASON (75%); MOVIE REVENUES (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); TICKET SALES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); RESORTS (71%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (69%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (64%); AIR FARES (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (82%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (55%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (82%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (72%); MILEY CYRUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008



200 of 781 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: For Clinton, Options Seem to Dwindle

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; John M. Broder contributed reporting from Indianapolis and Marjorie Connelly from New York.

 BODY:
In this case, a split was not a draw.
 Despite narrowly winning Indiana, while losing North Carolina, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton did not fundamentally improve her chances of securing the Democratic presidential nomination. If anything, Mrs. Clinton's hopes for overtaking Senator Barack Obama dwindled further on Tuesday night. 
 For Mr. Obama, the outcome came after a brutal period in which he was on the defensive over the inflammatory comments of his former pastor. That he was able to hold his own under those circumstances should allow him to make a case that he has proved his resilience in the face of questions about race, patriotism and political mettle -- the very kinds of issues that the Clinton campaign has suggested would leave him vulnerable in the general election. 
 Beating Mr. Obama in Indiana, a state he had once been confident of winning, was an achievement for Mrs. Clinton. But it was hardly the kind of strong victory she posted in Pennsylvania and Ohio. And when paired with his comfortable victory in North Carolina -- which Mr. Obama pointedly described in his victory speech as ''a big state, a swing state'' -- it hardly seemed enough for Mrs. Clinton to convince so-called uncommitted superdelegates to rally around her candidacy.
 Her showing in the two states did not permit Mrs. Clinton to cut into Mr. Obama's lead in pledged delegates or his overall lead in the popular vote. 
 Indeed, Mr. Obama may have widened his delegate lead over Mrs. Clinton, an outcome with mathematic and political resonance.
 The result was so tight as to deprive her of the kind of clear-cut victory that would make it easy for her to fend off calls for her to drop out, raise money and campaign on into West Virginia in advance of a primary there next Tuesday where her campaign is confident of doing well.
 In the last several weeks, Mrs. Clinton, seizing on the campaign's new focus on the weakening economy, seemed to find new energy and a more populist voice. She ran hard on a proposal to suspend the federal gasoline tax, an idea that Mr. Obama scorned. As she battled away, Mr. Obama struggled to explain his relationship with his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., and his apparent inability to appeal to blue-collar voters. Polls suggested that Democrats were starting to develop doubts about the strength of his candidacy.
 In short, Mrs. Clinton could not have asked for a better second chance to turn this campaign around and to make her central case to superdelegates: that Mr. Obama was a damaged general election candidate who would get swallowed up by the Republican Party.
 Yet she was unable on Tuesday to build her base of support substantially beyond the white, working-class voters who had sustained her for the last month. That will not be lost on the superdelegates, the elected Democrats and party leaders who will ultimately decide this fight.
 And the superdelegates are where the fight is moving: after 50 nominating contests, there are only 6 left, with just 217 pledged delegates left to be elected, not enough to get either of them over the 2,025 threshold necessary to win the nomination. 
 Mr. Obama's aides said Mrs. Clinton would have to win close to 70 percent of the remaining pledged delegates and superdelegates to win the nomination, a shift in the campaign's trajectory that would seem possible only if some big development came along to hurt Mr. Obama.
 ''Unfortunately for her, the math reasserts itself,'' said Carter Eskew, a Democratic consultant not affiliated with either candidate. ''I don't think this changes very much of anything''
 Mrs. Clinton made clear in her speech that she would ''go forward in this campaign,'' noting that she had won a state where Mr. Obama had once expected victory and asserting that she remained close to Mr. Obama in the popular vote and delegates. 
 With few states left, she and her aides said they would step up their efforts to count the disputed results in Florida and Michigan, where the states held contests in defiance of Democratic Party rules. If Mrs. Clinton can win the battle to have the delegations from those two states seated at the conventions on the basis of the vote there, she could greatly reduce Mr. Obama's lead in pledged delegates.
 But neither candidate actively campaigned in Florida or Michigan, and Mr. Obama did not appear on the Michigan ballot. 
 Still, in a sign of where the Clinton campaign is going, her aides are asserting that the winner will need 2,209 delegates, not 2,025. That higher number reflects the full inclusion of Florida and Michigan, which held their primaries before the date permitted by the Democratic Party. 
 The goal of the Clinton campaign here is not just to get the delegate votes counted but also to get superdelegates to consider the popular vote Mrs. Clinton won in those two states; in some calculations that would put her over the top. The party's Rules and Bylaws Committee is meeting in Washington at the end of the month to vote on an effort by the Clinton campaign to permit the seating of the delegations.
 ''We're going to argue that it's going to take 2,209 to get to the magic number,'' said Howard Wolfson, one of Mrs. Clinton's chief strategists. ''We're going to argue that Florida and Michigan need to be seated full-strength.''
 The other big hope for the Clinton campaign is making the argument that Mr. Obama would suffer against Senator John McCain, the likely Republican presidential nominee. The exit polls gave Mrs. Clinton ammunition in that regard: half the Democrats who voted in Indiana and North Carolina said Mr. Obama's association with Mr. Wright was very or somewhat important. 
 And in Indiana, for example, less than half of Mrs. Clinton's supporters said they would support Mr. Obama in a general election, while one-third said they would vote for Mr. McCain. About one-fifth of Mr. Obama's supporters in Indiana said they would vote for Mr. McCain in a general election should Mrs. Clinton get the nomination. Many of those Democrats can probably be expected to stay with their party in the end, but the figures suggest the intensity of the passion dividing Clinton and Obama supporters at the moment and the challenge facing the eventual nominee in uniting the party.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Volunteers prepared giant balloons spelling ''Hillary'' for an election event Tuesday night at the Murat Center in Indianapolis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SUPERDELEGATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FUEL TAX (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%) INDIANA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008

 
