

1 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 7; On Baseball

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: The Folly of Forecasting A Braves Breakdown

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

DATELINE: KISSIMMEE, Fla. 

 BODY:
YOU have to like this view of the Atlanta Braves. It's offered by the team's general manager, John Schuerholz.
 ''The greatest winning streak in baseball is our winning 12 consecutive division titles,'' he said the other day. ''The second-longest streak is the number of years people have predicted our demise.'' 
 Those people are at it again this year, and as John Smoltz remarked: ''One of these years people are going to be right. Let's just hope it's not any time soon.''
 This observer of the Braves and their first-class organization has long been a believer and continues to be. In the questionable practice of predicting division winners six months before anyone wins a division title, the Braves will not be picked to finish anywhere but first until they finish somewhere other than first. They haven't done that since 1990.
 Some argue that they didn't finish first in the strike season of 1994, but no champions were declared that season. Furthermore, the Braves were close enough to the Expos when the strike began that it is reasonable to believe that they could have caught them. The Braves have made other comebacks during the streak, which is a record not only for Major League Baseball but also for all major professional sports.
 In some minds, the Braves' failure to reach or win more World Series in their record 12-year run detracts from their achievement. Nonsense. It is obviously more difficult to finish first every 162-game season than it is to spin the roulette wheel and win three short series in October.
 The remarkable element of the Braves' streak is that they lose and add players every season. Theirs is not the same juggernaut year after year. Smoltz, starting pitcher turned closer, is the only player who has been a member of all 12 division champions. Chipper Jones, third baseman turned left fielder, has started on the last nine division winners, and center fielder Andruw Jones on the last seven.
 Until they left as free agents last year and this, Tom Glavine pitched on 11 winners, Greg Maddux on 10.
 ''We've always been able to maintain our pitching,'' said Manager Bobby Cox, who never receives enough credit for the team's success. ''Until last year, we always kept our pitching. They had that competitive nature, always trying to outdo each other all the time. Now we've had a lot of change.''
 The Braves' starting pitching rotation is no longer made up of Glavine, Maddux, Smoltz in addition to Steve Avery or Charlie Leibrandt or Pete Smith or Kevin Millwood. The names this year are Russ Ortiz, Mike Hampton, Horacio Ramirez and John Thomson, with No. 5 to be determined in the next few weeks.
 Ortiz and Hampton came in trades before last season, Ramirez from the minor league system, Thomson as a free agent this year. They were Schuerholz's part of the process. He gets new players and turns them over to Cox. 
 It's a system that has worked since the Braves added first baseman Sid Bream and third baseman Terry Pendleton in 1991.
 ''When we acquire these players,'' Schuerholz said, ''there's a sense of comfort for them knowing that they will enter a clubhouse where there's a legacy of winning and professionalism and a huge expectation that continues and grows each year that in a large measure is created by Bobby Cox and his staff.''
 Joe Torre receives credit for the way he handles new players with the Yankees, but Cox was doing it long before Torre. ''He has more patience than most,'' Smoltz said of Cox. ''His belief in his players shows. You don't hear of too many players who have played for Bobby and haven't enjoyed it.''
 Cox's job will be more difficult this year because the Braves have not only completed a turnover of their pitching rotation, but they have also lost some of their most productive hitters. Gary Sheffield, Javy Lopez and Vinny Castilla departed with their collective 104 home runs (44 percent of the team total) and 317 runs batted in (36 percent).
 Johnny Estrada, whom the Braves acquired for Millwood, will replace Lopez at catcher; Mark DeRosa, a reserve the last three years, is the new third baseman in place of Castilla; and J. D. Drew, a talented but oft-injured hitter, will take Sheffield's spot in right field. Another newcomer is first baseman Adam LaRoche, son of the former pitcher Dave LaRoche.
 ''Pitching was always our strength,'' Smoltz said. ''Then last year offense was our strength. Now we're trying to blend a mixture.''
 Despite their lack of World Series success -- they won one title, in 1995 -- the Braves are thinking only of finishing first again. If they do, then they can think about the Series.
 ''We've enjoyed what we've done,'' Smoltz said. ''Obviously, there's a lot of talk about what we haven't done, but I wouldn't trade it if I had to win a world championship, then suffer for seven years before winning another one. If you want to do what the Florida Marlins have done, win a World Series and go the other way, O.K., but the Braves have never done it that way.''
 The Yankees have experienced Atlanta's way of doing things the last few years. They had their spurt of World Series success, then the last three seasons they finished first in their division but did not win the Series. Their failures have only prompted greater spending. The Braves haven't taken that approach this winter. ''We lost too much money over the last three or four years,'' Schuerholz said.
 The payroll will be $80 million, he said, the Braves' lowest in years and $100 million lower than the Yankees'.
 ''We're not using it as an excuse,'' Schuerholz said of the lower payroll. ''It's not, 'Woe is us.' It's more than the Marlins or the Angels spent on world championship teams. It's just a reality.'' 
 As for the Yankees' economic strategy, Schuerholz said, ''Nobody's ever handed out trophies for having the biggest payrolls or the most All-Stars on your team.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



2 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Both Sides Court Black Churches In the Battle Over Gay Marriage

BYLINE: By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 29 

 BODY:
Speaking recently to a group of black evangelical ministers and lay people here, Genevieve Wood of the conservative Family Research Council made an impassioned plea. Black Christians, she said, must speak out against advocates of gay marriage. 
 ''They are wrapping themselves in the flag of civil rights,'' said Ms. Wood, who is white, as visitors from across the country shook their heads in dismay. ''I can make arguments against that. But not nearly like you all can.''
 As Ms. Wood has been brokering alliances to oppose gay marriage, Donna Payne, a board member with the National Black Justice Coalition, a black gay and lesbian organization formed to increase acceptance of gay rights among African-Americans, has been appealing to liberal black clergy members. Reaching out to potential supporters, like the Rev. Abena McCray of the Unity Fellowship Church in Washington, Ms. Payne argued that recognizing gay marriage was a matter of equal rights. 
 ''We have to find ministers who will stand with us,'' Ms. Payne said, while going through her list of contacts. ''We have to at least try to bring some balance to the discussion.''
 As debate escalates around same-sex marriage, advocates on both sides are busily seeking support from the same source: black clergy members. Though their pitches are polar opposites, their motives are largely the same. Each seeks the perceived moral authority and the sheen of civil rights that black religious leaders could lend to each cause. 
 But the aggressive outreach is rife with complications. Neither white conservatives nor gay-rights advocates have had great success in sustaining broad alliances with black churches in the past.
 The fact that many black Christians are both politically liberal and socially conservative makes them frustratingly difficult to pigeonhole in a political environment in which, many pundits contend, voters are cleanly split along ideological lines. Many blacks opposed to gay marriage, for example, support equal benefits for gays as a matter of economic justice.
 And the prize often generically referred to as ''the black church'' is actually a diverse collection of historically black denominations and congregations that covers a wide range of theological and social beliefs.
 Advocates of gay marriage are appealing to those on the left end of that spectrum to show that the issue is really about civil rights. Those opposed are courting more conservative blacks as evidence that they are not bigots for suggesting the issue has nothing to do with civil rights. The resulting alliances are often used publicly to imply backing of ''the church'' as a whole. 
 Still, the battle for the soul of the black church is in full swing. President Bush's call last week for a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage has accelerated efforts.
 A day after the president's remarks a group of black Baptist ministers in Chicago held a news conference applauding his stance. It was the first of several such events in coming weeks planned by black conservative clergy members as a result of the meeting with Ms. Wood.
 ''If the K.K.K. opposes gay marriage, I would ride with them,'' said the Rev. Gregory Daniels, organizer of the Chicago event, taking a far more provocative stance than the vast majority of black -- or white -- clergy members speaking out on the issue. 
 The National Black Justice Coalition, which was planning public events with black religious and civic leaders for the spring as well as an advertising campaign in black media outlets to make a case for gay marriage, is scrambling to put together a more immediate response. 
 ''We thought we had a few months to organize,'' said Keith Boykin, president of the organization, which formed in December to respond to what its members said was a dangerously one-sided airing of black public opinion on the issue. ''Now we have to think in terms of days. We have to step it up.''
 Many important players on each side of the debate already have backing from black churches. The Alliance for Marriage, the multifaith, multiethnic coalition that oversaw the drafting of the text for the constitutional amendment now before Congress, includes among its founders bishops from the African Methodist Episcopal Church and the Church of God in Christ, two historically black denominations.
 The Coalition on Urban Renewal and Education, a Los Angeles-based conservative organization that works with black religious and community groups on social policy issues like school choice, arranged Ms. Wood's talk as well as meetings of clergy members with the Heritage Foundation and the White House.
 In Boston three black clergy organizations -- the Black Ministerial Alliance, the Boston Ten-Point Coalition and the Cambridge Black Pastors Conference -- issued a joint statement against gay marriage in early February, drawing a swift rebuke from pastors supporting the unions.
 At the heart of the conflict, for many, is not merely theology, but the mantle of civil rights.
 ''There has always been this undercurrent, from the women's movement through other movements, that the history of black people and their struggle was being opportunistically appropriated by an assortment of groups when it was convenient,'' said the Rev. Gene Rivers, president of the National Ten-Point Leadership Foundation, a church-based violence-prevention program. ''This movement is particularly offensive because it hits at the Book, the Bible, and the painful history of black people all at once.''
 Blacks fighting to establish same-sex marriage are pushing their allies to be more vocal.
 ''Yes, this is different from back-of-the bus and Jim Crow,'' said Ms. Payne, who is a lesbian and a churchgoer. ''But it's discrimination all the same. And when we make that case to black people, they understand.''
 The National Black Justice Coalition Web site lists prominent supporters including the Rev. Peter Gomes, chaplain at Harvard, the Rev. Al Sharpton, Democratic presidential candidate, and Coretta Scott King, widow of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
 Perhaps trying to appease both sides, the Rev. Jesse Jackson remarked briefly on the issue in a recent speech at Harvard Law School, saying that he supported ''equal protection under the law'' for gays. But he added that he viewed comparisons to the historical struggles of blacks as ''a stretch.''
 ''Gays were never called three-fifths human in the Constitution,'' he said, ''They did not require the Voting Rights Act to have the right to vote.'' 
 In other remarks in Boston, Mr. Jackson vowed that Republicans would not succeed in making the debate a wedge issue in the presidential race. Some black pastors enmeshed in the issue agree. 
 ''Ultimately black churches cannot be dictated to on this from the left, right or center,'' said Mr. Rivers, a Democrat who has advised President Bush on religion-based social services and who supports some benefits for same-sex couples. ''Most of the same people who believe fundamentally that marriage is between a man and a woman and who will stand up and support that with conservatives voted for Al Gore in 2000 and oppose tax cuts for the rich and cutting social services in 2004.''
 Still others said the most significant outcome of the political ruckus could be the start of meaningful discussion in black churches, many of which have been historically resistant to tackling any topics dealing with sexuality, including H.I.V./AIDS and births out of wedlock.
 ''Often this kind of dialogue in black churches lags behind social debate,'' said Dr. Robert M. Franklin, an ethics professor at Candler School of Theology at Emory University, in Atlanta. ''The value-added dimension of the political gamesmanship is that it will accelerate a much-needed conversation.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Revs. John Gray, Walter P. Turner and Gregory Daniels, left to right, are Baptist ministers who oppose gay marriage. ''If the K.K.K. opposes gay marriage,'' Mr. Daniels said, ''I would ride with them.'' (Photo by Aynsley Floyd for The New York Times)
 Donna Payne, left, an advocate of the acceptance of gay marriage among blacks, has been reaching out to potential supporters, like the Rev. Abena McCray, right, of the Unity Fellowship Church in Washington. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); MARRIAGE (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Marriages; Homosexuality; Blacks; Christians and Christianity; Marriages

ORGANIZATION: FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); NATIONAL BLACK JUSTICE COALITION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Lynette Clemetson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



3 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Disney Board Is Expected To Go Slowly On Eisner

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 29 

 BODY:
The least envied job in corporate America this week may be board member of the Walt Disney Company. The directors are bracing for a large group of disgruntled shareholders that is expected to make its presence felt at the company's annual meeting in Philadelphia on Wednesday.
 As many as a third of shareholder votes are expected to be withheld from Michael D. Eisner, the company's embattled chairman and chief executive who is running unopposed for re-election to the board. 
 But even with the prospect of such an unusually vociferous no-confidence vote, the board is not likely to react quickly and will be deliberate in its response, according to two people with knowledge of the board's discussions. Some shareholders simply want Disney to separate the jobs of chairman and chief executive, while others have said they want the board to force out Mr. Eisner, regardless of the job titles. 
 The prevalent thinking on the board right now, the two people said, is that the 61-year-old Mr. Eisner, whose contract runs through September 2006, is a creative executive who has something yet to give Disney. In the coming weeks and months, they said, the board will try to assess how much of the investor outcry is from the heart and how much is for publicity. 
 Certainly last week was noisy for Disney. On Thursday, state pension funds in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York said they would not support Mr. Eisner in the board election. A day earlier California's two largest pension funds announced their votes of no confidence. 
 The big mutual fund company T. Rowe Price also said it would not support Mr. Eisner. And the upstart proxy adviser, Glass, Lewis & Company, which counsels big investors on how to use their voting power, followed a similar move by the big proxy adviser Institutional Shareholder Services, by saying it would urge clients to withhold their votes from Mr. Eisner. 
 Some Disney executives and directors are said to regard last week's investor outbursts as media spin. This theory holds that some elected state officials who oversee pension plans are simply grabbing the spotlight to further their careers. By the same reckoning, the proxy advisers are trying up drum up new business as well as headlines. By this way of thinking, foes of Mr. Eisner, like the former board members Stanley P. Gold and Roy E. Disney, who is the nephew of Walt Disney and a big shareholder, are taking jabs mainly because the chief executive is vulnerable.
 ''The board understands this,'' a Disney spokeswoman, Zenia Mucha, said. 
 Besides, Ms. Mucha pointed out, Mr. Eisner has an array of supporters that few people hear about. A case in point are the New York City pension funds, which own about 7.6 million shares of Disney stock. New York City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. announced on Friday that they supported Mr. Eisner as chairman and chief executive. 
 ''These investors clearly recognize,'' Ms. Mucha said, ''that Disney is on track for earnings growth from continuing operations in excess of 30 percent this year and double-digit growth through 2007.''
 There are limits to the media-spin theory though. For one, executives at mutual fund companies rarely speak out, choosing to sell their stock rather than pick a fight with management. Mr. Thompson is also an elected official.
 And for many long-term investors, the company's track record is not easily dismissed with projections of double-digit growth. The stock price, indeed, is up 60 percent in the last 12 months, and many analysts agree that Disney is in the midst of a turnaround. 
 But critics note that over the last five years Disney's share price has underperformed all three major indexes, and they say that not all the weakness results from the economic and the lingering impact that the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, had on travel and tourism and attendance at Disney's theme parks. 
 ''Yes, there is a lot of evidence that they are having a cyclical turnaround,'' Brian Rogers, the chief investment officer for T. Rowe Price, said in an interview last week. T. Rowe Price is Disney's 14th-largest shareholder, owning 19 million shares. ''But there is a cumulative history, too, that has frustrated investors for a very long time, and they have to address this.''
 Such issues are precisely those that the Disney directors plan to confront in coming months, according to the two people privy to the board's thinking. Once Wednesday's votes are tallied, those people said, directors will examine which big shareholders did not vote for Mr. Eisner and try to determine their reasons for doing so.It will assess whether most dissident investors truly want Mr. Eisner to leave, or just have the company separate the chairman and chief executive positions -- a notion that board members have said they have considered doing in 2006 when Mr. Eisner's contract is up.
 According to a report written last week by Jill Krutick, an analyst at Citigroup Smith Barney, the board is likely to discount the opinion of investors who follow the advice of Institutional Shareholder Service, the influential proxy adviser, by not voting for Mr. Eisner. 
 ''While I.S.S. has singled out Eisner in this election, the I.S.S. recommendation can be construed as being more of a protest vote to encourage continued vigilance and improvement on governance matters,'' Ms. Krutick wrote. (I.S.S. has said that it is interested in separating the jobs of chief executive and chairman.) ''As a result, the board is likely to discount the I.S.S. 'swing' factor.'' 
 But while the board is not expected to split the jobs before 2006 at the earliest, Ms. Krutick predicted that if Mr. Eisner received a no-confidence vote ''materially higher'' than the one-third or so now being projected, the board could act sooner. 
 The director likely to have the most influence in the proceedings is George J. Mitchell, the former senator from Maine who is the presiding director and who has been a vocal supporter of Mr. Eisner in recent weeks. Mr. Mitchell was named in 2002 to the newly created position of presiding director as an interim step to separating the jobs of chairman and chief executive. In his role as presiding director, Mr. Mitchell oversees board activities and conducts executive meetings which Mr. Eisner does not attend. 
 There are at least several possible routes the board could take to split the jobs. One option would be having Mr. Eisner remain chief executive and the board's appointing a new chairman. Another would be to leave Mr. Eisner in the chairman's seat, while giving the chief executive job to Robert A. Iger, Disney's president, or another candidate. 
 Those routes, of course, assume that Mr. Eisner would stay at Disney, if the two jobs were split. Three executives who know Mr. Eisner said they thought he might not. 
 And there is the possibility that a corporate suitor could take over the company and install its own management. That is what the Comcast Corporation had hoped to do with its recent $54 billion unsolicited stock offer, which Disney's board rejected as too low. Many investors are waiting to see if Comcast, the cable company, comes back with a new bid, perhaps sweetening it with some cash.
 Then there is board's option of do nothing at all until autumn 2006, and maybe even renewing Mr. Eisner's contract at that point -- depending on the success of the projected turnaround. 
 ''Michael will take the company somewhere in five years,'' said Mario Gabelli, a Disney investor and chief executive of Gabelli Asset Management. ''The question is, who can take it someplace better? To the degree that this makes Michael reconfirm why he should have a job, this is terrific. Michael is not going to like hearing this, but it is good for the process.'' For now, Mr. Gabelli says he will practice watchful waiting.
 Whatever the outcome, said John C. Coffee Jr., a law professor at Columbia University who studies corporations: ''Institutional investors have said they want a successor and a plan. I would think the board wants to groom someone to succeed Michael Eisner even if Comcast goes away.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael D. Eisner is running unopposed for re-election to the Disney board. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); BOARD CHANGES (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (70%) Boards of Directors

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER SERVICES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co; Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

PERSON: Michael D Eisner; Laura M Holson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



4 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; E-Commerce Report

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Higher prices for domain names are one more hopeful sign that the economy may be turning around a bit.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
THE dot-com gold rush may be over, but territorial claims can still be valuable. Dot-com domain names are fetching respectable prices again, after more than three years of attracting scant interest. Names like Truck.com, Beef.com and others have recently sold for more than $100,000, according to Domain Name Journal, a trade publication, while Web sites like Men.com, which offers a dating service, and sites selling pornography like Whitehouse.com are crossing the million-dollar threshold.
 The rising prices are helping not only the sellers of domain names but also the industry that supports the use of domain names. Buyers, though paying higher prices, are optimistic that their investments will pay off in a brightening economy.
 The improvement in domain name prices actually began last fall, said Ben Turner, vice president for naming and directory services for Verisign, the company that manages the database of domain names ending in .com and .net and assigns numerical addresses to those names. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the number of active domain names handled by Verisign increased by more than 1.7 million, to 30.4 million. 
 For each domain name in its database, Verisign charges the registrars -- the companies that prospective owners pay to secure domain names -- a few dollars a year to manage each name. 
 ''The uptick seems to follow the economic turnaround that the U.S. and the rest of the world is starting to see,'' Mr. Turner said.
 Prices on the resale market for Web addresses are more than double what they were in the fourth quarter of 2003, Mr. Turner said, with the average resale price reaching $24,000. ''And names with good commercial value and significant traffic may not be selling for millions now,'' he said, but they are being sold for hundreds of thousands of dollars. ''A year ago, they would've sold for maybe $20,000. Hardly anything at all was selling.''
 On GreatDomains.com, a Verisign sales site, Smoking.com was listed last week for $500,000, Mr.com for $350,000 and Americans.com for $150,000.
 Owners of Web sites are also renewing their .com and .net domain names at record levels, Mr. Turner said, with 70 percent renewing in the fourth quarter of 2003, compared with a record low of 45 percent in the first quarter of 2003. ''More people are actually using their domains,'' Mr. Turner said. ''Used to be, less than half of the 60 million domains in the world had e-mail or a Web site associated with them. Now it's more than 60 percent.''
 An improving Internet economy is partly behind that trend. Online sales have increased steadily, with smaller businesses finding that advertising on Internet search engines like Google and Yahoo can be an inexpensive way of attracting customers. And smaller informational Web site publishers are generating more revenue by placing Google's small text ads on their site.
 Google is also helping a growing number of domain name owners earn money on their Web sites without publishing any information at all. Through its DomainPark service, users who, for example, type in ''airlineticket.com,'' a Web address that has only a ''placeholder'' page, will see text ads provided by Google. The site's owners, who must gain 750,000 monthly visits to maintain a spot in the program, earn a share of the ad revenue.
 ''DomainPark represents a significant source of additional revenue for speculators,'' said Benjamin Edelman, an Internet researcher based in Cambridge, Mass. ''I think this represents a large portion of why this market is coming back.'' 
 The biggest beneficiaries of the surge in domain name prices are sellers like Dan Parisi, owner of Whitehouse.com, a gateway page for the pornography site, WhitehouseSex.com. Mr. Parisi last month put the Whitehouse.com domain name up for sale, on the condition that the buyer not use the Web address for a pornography site, because he fears the new owners might try to feature news of the sexual indiscretions of politicians.
 So far, he said, the bidding for the name has reached $2 million.
 Mr. Parisi said the price was high because many users simply type in Whitehouse.com, without having to search for it on Google or Yahoo. That convenience translates into money. His other business, House.com, which connects prospective house shoppers with real estate agents, is a case in point. Mr. Parisi said he could count on 5,000 people a day typing the address directly, rather than going through a search engine.
 Based on what businesses are paying to be on Google's search results page when users type ''house'' into the search box, Mr. Parisi said, ''You'd have to pay $1 million a year for the same amount of traffic I get without advertising.''
 Those savings are a big factor in driving up the prices for the best domain names. 
 But expensive purchases are still nerve-wracking. David Wassmann, chief marketing officer for Car.com, said the company paid ''close to seven figures'' for its new domain name last year, after being stuck for seven years with Stoneage.com.
 The company, which publishes an informational Web site for car buyers and refers buyers to dealers, had long coveted Car.com, which was the Web address of Carter-Wallace, a pharmaceutical corporation whose stock symbol was CAR.
 ''It was very risky, because you just don't really know, right?'' Mr. Wassmann said. ''There's no way to tell how much of an impact it'll have until you own it.''
 But Mr. Wassmann said that when the new Web site started in December, it saw ''very strong'' visitation levels without any advertising. 
 The simplified company name helped in other ways, as well. ''Just with our salesmen going from dealer to dealer, it's made a huge difference,'' Mr. Wassmann said. ''Everything is easier.''
 The new name has already paid for itself from additional revenue earned from new visitors, Mr. Wassmann said. The privately held company, which had annual sales of $18 million as of mid-2003, is growing at a rate of 20 to 40 percent, he said. ''We really swallowed hard before we did it,'' he said of buying a new Web address. ''But it was the right thing to do.''
 Despite the growth in domain names, Verisign, however, still had a net loss of $250 million in 2003. It has been trying to generate revenue by offering new services to domain name owners and Internet users. But some of those efforts have been blocked by Icann, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, which was authorized by the Commerce Department to oversee the Internet's address system.
 Last fall, Icann forced Verisign to suspend a service called Site Finder, which redirected misspelled searches for Web sites to its own page, where it sold advertisements. Icann argued that the service disrupted ''a wide range of Internet users and applications,'' and violated Verisign's obligations as a neutral Web site registry. 
 Verisign filed a lawsuit last week against Icann in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, contending that Icann overstepped its authority in preventing the company from selling certain services. It also accused Icann of dragging its heels in permitting Verisign to operate a wait list service for expiring domain names, a market that is dominated by the smaller registrar companies. Icann said last week that it was disappointed that Verisign has again chosen confrontation over consensus.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dan Parisi said bidding for the domain name, Whitehouse.com, had reached $2 million. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMAIN NAMES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (77%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%) Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (80%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



5 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; MEDIA

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Got a Book in You? More Companies Than Ever Are Willing to Get It Out

BYLINE: By GAYLE FELDMAN

 BODY:
Since September, the nation's second-largest bookseller, Borders Group, has quietly been conducting an experiment in six Philadelphia-area stores, not as a bookseller, but as a publisher. 
 ''It's easy to publish your own book!'' the ''Borders Personal Publishing'' leaflets proclaim. Pay $4.99. Take home a kit. Send in your manuscript and $199. A month or so later, presto. Ten paperback copies of your novel, memoir or cookbook arrive. 
 Fork over $499, and you can get the upscale ''Professional Publication'' option. Your book gets an International Standard Book Number, publishing's equivalent of an ID number and is made available on Borders.com, and the Philadelphia store makes space on its shelves for five copies. 
 Borders is the latest traditional bookseller or publisher to branch into self-publishing using print-on-demand or P.O.D. technology. P.O.D., inheritor of the vanity press and survivor of the dot-com implosion, makes it feasible -- technologically and economically -- to produce one copy of a book. 
 Unlike e-books, which also appeared in the late 1990's, P.O.D. self-publishing has developed into a real business, attracting involvement from the likes of Random House, Barnes & Noble and now Borders. 
 ''We wanted to learn about the market,'' said Phil Ollila, Borders's vice president for book marketing, in explaining the chain's experiment. The company approached Xlibris, based in Philadelphia, one of the big three of P.O.D. self-publishing, together with 1stBooks and iUniverse, all formed in the late 1990's. Xlibris is 49 percent owned by Random House Ventures; 1stBooks, based in Bloomington, Ind., is privately held. Barnes & Noble owns 25 percent of iUniverse, based in Lincoln, Neb., and Warburg Pincus holds the other 75 percent. 
 These more established publishing businesses decided to invest in P.O.D. to diversify and expand their role. ''There was the farm team idea -- could we find authors?'' said Richard Sarnoff, the president of Random House Ventures. ''As niches get smaller, is it a model for the future?'' 
 Steve Riggio, the chief executive of Barnes & Noble, said, ''Self-publishing, previously viewed as a means of last resort, is increasingly seen as a first step.''
 Thoughts of the future aside, there is the matter of the current market. The three companies combined have produced more than 45,000 titles so far, at a cost to authors of from $459 to $1,900. (Some Borders packages are more limited, and thus cheaper.) 
 The real challenge is not to produce books, it is to achieve all the goals of publishing -- to get the books edited, distributed, noticed and, above all, bought. That is no easy feat: in the United States, 150,000-160,000 new titles were published last year, according to R.R. Bowker's Books in Print. On average, the P.O.D. titles sell just 150 to 175 copies, the companies say. Many authors are happy to pay for 50 or 100 copies of their magnum opus to give or sell to family, friends and business contacts. Others, though, confuse production with publication and end up disillusioned.
 To address that problem, all three companies emphasize marketing, promotion and publicity options, either bundled into the packages or sold separately as add-ons. 
 The majority of sales of self-published books occurs online. According to Susan Driscoll, iUniverse chief executive, 40 percent are sold directly to authors and the other 60 percent move through retail channels. John Feldcamp, the chief executive of Xlibris, like his colleagues, maintains that book sales ''are colossally important; they are more profitable than the services.'' But the add-ons generate cash and pull in authors.
 At iUniverse, the ''Star'' program is another important hook. If a title sells more than 500 copies its first year, the company may invest in marketing the book and invite the author to become a Star.
 But of iUniverse's 17,000 published titles, the authors of only 84 have been chosen as Stars, and only a half-dozen have made it to Barnes & Noble store shelves.
 An exceptional seller is a book like ''The Sweater Letter,'' a true-crime story from iUniverse, which has sold about 10,000 copies. Its author, Dave Distel, who worked for The Los Angeles Times for 23 years, said he ''didn't want to go through the song and dance'' of finding an agent and publisher. But he said he was ''unaware of the stigma'' associated with self-publishing and did not understand that booksellers expect discounts and also expect to return unsold copies. iUniverse worked with him, and Mr. Distel said he was satisfied.
 The fundamental difference between P.O.D. publishers and old-style vanity and subsidy presses is cost. Traditional vanity houses like the 55-year-old Vantage Press charge on average $8,000 to $10,000 -- and sometimes as much as $50,000 -- to produce copies that an author then owns. Subsidy publishers own the copies, but give the author a ''royalty,'' actually a rebate, for each one sold.
 Last fall, Patty Yoder, who lives on a Vermont sheep farm, paid Ivy House Publishing $27,900 to subsidize 2,000 color copies of ''The Alphabet of Sheep,'' a 64-page hardcover with her memories and her 26 handmade hooked rugs depicted inside. ''For years I kept running into a wall looking for an agent or publisher,'' Ms. Yoder said. 
 It is unlikely, however, that Ms. Yoder will recoup her investment in the book. For selling about 800 copies of the book herself, she received only about $7,000 in royalties. 
 Occasionally, a P.O.D. or other self-published title is discovered by a traditional house. Philip Simmons, dying of Lou Gehrig's disease, wanted to see his words in print quickly. He turned to Xlibris, which published several thousand copies of his memoir, ''Learning to Fall: The Blessings of an Imperfect Life,'' in 2000. The book was received to critical acclaim, and was republished by Bantam Books in 2002. Mr. Simmons died last July.
 Mr. Feldcamp said that conventional publishers had acquired about 20 Xlibris titles. An iUniverse author, Laurie Notaro, even made the paperback best-seller list with ''The Idiot Girls' Action-Adventure Club,'' and received a two-book contract from Random House. 
 But these are far removed from the experiences of most authors. The odds are stacked against such books reaching the shelves of the chains or the attention of news media. Mr. Riggio of Barnes & Noble cautions, ''Writers should have no delusions it's a fast way to get into bookstores.''
 Whatever method of self-publishing an author chooses, one factor is the same: the author is the only one driving the sales. ''The bottom line,'' as Ms. Yoder has learned, ''is promoting yourself. When push comes to shove, it's your money.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dave Distel, right, author of ''The Sweater Letter,'' promoted his book last week to Larry Olson at a Waldenbooks in San Diego. (Photo by Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)Chart: ''The Price of Publish-It-Yourself''Companies that help customers publish their own books.PROJ. '04 REVENUEiUniverse: $10.4 millionXlibris: $10 million plus1stBooks: N.A.COPIES SOLD TO DATEiUniverse: 2.2 millionXlibris: 1 million plus1stBooks: 2 million plusROYALTIES TO DATEiUniverse: $2.8 millionXlibris: $1.3 million1stBooks: $2.0 million plusNO. OF TITLES TO DATEiUniverse: 17,000Xlibris: 10,000 plus1stBooks: 20,000NO. OF AUTHORS TO DATEiUniverse: 11,000Xlibris: 8,0001stBooks: 17,000BASIC FEEiUniverse: $459Xlibris: $5001stBooks: $698ROYALTYiUniverse: 20% of net receiptsXlibris: 25% of list price (direct sale)
10% of list price (resellers)1stBooks: 10% to 50%, depending on page countADDITIONAL FEATURES AVAILABLEiUniverse: Editorial advice ($199)
 Personal publicist ($1,500)Xlibris: Printing in color1stBooks: Printing in color(Sources by The companies) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); BOOK PRINTING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Books and Literature; Book Trade; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet; Books and Literature

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (98%); BARNES & NOBLE INC (85%); RANDOM HOUSE INC (83%); WARBURG PINCUS LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Borders Group Inc; Random House; Barnes & Noble; Iuniverse.com; Xlibris (Co); FirstBooks (1stBooks)

TICKER: BKS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (98%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (98%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (53%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (53%)

PERSON: STEPHEN RIGGIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); NEBRASKA, USA (67%); INDIANA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



6 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Report Raises Questions About Fighting Online Piracy

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
The entertainment industry's pursuit of tough new laws to protect copyrighted materials from online piracy is bad for business and for the economy, according to a report being released today by the Committee for Economic Development, a Washington policy group that has its roots in the business world.
 Record companies and movie and television studios have fought copyright infringement on many fronts, hoping to find ways to prevent their products from being distributed free on the Internet. But critics warn that many of the new restrictions that the entertainment industry proposes -- like enforcing technological requirements for digital television programming that would prevent it from being transmitted online -- would upset the balance between the rights of the content creators and the rights of the public. 
 ''We are sympathetic to the problems confronting the content distribution industry,'' said the report, ''Promoting Innovation and Economic Growth: The Special Problem of Digital Intellectual Property.'' ''But these problems -- perfect copies of high-value digital works being transmitted instantly around the world at almost no cost -- require clear, concentrated thinking, rather than quick legislative or regulatory action.'' 
 Until recently, those who opposed strong copyright protections have been characterized by the entertainment industry as a leftist fringe with no respect for the value of intellectual property. 
 ''The ideas of copy-left, or of a more liberal regime of copyright, are receiving wider and wider support,'' said Debora L. Spar, a professor at Harvard Business School. ''It's no longer a wacky idea cloistered in the ivory tower; it's become a more mainstream idea that we need a different kind of copyright regime to support the wide range of activities in cyberspace.'' 
 Susan Crawford, a professor at the Cardozo Law School of Yeshiva University and an author of the report said that a growing number of business leaders are worried that the trend toward ''equating intellectual property with physical property'' might be hampering innovation.
 ''Bits are not the same as atoms,'' she argued, contending that the distinction is being blurred by Hollywood. ''We need to reframe the legal discussion to treat the differences of bits and atoms in a more thoughtful way.''
 The chief author of the report, Elliot Maxwell, a former adviser to the secretary of commerce on the digital economy during the Clinton administration, said that middle ground was hard to find in the many conflicts over intellectual property. The report, he said, was an attempt ''to find a way through this thicket.'' 
 The entry of the Committee for Economic Development into the copyright wars, some say, is surprising given its long history as a policy-setter in the world of economics and business. The 60-year-old organization left its intellectual mark on initiatives like the Marshall Plan and the Bretton Woods agreement, which created the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. In more recent years, the committee's policy papers have had a measure of influence on issues like campaign finance reform and the movement to set standards for public schools through testing. 
 Ms. Spar, however, warned against reading too much social change into the committee's new stance. It shows that the ideas are ''gaining legitimacy,'' she said. ''It does not mean that we're about to throw out the copyright system any time soon.'' 
 The report was written by an offshoot of the committee, and in an introduction to the report, the members of the parent group said that for largely technical reasons, the report is ''not an official C.E.D. policy statement.'' But they underscored the group's support, saying that it ''welcomes this report and recommends it to readers as an excellent analysis of the issue of balancing intellectual property rights and the incentives for long-term growth in the digital age.''
 One of the most prominent critics of attempts to increase control over copyrighted material applauded the new report. ''I think it's exciting,'' said the critic, Lawrence Lessig, a professor at Stanford Law School and founder of the school's Center for Internet and Society. ''The points they are making are obviously right,'' he said, ''but the only way people will get it is if more credible, mainstream organizations begin to utter it.'' 
 Jane C. Ginsburg, a law professor at Columbia University and a copyright expert, had a more mixed view of the report. The recommendations are ''very thoughtful and sensible,'' she said, noting that she agreed with the report's conclusion that government mandates are a bad idea. But she said in an e-mail message responding to questions about the report that it ''makes unsubstantiated, misleading, or misinformed statements about copyright law.'' In fact, she said, ''A little less preaching to the technologist 'choir' might have made this a better 'sell' to copyright owners and, perhaps, to lawmakers.''
 Jack Valenti, the president of the Motion Picture Association of America, said that he had not yet seen the report but was strongly critical of the view that his industry was trying to place unfair burdens on consumers. ''They say it will stifle innovation -- that's malarkey,'' he said. ''If all of this digital property is free, who is going to invest 50 to 60 million dollars to make a movie?'' he asked. 
 The report addresses that point by calling on the entertainment industries to come up with new ways of doing business that can accommodate and even profit from digital distribution. It cited the success of Apple Computer's iTunes Music Store as one online business that offered consumers an easy-to-use alternative to free music services. 
 ''In the music business, 'cheap and great' is likely to be at least as attractive to consumers as 'free and crummy,''' the report said.
 The report also endorsed the private use of so-called digital rights management systems to place some restrictions on copying, so long as they are not required by government and do not impose too great a burden on consumers. The group also recommended finding economic tools that could encourage copyright holders to allow their works to enter the public domain somewhat earlier than the law allows.
 The group called for a two-year moratorium on changes to copyright laws and regulations to allow for more public debate. ''Our first concern should be to 'do no harm,''' the report said. 
 Cary H. Sherman, the president of the Recording Industry Association of America, said that ''there isn't a lot here to disagree with'' from his industry's perspective, since the recording industry signed an agreement with technology companies a year ago stating that it would not push for government-mandated technology solutions for its copyright problems.
 ''I certainly agree that there shouldn't be any rush to judgment where new technologies and intellectual property issues are in conflict,'' he said, ''but one should also not assume that one could wait forever.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Elliot Maxwell, left, and Susan Crawford helped write a report on balancing intellectual property rights as the Internet age advances. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (92%); COPYRIGHT (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNET CRIME (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FILM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); LAWYERS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%) Music; Computers and the Internet; Copyrights; Television; Motion Pictures; Recordings (Audio); Recordings (Video); Law and Legislation; Music; Television; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Security and Warning Systems; Military Vehicles; Television

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (91%) Committee for Economic Development; Essential Viewing (Scottish Co)

PERSON: John Schwartz; Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



7 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; MEDIA

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Downstage From the Oscars, Awards for the Awards

BYLINE: By DAVID BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Now that the Academy Awards ceremony is over, the maker of the Oscar statuettes, R.S. Owens & Company, hopes to win an award or two itself this week.
 The Awards and Recognition Association, the trade group for makers of trophies, loving cups and other tokens of esteem, will hand out its annual industry prizes this Friday in Las Vegas. 
 There will be no red carpet, paparazzi, limousines or star-studded after-parties. And no Billy Crystal (although some of the Best Trophy contenders may contain crystal.) But to the few hundred attendees, the annual ceremony is ''the biggest event in the industry,'' Dave Bergeson, the association's executive director, said. ''People dress up for it. The winners go up and give an acceptance speech. It's a nice evening.'' 
 This year, R.S. Owens, a family-owned company in Chicago that makes other celebrated prizes besides the Oscar statuette -- including television's Emmy, the MTV Video Music Awards ''moon man'' and the Miss America trophy (yes, the winner gets much more than a crown) -- is a nominee in four categories. Those are Best New Technology, Best New Catalog, Most Creative New Product and Best New Product Engravable Material.
 The material on which Owens's hopes ride in the engravable category is a high-gloss plaque board. Winning the prize would complement the company's Best New Trophy Component award last year for its tricks with resin plaque casting. 
 The winners in nine major award categories, including Retailer of the Year and Best Trophy, receive gold-plated, four-sided Obelisk Awards; secondary category winners, about 20 in all, receive smaller, acrylic versions of the Obelisks. The Obelisk was designed by a committee of the group's members and made by R.S. Owens. 
 In the $3 billion-a-year awards and recognition business, Mr. Bergeson estimates that there are about 10,000 trophy retailers and 1,500 manufacturing and supplier companies in the United States and Canada. Most are small, family-operated shops with less than three employees and yearly average sales of $300,000. 
 R.S. Owens, with 175 employees, annual revenue of more than $10 million and a 82,000-square-foot factory on Chicago's northwest side, is one of the industry's big exceptions. The company's Obelisk-nominated product catalog has 208 pages filled with thousands of trophies, plaques and gifts, ranging in price from $20 to more than $7,000. 
 Scott Siegel, the president of R.S. Owens and the son of the late Owen Siegel, who founded the company in 1938, said his business benefited from the cachet that comes with having made the Oscar every year since 1983. ''But it only goes so far,'' he said. ''We could get a call from a new customer today and maybe, maybe not, that person called us because of our reputation. But if we don't answer the phone quickly, or do a good job taking care of that customer's needs, that customer will never call us back.'' 
 Although the awards ceremony is the highlight of the annual trade show, many of the 5,000 industry people at the convention will be comparing notes and looking for ideas on ways to reverse the downturn in a significant segment of the market: sales of trophies and plaques that companies hand out to their star employees. Many companies, industry executives say, have eliminated or slashed their employee recognition programs because of the sluggish economy.
 ''Companies don't reach their goals,'' Mr. Siegel said, ''salespeople don't reach their quotas, people don't get awards for performance, because they are not performing because the economy's so poor.'' 
 Mr. Bergeson, the group's executive director, argues that corporations should not put employee awards programs at the top of the chopping block. ''Employee recognition leads to a lot more employee retention,'' he insisted. In the industry's recent studies, he said, ''other than monetary rewards, recognition programs were the No.1 source of employee happiness.'' 
 ''Money's great,'' he said during an interview in his suburban Chicago office. ''Don't get me wrong, everybody loves money. But money's going to be gone in a week.'' 
 He picked up the golden Obelisk that he personally won in 1999 for his ''Outstanding Contributions on Behalf of the Association.'' ''This thing,'' he said, ''is going to be with me the rest of my life.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: To David Bergeson of the awards group, trophies, like diamonds, are forever. (Photo by Steve Kagan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (89%); RETAILERS (86%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MUSIC (67%); NEW PRODUCTS (65%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (61%) Awards, Decorations and Honors

COMPANY: R S OWENS & CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AWARDS & RECOGNITION ASSOCIATION (91%) Awards and Recognition Assn; Owens, R S, & Co

INDUSTRY: SIC3914 SILVERWARE, PLATED WARE, & STAINLESS STEEL WARE (91%); SIC3499 FABRICATED METAL PRODUCTS, NEC (91%)

PERSON: David Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



8 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Legislative Sponsors of a Higher Minimum Wage Fear It May Be Doomed in the Senate

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The main sponsors of a bill to raise New York State's minimum wage said the State Assembly would approve a higher minimum today, but they voiced fears that the effort would die in the Senate.
 The bill's backers argue that in New York, which has one of the highest costs of living of any state, it is too difficult to support a family on the state's $5.15-an-hour minimum wage, the same as that established by the federal government. 
 In an interview on Friday, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver predicted that his chamber, which is controlled by the Democrats, would easily pass a bill today setting New York's minimum wage at $7.10 an hour in January 2006.
 Were the State Senate to follow suit, New York would be the 13th state with a minimum wage higher than the federal level. 
 ''Making $5.15 an hour, you get to about $10,500 a year, and that's clearly inadequate for somebody working full time,'' Mr. Silver said. ''Even at $7.10, many workers would still be left in poverty.''
 The issue has prompted feverish lobbying in Albany. Supporters of a higher minimum include the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Working Families Party, while opponents include the New York Farm Bureau and the National Federation of Independent Business, an association of small businesses.
 ''This is very important,'' said Denis Hughes, president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''One of the traditional ideas of the labor movement is to set a wage floor.''
 Most lobbying is directed at the State Senate, particularly its Republican majority leader, Joseph Bruno, who would decide whether to put the bill to a vote after it passed the Assembly.
 ''Politically, it's very hard to vote on the floor against a minimum-wage hike,'' said Mark Alesse, state director of the National Federation of Independent Business. ''But a minimum-wage hike will have some negative effects for the economy and small businesses. When business owners get squeezed on payroll costs, they reduce payroll, so they fire people.''
 Mr. Alesse said a higher minimum wage would result in fewer jobs for low-wage workers. He insisted that the best way to help these workers was to increase the earned income tax credit.
 The executive director of the Working Families Party, Daniel Cantor, asserted that a higher minimum would not hurt the economy because it would give more money to low-income workers and they would quickly spend it, helping business. ''We believe it's both economically and morally right to do this because it puts more money in people's pockets,'' Mr. Cantor said.
 The Fiscal Policy Institute, a research group supported by organized labor, estimates that increasing the state minimum to $7.10 would directly raise the wages of 700,000 New Yorkers earning less than that and might push up the wages of an additional 500,000 workers earning $7.10 to $8 an hour.
 Susan John, a Rochester Democrat who as chairwoman of the Assembly Labor Committee is sponsoring the bill, predicted that a higher minimum would not drive up the state's jobless rate. She noted that Connecticut, with a $7.10 minimum wage, and Massachusetts, with a $6.75 minimum, had lower jobless rates than New York's. ''I worry the minimum wage is so low that sometimes it's a disincentive for people to work,'' she said.
 Ms. John voiced concern that Gov. George E. Pataki would pressure Mr. Bruno not to allow the Senate to vote on the bill out of fears that it would hurt businesses.
 Two years ago, the Assembly approved a $6.75 minimum wage, but the Senate never got to vote on it, largely because, lawmakers said, Mr. Pataki urged Mr. Bruno to bottle up the bill.
 A spokesman for the governor, Todd Alhart, said: ''We have always maintained that New York's minimum-wage provision should be consistent with the federal minimum wage. But the governor said he will look at any proposals that come forward.''
 Mr. Bruno's spokesman, John McArdle, indicated that the Senate leader was in no rush to take up the bill. ''Our preference is for the feds to act so that New York is not at a competitive disadvantage with neighboring states,'' he said. 
 Supporters of a higher state minimum say neither President Bush nor Congress, which Republicans control, appears eager to raise the federal minimum. 
 State Senator Guy Velella, a Bronx Republican who is the bill's chief sponsor in the Senate, where he heads the Labor Committee, said he thought the bill had a good chance of enactment, but he acknowledged that it might not come up for a vote in that chamber. He said the bill, which is overwhelmingly backed by Democrats, had seven Republican co-sponsors.
 Supporters say that many Republican lawmakers are feeling pressures to back the bill this year, when they are up for re-election, and that it has a better chance of gaining the governor's backing this year than in 2002, when Mr. Pataki was running for re-election. They also said the governor was reluctant to embrace the bill two years ago because he did not want to anger his business backers and contributors. 
 Mr. Velella said a compromise might ease the way to passage. ''My prediction,'' he said, ''is that if we ultimately get an agreement for both houses to vote on it and the governor to sign it, then it will probably be at a wage lower than $7.10.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LOBBYING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); INCOME TAX (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%); NEW YORK FARM BUREAU (54%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



9 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10; THE ARISTIDE RESIGNATION: A TURBULENT CAREER

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Aristide Raised Haiti's Hopes, Then Shattered Them

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Feb. 29 

 BODY:
Jean-Bertrand Aristide rose from his priesthood in Haiti's slums to its presidential palace by preaching democracy.
 But once in power, he dashed the hopes of many who had hailed him as a champion of the oppressed and the man who ended decades of dictatorship. In the end, the disillusioned say, he could not practice what he preached.
 His last three years as president were made more miserable by the increasingly tough opposition of the United States, culminating in the hard shove that toppled him from power on Sunday morning. The same nation that helped reinstate Mr. Aristide a decade ago had a airplane waiting to take him back into exile. 
 Many who once supported Mr. Aristide blame the man himself.
 ''As a politician, he reverted to that same authoritarianism he had condemned for so long,'' said Robert E. White, a former United States diplomat and now president of the Center for International Policy in Washington. He knew Mr. Aristide well, having worked with him in Washington almost daily for two years during the president's exile from power, before his return to Haiti, backed by American military might, in 1994. ''Aristide is an immensely talented man with no talent for compromise,'' Mr. White said. ''I don't believe Aristide had a democratic bone in his body.''
 Nevertheless, he said, Mr. Aristide ''was a constitutional president elected in a free and fair election.
 ''By putting the skids under Aristide,'' he added, ''the United States has undermined constitutional government in Haiti.''
 Mr. Aristide, 50, slight and scholarly with a mystical air, was born in the southern town of Port Salut on July 15, 1953. He studied theology, sociology and psychology in Canada, Britain, Italy and Israel. Ordained a Roman Catholic priest in 1982, he led the St. Jean Bosco church in La Saline, one of this city's worst slums.
 His sermons denouncing the dictatorship of Jean-Claude Duvalier, broadcast on a Catholic station, Radio Soleil, made him a hero to millions in Haiti and many foreigners who know and love this miserably poor country. The sermons continued in the years of military dictatorship that followed Mr. Duvalier's overthrow in 1986.
 In September 1988, his church was attacked while he was saying Mass. The assailants killed congregants and burned the church. Not long after, Mr. Aristide was expelled from his religious order for his political activities.
 He survived a series of attempts on his life and, cutting through the thicket of Haitian politics, won the nation's first democratic election, overwhelmingly, in 1990.
 ''He was a kind of anti-politician,'' said Brunson McKinley, who watched Mr. Aristide's rise to power while serving as American ambassador in Haiti from 1986 to 1990. Mr. Aristide first ''called for boycotting elections and railed against the political class'' -- and then joined the institutions he once despised.
 He was elected twice, and handed power peaceably to his successor in 1996, unique achievements in a land long governed by dictators and despots.
 He took office in February 1991, seen by many as a kind of saint from the slums. Then, barely eight months later, the Haitian military deposed him. When Mr. Aristide was restored to power in October 1994, to finish his five-year term with the full backing of American power, President Clinton hailed his return as ''a victory for freedom around the world.''
 But after he was re-elected and inaugurated for a second term in February 2001, Mr. Aristide lost much of his support at home and abroad. He fulfilled few of the enormous expectations he had raised -- in part because Haiti, one of the world's poorest nations, met a virtual cutoff of American and international aid during his second term because of accusations of political and economic corruption.
 His tortured relationship with the United States worsened after he and President Bush took office within weeks of each other three years ago. Many administration officials saw him as little more than a leftist leader of a country whose principal exports were refugees in rickety boats and transshipments of Colombian cocaine.
 The opposition of those officials now puts them in the awkward position of seeming to have pushed a freely elected president from power in America's backyard.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, then a parish priest, in September 1988. Soon afterward, he was expelled from his religious order for his political activities. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); BOYCOTTS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Politics and Government; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: Tim Weiner; Jean-Bertrand (Pres) Aristide

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (95%); CANADA (79%) Haiti; Haiti

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



10 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Oil Industry Reviving as Output Nears Prewar Levels

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Feb. 29 

 BODY:
Iraq's oil industry has undergone a remarkable turnaround and is now producing and exporting almost as much crude oil as it did before the war, according to officials with the American-led occupation and the Iraqi oil ministry.
 A month before the April 1 deadline set by Iraq and American officials for restoring the industry to prewar levels, the country is producing 2.3 million to 2.5 million barrels a day, compared with 2.8 million barrels a day before the war.
 With additional increases in production expected, oil exports this year could add $14 billion to Iraq's threadbare budget, compared with a little more than $5 billion last year, said a senior official with the Coalition Provisional Authority, the occupation government.
 The official, Robert McKee, 57, a retired Houston oil executive who has been the leading American figure in the drive to restore Iraq's oil fields, said, ''We're well ahead of the targets that we set in the aftermath of the war.'' 
 Iraq owns the third largest oil reserves in the world, after Saudi Arabia and Canada, and its economy is almost solely reliant on revenue from oil exports. That revenue could help finance Iraq's economic revival, Iraqi and occupation officials say, in turn strengthening the country's political stability as it moves to sovereignty during the next four months. The revival of the oil sector is a result of the $1 billion in repairs undertaken by the Americans and Iraqis as well as some dogged ingenuity by the Iraqis in keeping their badly damaged industry running.
 Major challenges still loom, the Iraqi and coalition officials said, especially as the Americans turn over control to the Iraqis ahead of the June 30 date for the transfer of sovereignty to a provisional Iraqi government. By then, the American military will hand protection of Iraq's pipelines and pumping stations to the oil ministry, which will have to manage a police force of 14,000 that is likely to be tested if political instability rises.
 After the transfer of power, Iraqi officials and their American advisers must fashion a modern industry from one starved of investment by Saddam Hussein's government and further diminished by the looting of billions of dollars from oil sales under United Nations sanctions after the Persian Gulf war in 1991.
 Political tensions that have been underscored lately by Iraq's tortured progress to sovereignty seem to have prompted coalition officials in recent days to highlight what they regard as the accomplishments of the occupation. 
 The American military commander, Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, said last week that attacks on coalition soldiers had been cut by half in the last three months, even as attacks on Iraqis had increased. 
 General Sanchez predicted that the 110,000 American troops that are to remain after the transfer of sovereignty will be able to counter efforts to destabilize the country. 
 The top American civil administrator of Iraq, L. Paul Bremer III, appeared on Iraqi television on Friday to announce that electricity generation, a major source of discontent for this country of 25 million, had been restored to prewar levels and was expected to rise rapidly as summer approaches.
 On Sunday, coalition officials turned the spotlight on the oil industry, where problems have often seemed emblematic of the wider deterioration of conditions in Iraq under the American occupation. In December, Iraqis fumed as they waited in lines for gasoline at stations across the country, a problem that American officials now say had more to do with a lack of electricity to pump oil through pipelines and operate gas stations than with a shortage of supplies. 
 American efforts to restore Iraqi oil have been led by the Army Corps of Engineers and its principal contractor, Halliburton.
 The Americans give much of the credit for the restoration of the oil industry to the Iraqis, saying that the removal of a corrupt elite who led the industry under Mr. Hussein left a work force of 35,000 well-trained and highly qualified Iraqis.
 But American financing has been crucial: the United States has so far spent $1 billion rebuilding the industry and another $1 billion on importing gasoline and other fuels. Another $1 billion is expected to be spent this year, Mr. McKee said, mainly on restoration and upgrading of oil fields and refurbishing of refineries.
 A year ago, as the American invasion neared, the Iraqi oil industry was at a virtual standstill. Exports had halted, and the government stopped pumping oil when the war began. Then, the ransacking of the oil fields and persistent sabotage by insurgents that followed frustrated early efforts to restore the industry. But by June, production was increasing, especially in the vast southern fields around Basra, which are the source of Iraq's exports. 
 Iraq now ships about 1.7 million to 1.8 million barrels a day, in contrast to the 2 million to 2.3 million barrels it exported before the war. 
 The opening of a second offshore oil terminal in the south could soon increase exports by a few hundred thousand barrels a day, Shamkhi al-Faraj, the head of the state oil exporting agency told Reuters in Dubai.
 In the north, exports have been stymied by attacks on the pipeline leading to an export terminal in Turkey. But the Northern Oil Company recently tested the pipeline and shipped a few million barrels of oil to Turkey. 
 Attacks on the pipeline dropped to 8 in January and February from 47 in the last three months of 2003, according to coalition officials -- a sign, they said, of the success of a new Iraqi oil police trained under an American contract.
 International oil executives once considered the Iraqi oil industry among the best in the world: well-equipped, generally above board in its business practices with highly competent professionals, many of them foreign-educated.
 All that began to change with Mr. Hussein's seizure of power in 1979. After Iraq went to war with Iran in 1980, investment in the oil sector gradually dried up. The conflicts that followed further damaged ports, pumping stations and tank farms, which were never fully refurbished. Under United Nations sanctions and the corruption of the old government, the industry was deprived of badly needed equipment.
 What American experts discovered on arriving here was an industry frozen in the 1960's. An American oil expert said that one measure of the inefficiencies that must be addressed is the performance of Iraqi refineries. They can only convert about 50 percent of the crude oil they process into marketable fuel and lubricants; refineries in the United States convert 75 percent to 80 percent. 
 American officials said it would take five years at a minimum for the industry to reach a reasonable level of efficiency and 10 to 15 years for Iraq to have a modern industry, at a cost that could reach $30 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (89%); ARMED FORCES (85%); DESERT STORM (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); POLICE FORCES (72%); POLITICS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TERRORISM (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Terrorism; Production; International Trade and World Market; Finances; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) Neela Banerjee; Robert McKee

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



11 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: A Hummer Alongside a Horse? The Rodeo Must Be in Houston

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 29 

 BODY:
The caravans of trail riders have streamed into the city with their covered wagons and horses, the carnival lights are aglow and the air is smoky with barbecue fires. It's rodeo time in Houston, when Texas comes to town. 
 That's Texas, as in cowboys, livestock and country music. Houston, of course, is Texas, too. But it is a cosmopolitan Texas, a boom (and bust) town of oil, finance and commerce where Hummers crowd pickups on jammed freeways being torn up for more freeways. 
 But that changes sharply once a year with the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo, a 73-year-old institution that calls itself the world's largest gathering of cattlemen and daredevil cowboy sportsmen.
 It is also the time Houston gets back to its Texan roots.
 In the long countdown to Tuesday's opening (the event runs through March 21), Friday was ''Go Texan Day,'' when Houstonians shed their pinstripes and pantsuits for jeans and cowboy hats, vests and boots -- ''cowboy drag,'' in the words of Demetrius Pearson, associate professor of health and human performance at the University of Houston and a rodeo expert.
 Stephen L. Klineberg, a professor of sociology at Rice University who has been directing an annual demographic study of the city since 1982, said the annual cowboy craze was a way for Houston to trumpet its originality. 
 During most of the 20th century and particularly after World War II, Dr. Klineberg said, Houston was the nation's ''quintessential boom town,'' the fabled ''golden buckle on the Sun Belt'' where the official bird was the construction crane. Houston prospered and gloried in that distinction, flaunting bumper stickers reading, ''Drive Fast, Freeze a Yankee.''
 Then in 1982 with the collapse of oil prices, the city spiraled into recession. ''We were no longer countercyclical,'' Dr. Klineberg said. ''We are no longer a whole 'nother thing.''
 He added: ''The rodeo became significant as a way of saying, 'Hey, we're still different.' '' 
 And so, Friday night nearly 4,800 trail riders with more than 200 wagons converged on Houston from 14 distant points, traveling historic trails of the pioneers. It is a tradition that began in 1952 when a rodeo official, stymied by bad weather that grounded his flight, vowed never to attend another Houston livestock show ''where I couldn't ride my horse home.'' 
 This year, after causing massive traffic tie-ups that Houstonians bore for the most part with good will, the trail riders encamped in the huge green expanse of Memorial Park. They parked their wagons, fed and watered their horses, and broke out the diesel generators to power their camper trailers.
 Then they built cooking fires, unpacked the beer and called home on cellphones to say they had arrived safely in Houston.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Trail riders, left, arriving in Houston on Friday for the Livestock Show and Rodeo. The show bills itself as the largest gathering of cattlemen and cowboy sportsmen in the world. Billy Ray Washington, below left, and Delfred Raglin rode 108 miles to get to the rodeo. Trenton Burkhalter, below, danced with his wife, Erin, at a camp party. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RODEOS (90%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (90%); HORSES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); RECESSION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Rodeos

ORGANIZATION: RICE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (55%)

PERSON: Ralph Blumenthal

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Houston (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



12 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft, Amid Dwindling Interest, Talks Up Computing as a Career

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Feb. 26 

 BODY:
Bill Gates went on a campaign tour last week, trying to reinvigorate his base, as they say in politics. 
 The number of students majoring in computer science is falling, even at the elite universities. So Mr. Gates went stumping at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Carnegie Mellon, Cornell, M.I.T. and Harvard, telling students that they could still make a good living in America, even as the nation's industry is sending some jobs, like software programming, abroad.
 ''Will this create more competition? It will,'' he told students at M.I.T. on Thursday. ''It means the U.S. will have to keep its edge in skills.'' 
 Later, noting fears of widespread job losses, he said in an interview, ''But people are way overreacting.''
 Mr. Gates urged the students to stay in the game, no matter where they worked -- for Microsoft, a rival, a start-up, a research lab.
 Matthew Notowidigdo, who came to M.I.T. five years ago and will receive his master's degree in computer science in May, has chosen not to. The head of the department said Mr. Notowidigdo, a 22-year-old native of Columbus, Ohio, was one of his brightest students, who would be welcomed at any computer science Ph.D. program in the country.
 But Mr. Notowidigdo has decided not to be a software engineer. Instead, he plans to head to Wall Street this spring to join the bond trading desk at Lehman Brothers, where he will work on research and analyzing fixed-income securities. While he may pursue a Ph.D. someday, he says it will be in economics rather than computer science.
 Enrollments are down at the best computer science schools, where the potential stars of technology's future are groomed. Professors say there is less enthusiasm for the discipline among students, and they worry it may be more than a lingering disenchantment after the dot-com bubble burst.
 In an effort to counter the trend, Mr. Gates, who personifies technological optimism and the potential payoff, sought to reassure students that their futures were no less bright in an era of outsourcing. The effect of computer technology, he told them, is just beginning and opportunity abounds. Computing, he added, is an ideal field for fine minds to make a difference in society. 
 ''We need your excitement,'' he told students at Harvard. ''Most of these jobs are very interesting and very social -- you work with lots of smart people. I'm excited about the future of computing, and I'm excited to see how each of you can contribute to it.''
 But Mr. Notowidigdo's expertise in software design and programming are also valuable tools on Wall Street, as sophisticated computer programs and models are increasingly used to sniff out profit-making opportunities in the financial markets. 
 And he said his summer job last year, doing programming work for a New York investment bank, also influenced his plans for the future. The bank's technology department was outsourcing some software work to India, and as part of the project, programmers from Wipro, a large India outsourcing firm, were brought to New York. Mr. Notowidigdo was impressed at the level of their skills.
 The outsourcing trend, Mr. Notowidigdo explained, ''factors into my thinking about what I want to pursue as a career.'' 
 His current path as a technologically adept investment banker, he decided, gives him ''a broader set of skills and is less risky than software engineering.''
 Mr. Notowidigdo arrived at M.I.T. in 1999, when technological exuberance was in the air and the allure of computing was at its peak. Now, even at elite schools like M.I.T., the number of students choosing to major in computer science is down. 
 John V. Guttag, head of the university's electrical engineering and computer science department, points to the ''worrisome'' downward trend. In the current academic year, 229 sophomores selected his department as their major, down from 282 in 2002 and 342 in 2001, a 33 percent decrease in just two years. 
 Nationally, there is a similar trend. The Computing Research Association's annual survey of more than 200 universities in the United States and Canada found that undergraduate enrollments in computer science and computer engineering programs were down 23 percent this year.
 M.I.T., like other universities, is seeking to counter the trend by emphasizing that computer science is increasingly a collaborative discipline, involving work with experts in other fields of business and science to solve all kinds of economic and social problems. ''What we have to emphasize is that a good computer science education is a great preparation for almost anything you want to do,'' Professor Guttag said. ''It's a terrific time to be a computer scientist.'' 
 That was the central theme of the Gates tour, which was planned and carried out with the precision of a presidential event. Political veterans were consulted. Aides did a ''walkthrough'' two weeks ago, checking locations, logistics and travel times. Mr. Gates met with dozens of professors at the five campuses and nearly 5,000 students attended his talks. 
 After it was over Thursday night, Mr. Gates, pacing in a basement conference room at Harvard, explained his purpose. ''Computer science is about to be able to accomplish things that people have been working on for decades,'' he said. ''Yet there doesn't seem to be the buzz, excitement and understanding of that so that the best young people are drawn into it.''
 With each lecture, his message was that because of ever-faster machines, improved software and the accumulated wisdom of decades of research, computer science was on the cusp of genuine breakthroughs in areas like speech recognition, artificial intelligence and machine-to-machine communication. These advances may take five years, 10 years or more, but they are not so far off now, he said. The trouble with the dot-com years, Mr. Gates told the students, was the delusion that technological revolutions happen overnight, without years of hard work by bright, talented people like them. 
 Yet already, Mr. Gates told them, the established disciplines -- ranging from biology and astronomy to industrial design and finance -- increasingly rely on computer analysis and modeling. And the new disciplines, like nanotechnology, are deeply computational.
 In that regard, he got no disagreement from Mr. Notowidigdo, the M.I.T. student who has decided to enter the field of financial services. He said he had no regrets about his choice of major. ''It opened so many doors for me,'' Mt. Notowidigdo said. ''And understanding computational technology is going to be essential to almost any field in the future.''
 Mr. Gates said electronic commerce had not yet even begun, and that huge gains in communication, convenience and productivity are on the near horizon. He acknowledged that there were challenges to be overcome in areas like privacy and computer security, skipping lightly over the fact that security flaws have bedeviled many Microsoft products. But even the headaches, he said, are merely intriguing problems for smart computer people to conquer, and profit from.
 Mr. Gates scoffed at the notion, advanced by some, that the computer industry was a mature business of waning opportunity. In one question-and-answer session, a student asked if there could ever be another technology company as successful as Microsoft.
 ''If you invent a breakthrough in artificial intelligence, so machines can learn,'' Mr. Gates responded, ''that is worth 10 Microsofts.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Gates of Microsoft at M.I.T. last Thursday, and a student who questioned him. (Photographs by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Matthew Notowidigdo, 22, intends to go into banking. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCIENCE (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); GIFTED EDUCATION (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (73%); STUDENT DISCIPLINE (73%); BONDS (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (68%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%) Computers and the Internet; Labor; Colleges and Universities; Graduate Schools and Students; Computers and the Internet; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%) Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Microsoft Corp

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (93%) Matthew Notowidigdo; Bill (William H) Gates; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



13 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: DEBATE

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: Edwards Attacks Kerry Sharply In Debate as Crucial Votes Near

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Two days before the biggest round of Democratic primaries and caucuses this year, Senator John Edwards repeatedly challenged the party's front-runner, Senator John Kerry, on a variety of fronts yesterday in the most contentious Democratic debate in months.
 Mr. Edwards, scrambling to keep his candidacy alive, tried to draw a stark contrast between his record and Mr. Kerry's. He described Mr. Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, as a Washington insider who had supported bad trade agreements, made too many promises and was unlikely to bring about the change Americans wanted.
 Mr. Kerry, who had grown accustomed to far gentler treatment from Mr. Edwards in recent weeks, fired back that his record on trade was essentially the same as Mr. Edwards's, and suggested that the North Carolina Democrat was simply looking for a political issue. Mr. Kerry acidly dismissed the charge that he was a Washington insider by saying that the ''last time I looked,'' Mr. Edwards was also a member of the Senate. 
 The exchange came in a fast-moving, freewheeling and at times angry debate two days before Tuesday's primaries and caucuses in New York and nine other states.
 Mr. Kerry has won 18 of the 20 contests so far, has a three-to-one advantage in delegates and according to polls is poised to dominate Tuesday's voting. After yesterday's debate, which was sponsored by The New York Times and CBS News, Mr. Edwards held rallies in Brooklyn and Albany, hoping for an upset, while Mr. Kerry sought to shore up his support among upstate voters. [Page A15.]
 Mr. Edwards mounted his attack after the debate's moderator, Dan Rather of CBS, suggested that his real goal was winning a place on the ticket as vice president, rather than the Democratic nomination.
 ''Oh, no, no,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''Far from it.'' 
 He immediately assailed Mr. Kerry as being too willing to support trade agreements that could cost American jobs and accused him of engaging in the tired old politics of the past by promising both new spending programs and a steep reduction in the deficit.
 ''Senator Kerry has consistently said that he can pay for all the things that he's proposing and substantially reduce the deficit, I think I've heard him say cut it in half, in his first term,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''My point is very simple about all this. This is the same old Washington talk that people have been listening to for decades. They want something different.''
 The two men did agree on many issues, including the charge that President Bush had mishandled the crisis in Haiti. And, in a series of cautious answers that reflected the power of the issue, both men also reiterated their support for giving same-sex couples the right to form civil unions but repeated their opposition to gay marriage.
 Still, the overall tone of this debate was a shift from weeks of relative civility in the Democratic field. And the other two candidates in the race, the Rev. Al Sharpton and Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, pushed themselves into the fray, resisting any effort by the panel of questioners to focus the debate on Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards.
 ''He's won one primary,'' Mr. Sharpton said at one point, pointing to Mr. Edwards. Angrily addressing the news panel, Mr. Sharpton added, ''What you're trying to do is trying to decide for the voters how we go forward. The voters need to hear this morning from four candidates -- or say the media is now going to select the candidates.''
 Trade was the source of the sharpest policy clashes, as it has been for much of a primary season dominated by job losses and the downside of a global economy. Mr. Edwards scoffed at Mr. Kerry's proposal for a 120-day review of all trade agreements and aimed his remarks at Ohio, one of the states voting Tuesday. 
 ''If you live in Ohio, and you lose your job during that 120 days, think about that,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''What you're going to say to a family that's lost their job because of bad trade agreements is, 'Don't worry, we've got a Washington committee that's studying this for you.' ''
 Mr. Kerry grew increasingly irritated. ''I have consistently fought to put in the trade agreements enforceable measures that allow us to stand up and fight for workers,'' he said. 
 Moments later, Mr. Kerry maintained, ''there is no difference between what John Edwards would do today and what I would do today,'' and suggested that Mr. Edwards had come only lately to his passionate position on trade. ''He's talked more in the last five weeks about trade than he has in the entire five years'' he has served in the Senate, Mr. Kerry said.
 Even as the questioners tried to move on, Mr. Edwards insisted on responding. ''The suggestion -- the suggestion -- that I came late to this? I want to say to Senator Kerry, I have lived with this my entire life. I saw what happened when the mill in my hometown closed that my own father worked at.''
 Paradoxically, the sharp exchange comes at a time when many Democrats -- and some polls -- are suggesting that a Kerry-Edwards ticket would have the best chance against the Republicans this fall.
 The one-hour debate touched on several foreign policy questions. Both Mr. Edwards and Mr. Kerry said the Bush administration had neglected the situation in Haiti for too long and was now paying the price, with the country falling into chaos.
 ''He's late, as usual,'' said Mr. Kerry. ''I never would have allowed it to get out of control the way it did.''
 The Democrats also faulted Mr. Bush for his handling of North Korea, and suggested that Congress and the Bush administration could be doing more to protect America from another terrorist attack.
 Mr. Sharpton scoffed at the idea that the absence of an attack since Sept. 11, 2001, was a reason to vote for Mr. Bush. ''Are you now suggesting that Bush's answer to Americans is, 'Be glad you're alive?' '' Mr. Sharpton said. 
 Mr. Kucinich said, ''We are not safer, because we attacked a country that did not attack us and have created a resurgence of Al Qaeda as a result.''
 Much of the debate revolved around the question of values, which is expected to figure prominently in the general election, when Republicans have already indicated they plan to portray Mr. Kerry, if he is the nominee, as a classic Massachusetts liberal.
 Mr. Kerry doggedly resisted the liberal label in the debate. ''I mean, look, labels are so silly in American politics,'' he said.
 Mr. Edwards said he agreed, arguing that what Americans really cared about was, ''What are your values, where you come from, what do you believe in, and who are you fighting for?''
 Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards also treaded carefully around the issue of gay marriage, just days after Mr. Bush endorsed a constitutional amendment aimed at banning same-sex marriage. Asked what was wrong with gay marriage, Mr. Kerry replied, ''I believe that marriage is between a man and a woman.''
 When pressed, Mr. Kerry said what was important was that same-sex couples were ensured ''spousal rights,'' on issues like inheritance. When pressed further about how he would deal with this issue in his own circle, Mr. Kerry said he had been to the wedding of a gay couple. ''I just happen to have a different opinion about what you call it and what the status is,'' he said.
 On West 57th Street across from the CBS theater where the debate was held, about a hundred supporters of gay marriage waved signs and shouted, ''Marriage equality now!''
 The candidates were also asked about their religious beliefs. Asked if they agreed with Mr. Bush that God was on America's side, Mr. Kerry replied, ''I believe in God, but I don't believe, the way President Bush does, in invoking it all the time in that way. I think it is -- we pray that God is on our side, and we pray hard.''
 At times, the candidates seemed to spar with the debate questioners as much as they did with each other. The panel of questioners included Mr. Rather, Elisabeth Bumiller of The New York Times and Andrew Kirtzman, political reporter for WCBS.
 In arguing that the moderators were not asking him enough questions, Mr. Sharpton accused them, and the news media in general, of trying to pare the field to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards.
 ''And I think that your attempt to do this is blatant, and I'm going to call you out on it, because I'm not going to sit here and be window dressing,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article and a news analysis article yesterday about the Democratic presidential debate in New York omitted a sponsor of the event. Besides The New York Times and CBS News, WCBS-TV was a sponsor.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Democratic presidential candidates debated yesterday in New York City. John Kerry and John Edwards shook hands beforehand. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Senator John Kerry, left, watched as the Rev. Al Sharpton, Senator John Edwards and Representative Dennis J. Kucinich responded to a question yesterday in the debate in New York. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Debating; International Trade and World Market; Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Homosexuality; Marriages; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Cbs Corp; New York Times

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (94%); JOHN KERRY (94%); AL SHARPTON (79%); DENNIS KUCINICH (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Robin Toner; John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry; Al (Rev) Sharpton; Dennis J (Rep) Kucinich; Dan Rather; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (92%) Haiti

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



14 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Aristide Leaves Haiti, And U.S. Sends Troops
Jean-Bertrand Aristide resigned as president of Haiti under pressure from the United States and the threat of an invasion of the capital by armed insurgents, as the United States sent marines to help keep order. A1

A series of fast-breaking events over the weekend led to Mr. Aristide's departure aboard an American jet, a State Department official said. A1

The United Nations Security Council, meeting in emergency session, passed a resolution approving the immediate dispatch of a multinational force to Haiti and the creation of a United Nations military force to replace it this spring. A10

Setback for Schroder Party
The Social Democratic Party of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany was decisively defeated in local elections in Hamburg, a result that was seen as a sign of voter dissatisfaction with his government and its program of economic reform. A6

Russia Arrests Qatar Athletes
Russia has detained two members of the Qatar wrestling team, escalating a diplomatic confrontation that began with the arrest of two Russian secret agents in the murder of an exiled Chechen leader. A6

Israeli Court Intervenes
Israel's highest court ordered a weeklong halt to construction of one segment of the West Bank barrier, while the police reported catching three Palestinian youths on their way to carry out a suicidal shooting attack. Israeli forces raiding the West Bank city of Nablus killed two Palestinian gunmen in separate clashes. A6

Interim Constitution for Iraq
Iraqi leaders agreed early Monday morning to an interim constitution that would serve as the framework for the government through next year, a spokesman for the Iraqi Governing Council said. A1

Iraq's oil industry has undergone a remarkable turnaround and is now producing and exporting almost as much crude oil as it did before the war. Major challenges still loom for the oil industry, Iraqi and occupying officials said, especially as the Americans turn over control. A8

Elections Set for India
India will hold national elections beginning April 20. Public opinion polls so far predict that the coalition led by the Bharatiya Janata Party of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee will return to power. A9

NATIONAL A11-19

Edwards Challenges Kerry Repeatedly in Debate
Two days before the biggest round of Democratic primaries and caucuses this year, Senator John Edwards repeatedly challenged the party's front-runner, Senator John Kerry, on a variety of fronts in the most contentious Democratic debate in months. A1

Last-Minute Voter Pursuit
Looking for an upset in Tuesday's New York primary, Senator John Edwards rallied for votes in Brooklyn and in Albany while Senator John Kerry sought to shore up his support among Jewish voters and upstate residents. A15

Kerry Will Fight for Israel
Senator John Kerry told dozens of Jewish leaders in New York that he would continue the Bush administration policy of vetoing any United Nations Security Council resolutions seen as one-sided against Israel, participants in a closed 90-minute meeting said. A17

Tanker Explosion Kills Three
Rescue helicopters and ships scoured the frigid Atlantic waters off Virginia for 18 sailors whose ethanol-laden tanker ship exploded, burned and sank. But Coast Guard officials said the chances of finding any of the crewmen alive were slim. At least three crew members aboard the Norwegian-owned vessel died in the accident. But in a helicopter rescue a Coast Guard team was able to pluck six survivors out of a life raft that was bobbing in oil-laced seas. A11

Lobbying Black Clergy
As debate escalates around same-sex marriage, advocates on each side are busily seeking support from the same source: black clergy members. Though their pitches are directly opposed, their motives are largely the same. Each seeks the perceived moral authority and the sheen of civil rights that black religious leaders could lend to their cause. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

American Sizes Are Bigger
For the first time since World War II, a national survey has sized up the average American body, not just by weight and height or even the standard chest-waist-hip routine, but in more than 240 measurements tip to toe. The results confirm what other statistics have shown: that Americans have grown. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Gay Marriages Divide A Hudson Valley Village
Until the past few days, New Paltz, N.Y., was a friendly Hudson Valley hamlet where diverse points of view on social issues were tolerated, if not encouraged. But since the local mayor thrust it into the national debate over same-sex marriage by conducting gay wedding ceremonies, New Paltz has become a village divided. B4

Muslims Rallied to Vote
Islamic groups have formed a national task force intended to rally Muslims to register to vote before the 2004 presidential election. Muslim leaders say their community has become more politically aware after wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and after a backlash many say they have felt. B1

Fire Kills Queens Teenager
A 14-year-old Queens girl was killed after a suspicious fire broke out on the ground floor of the Bay Terrace duplex. Fire investigators said the blaze was not an accident, but they would not describe how it began or whether they had any suspects. B1

FASHION B8

SPORTSMONDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES B7

ARTS E1-10

Oscars Awarded
''The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King'' won 11 Oscars, including best picture, at the 76th annual Academy Awards. Sean Penn won best actor for his performance in ''Mystic River.'' Charlize Theron was named best actress for portraying serial killer Aileen Wuornos in ''Monster.'' E1

'Passion' Tops Box Office
''The Passion of the Christ,'' Mel Gibson's new film about the Crucifixion, continued its strong box-office run over the weekend. It took in an estimated $76.2 million over Friday, Saturday and Sunday, for a total of $117.5 million since it opened. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Disney Braces for Conflict
As the Walt Disney Company's annual meeting draws near, board members are bracing for disgruntled shareholders to make their presence felt. As many as one-third of shareholder votes are expected to be withheld from Michael D. Eisner, the company's chairman and chief executive, who is running unopposed for re-election to the board. C1

Adelphia Insider to Testify
Opening statements are to begin in Federal District Court in Manhattan in the fraud trial of John J. Rigas, the former head of Adelphia Communications, and his two sons. One of the most pivotal insiders to testify will probably be James R. Brown, the company's former vice president for finance, who has pleaded guilty to securities fraud. C1

A Company Without Martha
Regardless of the outcome of Martha Stewart's criminal trial Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, a company founded on tastefulness, must proceed without the presence of the tastemaker. C1

Bill Gates Recruiting
The number of students majoring in computer science is falling. So Bill Gates of Microsoft went to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Carnegie Mellon, Cornell, M.I.T. and Harvard to tell students they could still make a good living in America, even as the nation's industry sends some jobs, like programming, abroad. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Shattered democracy in Haiti; a bad shift on land mines; press here to control the universe; keeping seeds safe.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Autos D9
Metro Diary B2
Bridge B8
TV Listings B9
Crossword B6
Weather D10


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); CAUCUSES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MURDER (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); WRESTLING (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (89%); JOHN KERRY (89%); GERHARD SCHRODER (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



15 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE SOUTH

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Edwards Hopes Georgia Repeats History

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Feb. 29 

 BODY:
The last time a Georgia primary really mattered, an underdog Southern Democrat was desperately seeking traction against a Massachusetts man. It was 1992, and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas unexpectedly beat his Democratic rivals by a huge margin here, transforming him overnight into the top contender and leading the way to a sweeping victory over former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts in the Southern primaries that followed. 
 On Tuesday, supporters of Senator John Edwards of North Carolina are hoping Georgia can do the same for a campaign that seems stuck in second place. They are banking that Mr. Edwards's Southern pedigree will resonate among voters here much the way it did for Mr. Clinton and set the stage for an against-the-odds comeback against Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. 
 ''Georgia is a must-win state for Edwards,'' said Merle Black, a professor of political science at Emory University in Atlanta. ''It won't do him any good to finish second.''
 Early last week, statewide polls put Mr. Edwards seven or eight percentage points behind Mr. Kerry. But a poll done at the end of the week for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution and WSB-TV of Atlanta had Mr. Edwards almost 20 percentage points behind, the paper said Sunday.
 The only primary Mr. Edwards has won was in South Carolina, his birthplace. And the prospect of Georgia leading to a turnaround for Mr. Edwards has been further diminished by changes in the primary schedule. In 1992, Georgia's primary was one of three that day, falling a week before Super Tuesday; this year it is lumped with nine other states, many far richer in delegates. 
 The Edwards campaign is hoping that a victory in Georgia and a strong showing in other states on Tuesday will keep him a viable candidate going into March 9, when voters go to the polls in four Southern states with 465 delegates: Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas.
 With so many Super Tuesday states to cover, Mr. Edwards has had little time to barnstorm Georgia, although he has campaigned here more than Mr. Kerry has.
 The candidates have been running an abundance of television commercials here in recent days with Mr. Edwards spending slightly more than his opponent, and both men have scheduled appearances in the state for Monday or Tuesday.
 The most prominent Democrats have mostly split between the two, with former Gov. Roy Barnes supporting Mr. Edwards and Representative John Lewis and former Senator Max Cleland backing Mr. Kerry.
 In many ways, Georgia is a far different place than it was in 1992. Once a stronghold of the solid Democratic South, the state, like the rest of the region, has become firmly Republican in recent years. Democrats here are still licking their wounds from the rout of 2002, when they lost a Senate seat and the governorship.
 To make matters worse, the state's highest-ranking Democrat, Senator Zell Miller, endorsed President Bush. Retiring in nine months, Mr. Miller has frustrated his former allies by refusing to anoint a Democratic successor, adding to the likelihood of another Republican victory. 
 Still, Georgia is by no means resolutely Republican. Democrats tend to match Republicans in voting strength, and some experts see independent voters as particularly susceptible to a Democratic pitch this year. Though the state has gained some jobs, nearly all have been around Atlanta, a Democratic redoubt, and most of the new jobs are low-wage.
 Rural areas and cities like Macon, Columbus and Albany continue to shed manufacturing jobs, notably in tobacco and textiles. That makes Georgia second only to New York in the number of mass layoffs -- those affecting 50 employees or more -- according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 Over all, the state has lost 112,000 jobs since Mr. Bush took office, and blue-collar workers are increasingly anxious about their futures.
 ''Even though the Republicans seem to have the momentum, there's a great amount of insecurity,'' said Billy Linville, a political consultant in Atlanta who works for Democratic candidates. ''As far as the Democrats are concerned, Georgia is still a very competitive state.''
 Mr. Barnes, the former governor, says economic uncertainty will work in favor of Mr. Edwards, who frequently condemns outsourcing and the North American Free Trade Agreement in his stump speeches and wears his mill-town upbringing on his sleeve. 
 ''Rural whites tend to lean Republican on social issues but if they've lost a job, or if they're afraid of losing one, economics will trump everything else,'' Mr. Barnes said.
 Mr. Edwards was clearly trying to appeal to that potential base last week when he visited several hard-hit cities and offered an indictment of companies that export jobs overseas. Whenever possible, he alluded to his Southern, working-class roots. Speaking in a converted train depot in Albany, he seemed to grow wistful.
 ''I've lived with this all my life,'' he said. His latest television spot also plays up his small-town-boy appeal, featuring Mr. Edwards strolling through his birthplace, Seneca, S.C. ''The folks I grew up with, they weren't famous, and they sure weren't rich,'' Mr. Edwards says in the advertisement. ''They just worked hard every day to give their kids a better life.''
 As Mr. Edwards sounds his populist theme and evokes a homespun persona, Mr. Kerry has been heightening his military past with the help of Mr. Cleland and Gen. Wesley K. Clark. Mr. Cleland and two of Mr. Kerry's Vietnam buddies, calling themselves the Band of Brothers Tour, have been traveling the state in the last few days extolling Mr. Kerry's wartime credentials. 
 ''We know a man who has the background and experience, not only in war but in peace, to bring this country to a better place,'' Mr. Cleland said, speaking at a veterans' memorial in Atlanta on Friday. ''We have the real deal in John Kerry.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of John Edwards listened to him speak on Saturday at Tabernacle Baptist Church in Augusta, Ga. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%) Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries; Public Opinion

COMPANY: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (68%); GEORGIA TELEVISION CO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN LEWIS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry; Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); AUGUSTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Georgia; Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



16 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13; White House Letter

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: On Gay Marriage, Bush May Have Said All He's Going To

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When President Bush announced his support last week for a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage, his body language in the Roosevelt Room did not seem to match his words. Mr. Bush may have forcefully defended the union of a man and a woman as ''the most fundamental institution of civilization,'' but even some White House officials said he appeared uncomfortable.
 When Mr. Bush finished his five-minute statement -- with reporters arranged before him in White House-assigned seats, waiting for the news conference that appeared to be coming -- he abruptly turned on his heel and strode from the room, ignoring all questions. 
 ''Is he coming back?'' a television reporter called out.
 He was not.
 Mr. Bush was acting under enormous pressure from his evangelical Christian supporters, who had intensified their demands in recent months that the president speak out in defense of traditional marriage. His more moderate supporters, on the other hand, worried that he might look like a gay basher.
 Mr. Bush's friends say that is hardly the case and that the president is quite comfortable with gays. Laura Bush, when asked in a recent interview by The New York Times if she and her husband had gay friends, easily replied: ''Sure, of course. Everyone does.''
 Although the president's behavior might reinforce the view among his critics that he was acting cynically when he endorsed the amendment, the fact is that he has a record of tolerance in personal situations.
 Last spring, during a class of 1968 Yale reunion that he held at the White House, Mr. Bush had a particularly striking encounter with Petra Leilani Akwai, who in 2002 had a sex-change operation. At Yale, Ms. Akwai was known as Peter Clarence Akwai.
 ''I was in the receiving line, I was dressed in an evening dress, and I was being escorted by a male friend from the Yale class of 1986,'' Ms. Akwai said in a telephone interview this weekend from Germany, where she lives. ''And I said, 'Hello, George.' And in order for him not to be confused, in case he hadn't been briefed, because our class was all male, I said, 'I guess the last time we spoke, I was still living as a man.' ''
 ''And he said,'' Ms. Akwai recounted, '' 'But now you're you.' ''
 Ms. Akwai said the president seemed completely comfortable. ''He leaned forward and gave me a little sort of smile,'' she said. ''I thought it was a sincere thing, and it was very charming.''
 Mr. Bush has appointed some openly gay federal officials to jobs at the White House. These include Scott Evertz, who was the president's first adviser on AIDS. When Mr. Evertz upset conservatives by advocating the use of condoms, he was moved to the Department of Health and Human Services.
 But Mr. Evertz was replaced by another openly gay official, Dr. Joe O'Neill, who is now a deputy director in the State Department's program to fight AIDS worldwide.
 White House officials say that Mr. Bush will not speak out about the amendment banning gay marriage in his political trips around the country and will leave his five-minute Roosevelt Room announcement as his major show on the issue.
 That was obvious at a political fund-raiser in Louisville, Ky., last week, when Mr. Bush never once used the words ''gay marriage'' in his stump speech. His only allusion to it was a line about judges who have cleared the way for gay marriages in some states.
 ''We will not stand for judges who undermine democracy by legislating from the bench, or try to remake the culture of America by court order,'' Mr. Bush said, to applause from the $2,000-a-plate crowd.
 While Mr. Bush's closest advisers say that he genuinely feels that marriage is between a man and a woman only -- the same position that Senators John Kerry and John Edwards take -- some of his advisers also say the president would have been better off keeping his opinions to himself. 
 Last summer, Charles Francis, a Bush family friend and a co-chairman of the Republican Unity Coalition, an influential gay-straight political alliance, bemoaned what might happen if gay marriage were to become an issue in the 2004 campaign.
 ''Marriage panic is not good for the political process or the country,'' Mr. Francis said then.
 By November, when the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court made its ruling allowing gay marriage in the state, the issue was well on its way. ''We're hopeful that the campaign will steer clear of this amendment,'' Mr. Francis said in an interview at the time. ''It's an issue of tone. It's the issue of writing discrimination into the founding document. Also it's so distracting from the real priorities of the campaign, which are his leadership, the war in Iraq and the economy.''
 Last week, Mr. Francis did not return phone calls about Mr. Bush's announcement in the Roosevelt Room.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush left without answering questions last week after he announced his backing of an amendment banning gay marriage. (Photo by Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); RELIGION (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (63%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%) Marriages; Constitutional Amendments; Homosexuality; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Evangelism; Finances; Marriages

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (59%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (52%) Louisville (Ky)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



17 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan Leader, Battling a Recall, Mocks Bush

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Feb. 29 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez railed against the Bush administration on Sunday in a speech before tens of thousands of supporters, accusing it of meddling in Venezuelan affairs and supporting antigovernment forces trying to remove him from office.
 Mr. Chavez, whose language has become increasingly hostile in the face of American support for a recall referendum, warned that if the Bush administration carried out what he called American aggressions, ''the people of the United States should know that they will not get another drop of oil from Venezuela.'' The American energy market is heavily reliant on Venezuela, one of the top four providers of petroleum to the United States. 
 Accusing the Bush administration of destabilizing Venezuela and coveting the country's huge oil reserves, Mr. Chavez mocked President Bush, saying he stole the 2000 elections and ''is not even the legitimate president of the United States.'' 
 Mr. Chavez, a leftist populist, has ruled Venezuela since his election in 1998. He was re-elected in 2000 to a term that ends in 2006, and he has vowed to remain in power longer than Mr. Bush.
 ''Let's bet on who will last longer, George W. Bush, you in the White House or me in Miraflores Palace,'' he said. 
 His made his speech as the National Electoral Council prepared to announce Monday that as many as 1.4 million signatures gathered by government foes to force a binding referendum on the president were flawed. That news infuriated a broad opposition movement, which says it has collected enough valid signatures to pave the way for a vote. 
 The electoral council's announcement was expected to lead to more turbulence in this country of 25 million, which since 2001 has been shaken by a failed coup, four national strikes and violent protests. Since Friday, two people have been killed and several dozen have been wounded as antigovernment protesters have battled in the streets of Caracas with National Guard troops.
 Opposition leaders accuse Mr. Chavez, who promises to improve the lives of the poor, of governing like a dictator and mismanaging Venezuela, Latin America's fourth-largest economy. He calls his adversaries wealthy elites who are angry that they no longer run the country.
 Venezuela had been relatively peaceful in recent months, as the opposition abandoned its strategy of weakening the government through strikes and opted for collecting enough signatures to call a referendum, allowed under the Constitution.
 But the latest developments do not bode well for the opposition.
 The electoral council announcement was expected to show that of 3.4 million signatures collected, 400,000 were invalidated and an additional one million would have to undergo new checks for fraud, said a person knowledgeable of the council's work. That would mean that instead of having 2.4 million legitimate signatures needed to force a referendum, the opposition has only two million and would have to reconfirm hundreds of thousands, a technically challenging process.
 The electoral council has said one million signatures would go through a five-day ''repair period,'' starting on March 18, giving citizens the chance to confirm that they had signed.
 But a Western diplomat who has been monitoring the signature gathering said the council's decision was a deliberate delaying tactic that was not based on rules governing how the recall process would take place. Of the council's five members, two have criticized the decision, saying it is not based on electoral regulations.
 ''This is not in accordance with the rules,'' Ezequiel Zamora, who is considered partial to the opposition, said in a television interview on Sunday evening. ''It presumes bad faith on the part of voters.''
 Though the opposition movement had not, as of early Sunday evening, said whether it will go along, the announcement made the possibility of a recall referendum increasingly unlikely.
 The Organization of American States, which helped broker talks here between Mr. Chavez and the opposition, has urged the electoral council to respect the will of the people and not resort to ''excessive technicalities.''
 Francisco Carrasquero, one of three members of the electoral council who voted to challenge the signatures, said Tuesday that tens of thousands of petition forms appeared to have been filled out in similar handwriting. The opposition says volunteers at booths where the signatures were taken had, in some cases, filled out forms but that the individual signatures were legitimate.
 Mr. Chavez, in his speech, scorned his opponents and dared them to go to the repair period and ''show Venezuela and the world if it is true that they collected those signatures.'' He said if the signatures were legitimate, then ''fine, we will go to the recall referendum -- but not in any other way.''
 The president, though, still accused his foes of being ''violent groups, supported by Washington.''
 The government here has been incensed since it was recently disclosed that Sumate, an opposition group that helped plan the recall effort, received $53,000 from the United States government. The money came from the National Endowment for Democracy, which had funneled hundreds of thousands of dollars to groups opposed to Mr. Chavez.
 Juan Fernandez, an opposition leader, said Sunday evening that Sumate had nothing to hide.
 ''In Sumate's case, there was complete transparency,'' he said. ''It was quite legitimate for them to receive funds from the N.E.D., which gives money to hundreds of civil organizations around the world in order to promote democracy.'' 
 In downtown Caracas, Mr. Chavez's supporters shouted pro-Chavez slogans and carried anti-American signs.
 ''We're defending our president from the opposition, and our country from the United States,'' said Ana Garcia, who had traveled from neighboring Aragua state. ''And we're protecting the reforms our president has made. We're with his revolution, and we will defend him to the death.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters opposed to President Chavez set fire to barricades yesterday in Caracas and yelled at troops and pro-government supporters. Since Friday, two people have been killed and dozens wounded in street battles. (Photo by Associated Press)
 President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela yesterday accused the Bush administration of meddling in Venezuela's affairs and supporting antigovernment forces trying to oust him. He spoke to a large crowd in Caracas. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); COUPS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%); RIOTS (67%) Politics and Government; Recall (Elections); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States International Relations; Elections; Referendums ; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Juan Forero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Venezuela; Caracas (Venezuela) ; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004



18 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1; Curtain Rises on New Act in Berlin's Opera Wars

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Three Fiefs Must Learn How to Share, and to Live on Less

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
From the start of the prolonged offstage drama that has been convulsing Berlin's opera world since the late 1990's, two inescapable and contradictory realities seemed likely to determine the outcome. Financially, the city government could no longer afford to maintain three opera houses in the style to which they had become accustomed. Politically, it could not afford to close any of them.
 The solution that has now been imposed by the Berlin Senate, amid squeals of dismay and sighs of resignation, was predictable. The three opera houses -- the Deutsche Staatsoper Unter den Linden, the Deutsche Oper and the Komische Oper -- will remain open, but they must cut costs, including 220 jobs, and learn to live on smaller subsidies. They are also to share workshops, and will shortly merge their three ballet companies into a single Staatsballett Berlin.
 ''We are starting a new chapter,'' said Georg Vierthaler, the Staatsoper's managing director, in an interview last month. ''In time we will see if it is a comedy, drama or tragedy.'' 
 With the German economy in a slump, traditionally generous cultural subsidies are being trimmed across the country. Berlin's situation, though, is special. During the cold war, governments on both sides of the divided city promoted culture for propaganda purposes. After 1990, a united Berlin inherited three opera houses, eight orchestras and 17 theaters, but it lost many of its financial privileges.
 As its budget deficit mounted through the 1990's, the city's coddled opera houses became targets for austerity measures. The opera managements protested, with the Staatsoper's music director, Daniel Barenboim, threatening to resign. But dependent on city government subsidies for $142 million of their collective $196 million annual budget, the houses could not elude political pressure.
 And as they came under the spotlight, something else was revealed: they were in need of a good shake-up. For 14 years the three houses -- the Deutsche Oper in former West Berlin and the Staatsoper and Komische Oper in former East Berlin -- have been operating as independent fiefs, mirroring the old divide. Now they will be expected to respond more faithfully to the interests of a united Berlin.
 Though it is once again the federal capital, Berlin is a relatively poor city lacking an industrial or financial base. One of its principal assets is culture, not only its fine museums and the legendary Berlin Philharmonic but also its opera houses. Yet unlike, say, the Vienna State Opera, Berlin opera houses have never reached out to tourists, even though attendance by Berliners is falling. Now Berlin's politicians want more for their money.
 The key is the creation of the new Berlin Opera Foundation. Headed by a general manager to be named by the city, the foundation will have control over the three opera houses, the new Staatsballett and the service company that will manage costume and decor workshops. The foundation's component parts are all represented on a 10-member executive board, and have collective responsibility for opera and ballet in Berlin.
 ''In the past when they were in debt they'd come to the Senate and hold out their hand and ask for help,'' said Barbara Kisseler, the city's under secretary for culture, who is overseeing the reform. ''Now this has to be sorted out by the foundation.''
 This was also a condition laid down by the federal government when it offered to help resolve the crisis. Reluctant to be seen directly subsidizing opera, it took charge of four city museums, freeing up $21 million in city funds, which are to be used by the foundation. Without that money the annual opera and ballet subsidy would have fallen to $100 million from $142 million; now it will level off at $121 million in 2009.
 But that still leaves the foundation with a projected shortfall of $21 million, which will be only partly covered by the savings -- about $12 million -- achieved through sharing workshops and cutting, among artists, 18 musicians from the opera orchestras, 7 singers from the choruses and 28 dancers from the ballet companies. With the subsidy being reduced in stages, the foundation will be in the red again in 2007.
 This has persuaded Mr. Barenboim and Peter Mussbach, the Staatsoper's general manager and artistic director, to oppose the changes. ''From 2007 the foundation will be in trouble,'' Mr. Mussbach said. ''The politicians are ceding their responsibilities to those who are the victims. They know full well that three opera houses cannot survive. But if one of them closes, it will be the fault of the foundation, not the politicians. This is a political trick.''
 Mr. Barenboim and Mr. Mussbach also complain that the Staatsoper and its renowned orchestra, the Staatskapelle, are victims of success. While the Deutsche Oper and the Komische Oper have been operating with a deficit, the Staatsoper has prospered. A recent sold-out performance of Wagner's ''Meistersinger von Nurnberg,'' conducted by Simone Young, with the German baritone Falk Struckmann as Hans Sachs, was evidence of its musical excellence.
 The Staatsoper still receives a hefty subsidy, but it averages 80 percent attendance -- compared with 68 percent at the Deutsche Oper and 50 percent at the Komische Oper -- and has been more creative in its programming. There was an early-music festival last month, and at an Easter Festival in April Mr. Barenboim is to conduct new productions of Schoenberg's ''Moses und Aron,'' Tchaikovsky's ''Queen of Spades'' and three concerts by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
 Mr. Barenboim's greatest fear is that the foundation will not respect the artistic independence of each house. ''If the foundation has a general manager who is responsible for all three houses,'' he said in a recent interview with the German weekly Die Zeit, ''it's not very credible that each house will keep its own identity. In the end, we won't have three different houses but only one house with three stages.''
 Yet a common criticism has been that the houses lack clear identities. There was, for instance, frequent programming duplication, including one famous night when all three presented Mozart's ''Marriage of Figaro.'' It is therefore likely that the foundation will encourage the houses to develop different profiles. ''At the moment the repertories of the Deutsche Oper and the Staatsoper are interchangeable,'' Ms. Kisseler said.
 If the Staatsoper feels victimized, the mood at the other two houses is more upbeat, if only because they started the year without a deficit. Still, each faces major problems. The Komische Oper's general manager and artistic director, Andreas Homoki, has lost some of the company's traditional East Berlin audience by modernizing productions.
 The Deutsche Oper has been focusing on importing top singers -- the American tenor Robert Gambill recently sang the lead in Wagner's ''Tannhauser'' -- but it has been without a general manager since Udo Zimmermann was forced out last year by the music director, Christian Thielemann. Ms. Kisseler said the house needed a general manager and a music director who work together.
 As for the foundation's projected 2007 deficit, Ms. Kisseler said there was ample room for increasing efficiency in nonartistic areas and raising box office and other revenues. ''We need centralized artistic marketing to fill the houses,'' she said. ''At present there is not even central ticketing. Until now each house was interested only in itself. In future we have to serve the interests of all opera in Berlin.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an article about Berlin's three opera houses misspelled the name of a work heard recently at the Deutsche Staatsoper. It is ''Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg,'' not Miestersinger.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A scene from ''Die Miestersinger von Nurnberg'' at the Deutsche Staatsoper, which has flourished while Berlin's other two companies have run deficits. (Photo by Monika Rittershaus)(pg. E1)
 A scene from Wagner's ''Tannhauser'' at the Deutsche Oper, which has focused on importing singers. The American tenor Robert Gambill sang the lead role. (Photo by Bernd Uhlig)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); MUSIC (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BALLET (68%); DANCE COMPANIES (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); COLD WAR (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%) Opera; Finances; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Staatsoper Unter Den Linden (Berlin); Deutsche Oper Berlin; Komische Oper (Berlin)

PERSON: Alan Riding

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (96%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) GERMANY (96%); AUSTRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Berlin (Germany)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



19 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Index Hints at a Pickup in Manufacturing Jobs

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Manufacturers in the United States could finally be close to adding jobs after 42 consecutive months of layoffs, a survey released yesterday suggested, but they also face escalating pricing pressures that could squeeze profits.
 The Institute for Supply Management's closely watched manufacturing index slipped to 61.4 in February from 63.6 in January, a 20-year high. But because a reading over 50 indicates growth, the index still suggested activity was strong. The real surprise was in the employment component, which advanced to 56.3 in February from 52.9 in January. 
 That was its best reading since December 1987 and held out hope for some improvement in manufacturing jobs in the February payrolls report. The sector has shed almost three million jobs since mid-2000, making it one of the most contentious issues in this year's presidential elections.
 Analysts were taken aback by a leap in the survey's prices-paid component, which reached an eight-year peak of 81.5. That was largely because of a jump in the cost of commodities, much in demand by China's material-hungry manufacturers. Those higher costs could be a sign of future inflation, although analysts emphasize that global competition is so fierce that companies have been unable to pass higher prices on to consumers.
 In other economic news, consumer spending rose 0.4 percent in January after a 0.5 percent gain in December, the Commerce Department said. After adjusting for inflation, the rise in spending was just 0.1 percent, reflecting a 3.5 percent drop in purchases of big-ticket manufactured goods, particularly autos. However, upward revisions to real spending in the prior two months lifted the starting point for this quarter, so consumption is actually accelerating.
 In addition, personal income edged up 0.2 percent in January, a bit slower than the 0.3 percent rise in December and below forecasts of a 0.5 percent gain. But after-tax income shot up 0.8 percent in January as tax refunds pulled down overall tax payments by $49.4 billion.
 Rounding out the data, construction spending across the economy dipped by 0.3 percent in January, the Commerce Department reported. The decline was unexpected, but the blow was softened by upward revisions to December's results. The value of residential building held at $501 billion, having risen over 11 percent in the previous year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (86%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%) United States Economy; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Consumer Behavior; Income; Building (Construction) ; United States Economy

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%) Institute for Supply Management; Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



20 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Libya's Vast Pipe Dream Taps Into Desert's Ice Age Water

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: SURT, Libya 

 BODY:
In one of the largest construction projects in the world, engineers are trying to ''mine'' ice age rainfall, now locked in the sandstone beneath the Sahara, and convey it to Libyan cities and farms along a vast waterworks.
 The project is almost invisible, except when something goes wrong. 
 Bashir O. Saleh, a Libyan engineer trained at the University of Texas, has devoted his professional life to the project, the $27 billion Great Manmade River. In an interview, he described what had happened repeatedly on the first 500-mile segment of the pipeline system that taps a series of ''fossil water'' aquifers beneath the Libyan desert.
 Mammoth sections of pipe buried six feet under the desert floor burst out of the sand dunes like submarines breaking the surface of the ocean. Each time it happens, Mr. Saleh said, ''it is a catastrophe.'' 
 Two decades after the Libyan leader Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi mounted this multibillion-dollar public works project as ''the eighth wonder of the world'' that would ''create a new society,'' nothing is settled about the best long-term solution for Libya's widespread water deficit.
 But the option that Colonel Qaddafi chose -- the extensive pipeline and pumping system that bores into the earth to draw down nonrenewable reserves of fossil water -- is now about half completed on a landscape twice the size of Texas and has been delivering water for more than a decade, with occasional interruptions for repairs. 
 Construction is still under way on connecting branches, as it is here near Surt, where a great gash in the desert exposes freshly laid pipeline that looks big enough to support a subway train.
 The first pipeline blowout occurred in August 1999, and disaster struck repeatedly over the next several years, until engineers figured out how to reduce corrosion that was weakening the pipe and causing it to buckle under the water's enormous force.
 Each failure started as a rumble, then an eruption, followed by a geyser shooting 100 feet into the air -- a subterranean beast, as one of Mr. Saleh's assistant engineers put it, being flung out of the earth with the pressure of a dam burst.
 ''Some of these huge pieces of pipe were hurled 50 meters by the force of the water,'' he said. ''It's a mess.''
 With each failure, repair crews were dispatched like counterattacking armies of bulldozers and 450-ton cranes. Their work -- digging out the damaged sections and hoisting new ones -- was hampered by the flooding. For weeks, they struggled to nestle, nudge and wedge new 75-ton pipe sections back into the ground to recreate the seamless conveyance before the manmade river could be turned on again at its source. 
 The source is the array of well fields that puncture the desert at places called Tazerbo and Sarir, sending pipes down nearly 1,500 feet (the height of the Empire State Building, with antenna) to the soft water-bearing rock -- part of the Nubian sandstone aquifer system, which stretches into Egypt, Sudan and Chad and may be the world's largest such aquifer of fossil water.
 The overall system was designed by subsidiaries of Halliburton and Price Brothers Company in the United States. The basic design work was completed before sanctions were imposed on Libya, in the mid-1980's. The companies have remained as consulting engineers through overseas subsidiaries. 
 Though many of Libya's airports, aircraft, hospitals, roads and schools have decayed and crumbled during Colonel Qaddafi's 35 years in power, the waterworks, like the oil sector, have commanded high priority. If Libya had not addressed the water crisis that became increasingly urgent after its 1969 revolution, the country would be scarcely habitable, experts say. The orange and olive groves would have died off from saltwater intrusion, and the 5.6 million Libyans, 85 percent of them on the Mediterranean coast, would have been forced to migrate, or return to a subsistence economy based on rainfall collection.
 ''Without it, really we would have no future,'' Mr. Saleh said. ''We would have to leave the country.''
 Over the years, the vast Libyan waterworks has been derided as Colonel Qaddafi's ''pipe dream.'' Western intelligence agencies have floated stories, since discredited, that the tunnels, roughly 13 feet in diameter, were conduits for military hardware, including tanks and illicit chemical weapons stockpiles.
 The discovery of large reserves of fossil water near the surface in Libya came with the discovery of oil, when Occidental Petroleum and other American firms started punching holes in the desert in the late 1950's.
 Much of it fell as rain 25,000 to 75,000 years ago, said Prof. Mike Edmunds, director of the Oxford University Center for Water Research. Professor Edmunds has also spent much of his career studying the geology of the Libyan desert and surveying its subterranean water resources. The rest fell 4,500 to 10,000 years ago, he said, when Libya was a broad and lush savanna, where elephants, giraffes, leopards and great herds roamed while early humans harvested crops on plains washed by heavy rains.
 Rainfall collected in huge formations of sandstone, where the soft rock acted like a sponge and impervious rock below it slowed or prevented migration out of the region. 
 ''This is a legacy from the past, and one has to use it with great care if you want to safeguard it for future generations,'' Professor Edmunds said. Fossil water must be used responsibly, he added, ''so that nobody can look back and say, 'What a waste!' '' 
 The same might be said of Libya's oil wealth, which has largely been squandered on Soviet-era weapons and once secret programs to produce chemical and nuclear weapons. Colonel Qaddafi abandoned these programs in December. 
 If fossil water were oil, Libya would be Saudi Arabia. Though finite, its fossil water resources are almost unimaginable in scale: the equivalent of a lake larger than Germany and hundreds of yards deep.
 The Kufra Basin in southeast Libya has an estimated groundwater storage capacity of nearly 5,000 cubic miles just in the Libyan sector.
 Mr. Saleh says that even if Libya pumps fossil water for 100 years, there will still be ample reserves for future generations. Professor Edmunds agrees, but emphasizes the need for conservation.
 ''In the case of Libya, a large country with a small population and vast reserves of fresh water beneath the desert, the scale of depletion compared with the scale of the resource is still relatively small,'' he said. 
 Still, few experts are certain that in another 30 years it will make sense to draw heavily on water reserves in the face of declining costs for desalting and the scaling back of ambitious plans to use fossil water to support wheat farming in the desert, a folly that Saudi Arabia tried and will have to abandon as its water reserves are exhausted over the next two decades.
 For now, 11 years after the first water started flowing, Libya is committed to mining its water resources, whose volume, when all the pipelines are completed, will be about 200 million cubic feet of water per day, roughly the flow of the Thames River in England, Mr. Saleh says.
 In a world so desperately short of water in so many drought-prone regions, Libya's water bounty is a national treasure that seems destined to be spent. But all the questions, the experts agree, relate to how fast and with what plan for frugality. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pipes 13 feet in diameter are being used for the $27 billion Great Manmade River project in the Libyan desert. Blowouts have been frequent along the first segment. (Photographs by Patrick E. Tyler)Map of Libya highlighting Surt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DESERTS (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



21 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; BUSINESS TRAVEL

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

In-Flight Phone Calls Are Cheaper for Some
 Using that airplane seatback phone suddenly became a lot cheaper yesterday on about 2,000 commercial airliners equipped with Verizon Airfone handsets. Verizon Airfone and Verizon Wireless slashed the prices for using Airfones to 10 cents a minute from $3.99 a minute for Verizon wireless customers who join a $10-a-month subscription plan for the in-flight phones. 
 The $3.99-a-minute standard charge for Verizon Airfone is in addition to a $3.99 basic charge for each call. Verizon Airfone said the new plan was adopted to increase use of the in-seat phones, which have not generated enough revenue. Verizon Wireless who do not sign up for the subscription plan will pay 69 cents a minute.
 ''Quite honestly, Airfone has not had the kind of usage we think we ought to have,'' said William E. Pallone, the president of Verizon Airfone, a subsidiary of Verizon Communications. Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications and Vodafone.
 Verizon Airfone has more than 100,000 handsets fixed to seatbacks on United Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Continental Airlines, US Airways and some regional carriers, Mr. Pallone said. 
 ''We will clearly make money'' at the new rates for Verizon Wireless customers, he said. ''It's a volume game. Our pricing has been set according to the value received in the past.'' 
 ''We'd been able to keep the price up, but quite honestly the proliferation of cellphones ate into our usage considerably'' in recent years, even though cellphones cannot be used in flight. 
 Passengers with Verizon Wireless service will be able to both make and receive calls in flight at the new rates; an incoming call will be announced with a flashing light.
 Mr. Pallone agreed that some passengers may not like losing the airplane cabin as a refuge from chattering phone users.
 ''I think it's an issue,'' he conceded. ''There is a certain amount of courtesy you have to extend to your fellow passengers. I think we'll find a nice medium.''
 Kent Craver, the manager of onboard product marketing for Continental, said that market research showed that business travelers were eager for the new service and that no problems were anticipated. 
 "I don't think it will get to the point where people will be annoyed," he said.

Alaska Airlines Revamps Fares
 The barely standing Saturday-night-stay requirement that was intended to prevent business travelers from buying cheap leisure fares took another hit as Alaska Airlines, the ninth-largest domestic carrier, announced a major fare restructuring.
 The new simplified structure both lowers fares and reduces the number of fares in each market, from as many as 15 to an average of 6. It eliminates requirements of staying for a Friday or a Saturday night in favor of a one-night minimum stay or none at all.
 ''The traveling public is fed up with convoluted restrictions and we're doing something about it,'' said Gregg Saretsky, executive vice president for planning.

America West Airlines Continues Expansion
 America West Airlines continues to expand its routes. The low-cost carrier -- which is based in Tempe, Ariz., and was the first airline to shake up, reduce and simplify business fares two years ago -- began new nonstop service between its Las Vegas hub and Austin, El Paso and San Antonio in Texas; Cleveland; Edmonton, Alberta; and Vancouver, British Columbia. 
 Last month, America West caused another stir in the industry when it cut nonrefundable first-class fares to a level as much as 70 percent below the industry average.

British Airways Offers Fare-and-Hotel Deals
 Got some unfinished business in London? British Airways is running a very low-cost air fare-hotel sale through March 29 from all 19 cities it serves in the United States. The sale runs through next Monday.
 The price from New York, $295 a person (with double occupancy; taxes not included), covers round-trip coach fare, three nights at the Royal National Hotel in Hotel and daily breakfasts. From Los Angeles, the same package is $465. That's for travel Sunday through Wednesday. Weekend trips cost an additional $60. 
 For those wanting to go in more luxury, there's a package with round-trip air fare in World Traveler Plus, British Airways premium economy class, and three nights at the Savoy Hotel at $1,499 a person from New York.

Fare Increase Ends in Failure
 As oil prices soar and threaten a financial recovery for airlines, major carriers tried - and failed - to impose a $10 domestic fare increase over the weekend. 
 The effort failed when Northwest Airlines, as it has in the past, refused to go along, causing competitors to roll back their fare increases yesterday.
 Domestic fares remained lower in January than for the period in 2000, according to the Air Transport Association. JOE SHARKEY


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''JANUARY AIRFARE REVENUE''Amount domestic airlines received each January from passengers' airfares, in cents per mile, excluding taxes.2004DOMESTIC FLIGHTS: 12.06 centsINTERNATIONAL FLIGHTSLATIN AMERICA: 12.82 centsTRANS-ATLANTIC: 9.82 centsTRANS-PACIFIC: 9.32 centsGraphs track the aforementioned types of flights in 2000, 2003, and 2004. (Exact figures are given only for 2004)(Source by Air Transport Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); AIR FARES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (60%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Airlines and Airplanes; Hotels and Motels; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (74%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Verizon Wireless Inc; Alaska Airlines; America West Airlines; British Airways Plc; Northwest Airlines

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (74%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (70%); EL PASO, TX, USA (59%) ALASKA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); OHIO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%) Las Vegas (Nev); Austin (Tex); El Paso (Tex); San Antonio (Tex); Cleveland (Ohio); Edmonton (Alberta); Vancouver (British Columbia)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



22 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: W.W.E. Hall of Fame To Welcome Rose With Open Wallet

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
In the arc of his career, Pete Rose never could have expected this: He will be inducted into the World Wrestling Entertainment's Hall of Fame before he is allowed to be voted into baseball's.
 Rose's service to W.W.E. is minor compared with his setting the major league record of 4,256 hits, but gambling has rendered him unemployable in baseball and ineligible to be enshrined in Cooperstown. In his autobiography, which was published in January, he belatedly admitted to gambling on baseball. 
 His record of service to W.W.E. is slender -- minuscule compared with fellow inductees like Sgt. Slaughter and Jesse Ventura -- but his three appearances on Wrestlemania include dressing as a chicken and being pile-driven into arena mats by Kane, a 7-foot masked monster.
 ''He came in, from totally outside our environment and said, 'What do you want me to do?' '' Vince McMahon, the chairman of W.W.E., said from Atlanta. ''I said, 'Well, we have this 300-pound wrestler named Kane who does the Pile Driver.' Pete says, 'Great, what's that?' And I said, 'He turns you upside down and drives you into the mat.' Without hesitation, he said: 'Is that good? Will there be a crowd reaction?' ''
 Kane was Rose's nemesis at the three Wrestlemanias from 1998 to 2000. Kane will present Rose at his induction.
 Calls seeking comment from Rose through his agent and lawyer were not returned.
 McMahon did not deny that choosing Rose as the wrestling organization's first celebrity inductee offered marketing dividends as a timely way to capitalize on the burst of publicity for Rose's recent book, ''My Prison Without Bars.'' The book has sold 56,406 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which tracks sales to about 70 percent of the bookselling market.
 Rose, who was paid for his past Wrestlemania appearances, will be compensated by W.W.E. to come to New York for the induction March 13 at the New York Hilton and for being at the sold-out Wrestlemania XX show the next night at Madison Square Garden.
 McMahon said that Rose enthusiastically embraced being in the W.W.E.'s Hall of Fame. ''He has a deep, abiding respect for what we do,'' McMahon said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); WRESTLING (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); BOOKSTORES (71%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (70%); BOOK SALES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



23 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Argues Its Case Before PeopleSoft Clients

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

 BODY:
Stepping into a virtual lion's den, the Oracle Corporation, took the case for its $9.4 billion hostile takeover of PeopleSoft directly to a group of PeopleSoft corporate customers yesterday, following the Justice Department's decision last week to sue Oracle to block the deal. 
 Charles Phillips, co-president of Oracle, told attendees at the customer conference that the Justice Department would have difficulty proving its claim that the market for business software programs that automate human resources and financial management processes is not highly competitive. The market is dominated by SAP of Germany, with PeopleSoft and Oracle holding the second and third positions. 
 The Justice Department contends that a merger of Oracle and PeopleSoft would reduce the market to two competitors, leading to higher prices and fewer choices.
 ''It is the government's burden to define the set of customers for whom Oracle, PeopleSoft and SAP are the only options and who are harmed by this,'' Mr. Phillips told attendees of Quest West in San Diego, a user group conference that attracted about 200 representatives from medium-size companies that use products from J.D. Edwards, the business software competitor that PeopleSoft acquired last August. ''For a variety of reasons, we don't think that's possible.''
 Mr. Phillips said that the business enterprise software market is changing all the time and that the barriers to entry are actually quite low. ''While large public companies get the attention, people in the industry, people in this room, know there are many other alternatives,'' he said. 
 Further, he said, Microsoft has already invested $2 billion in acquisitions in the same market. ''We have some big competitors and to compete we need the economies of scale.'' 
 Quest, with about 15,000 members worldwide, had invited executives from both Oracle and PeopleSoft to speak at the conference in the hopes of understanding how Oracle's proposed takeover of PeopleSoft might affect customers. Oracle agreed last month to send an executive to the meeting, but in January PeopleSoft declined to attend, and instead broke official ties with Quest because the group refused to adhere to PeopleSoft's user group requirements, according to Quest and PeopleSoft.
 The president of Quest, Barbara Schmit, said the organization is opposed to Oracle's takeover of PeopleSoft, but invited Mr. Phillips to talk about Oracle's plans in the event that the merger succeeds. Oracle said last week that it would fight the Justice Department's lawsuit, and hired Daniel M. Wall, a lawyer with Latham & Watkins, to defend the company. Mr. Wall said he expected the trial to start in June and last three to four weeks. 
 United States District Court Judge Vaughn R. Walker has been assigned to the case. The trial will be held in San Francisco. Mr. Wall said that lawyers will meet with Judge Walker sometime this week to determine a specific timetable for the case. 
 For Oracle, the goal is to define the market as broadly as possible, antitrust lawyers said. To make that point, Oracle will have to find corporate customers who will testify that there are more than three vendors selling business enterprise software from which they can choose. One thing is certain, the legal case will be costly for Oracle. 
 ''The next three to four months are going to be expensive, with a lot of attorney time spent,'' said Douglas Broder, an antitrust lawyer at Nixon Peabody in New York. ''It could easily run into the seven figures.'' Just how much Oracle will have to spend, Mr. Broder said, ''will depend on how hard they want to play.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (90%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); DIVESTITURES (71%); JUDGES (62%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (60%) Computers and the Internet; Antitrust Actions and Laws; Suits and Litigation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Computer Software; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (96%); LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (80%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Oracle Corp; Peoplesoft Inc; Sap Ag; Justice Department

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (96%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (80%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (80%)

PERSON: Laurie J Flynn; Charles Phillips

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



24 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Javits Center Expansion Overshadowed by Stadium Debate

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Almost from the day the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center opened in 1986 on the West Side of Manhattan, hotel and tourism executives have lobbied to expand it to attract more conventions and trade shows, and with them the patrons who will book rooms, eat at restaurants and attend Broadway shows.
 Eighteen years later, the state and the city are on the verge of announcing a $1.4 billion renovation and addition to the convention center. But that plan is entangled with a proposal to build a $1.4 billion stadium for the Jets between 30th and 34th Streets, on the south side of the center. Both are crucial elements of the city's plans for the West Side and its bid for the 2012 Summer Olympic Games. 
 While the stadium has come under fire from elected officials and West Side residents, as well as Broadway theater owners, the expansion of the convention center has generally received positive reviews. The Jets say they have designed a stadium that would also provide 200,000 square feet of exhibition space usable for conventions.
 ''The goal is to create one unique competitive convention corridor,'' Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said, referring to the plans for the center and the stadium. ''It'll be able to compete effectively for any major event, trade show or convention held in the United States.''
 A new 184-page report by PriceWaterhouseCoopers, which was commissioned by the Javits Convention Center, indicates that nearly doubling the center's size to 1.34 million square feet would attract half a million more visitors, 18 to 20 new trade shows and conventions, and nearly $700 million in additional business a year. But the report does not mention the stadium, a reflection of political and economic tensions. 
 Behind the scenes, some Javits executives, hotel executives and trade show producers have questioned how well the stadium would function with the convention center. More broadly, some economists say that the PriceWaterhouse projections may be too optimistic, given that the trade show industry is suffering from an oversupply of space and lower demand.
 ''The experience in recent years indicates that the expansion of major convention centers doesn't necessarily mean any increase in business,'' said Heywood Sanders, professor of public administration at the University of Texas in San Antonio. ''Convention centers are discounting rates and providing incentives, or literally giving away space for free.''
 Last month, Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Javits development corporation, formally announced that the state supported both projects. The cost of the expanded center would be covered by a hotel tax, cash from the city and refinancing of the center's debt.
 The PriceWaterhouse report envisions an expansion from 38th Street north to 42nd Street, where there would be a hotel and ballroom, but the first phase would extend only to 40th Street, providing more contiguous exhibition space and 235,00 square feet of meeting space. 
 In the past, because of its relatively small size and lack of meeting rooms, the center has had difficulty attracting conventions and medical associations, whose attendees spend the most on hotels, restaurants and entertainment. The report shows that annual attendance is down from its peak in 1997, but PriceWaterhouse concluded that the addition would draw trade shows that do not currently come to New York, as well as larger conventions and professional associations. It warned, however, that while many large trade shows and association meetings have a big economic impact, they also bargain hard for discounts. 
 The center does well despite its size, high labor costs and the city's high hotel rates, the report concludes, because New York is a highly attractive international city in a region with a shortage of exhibition space.
 Business leaders like Jonathan M. Tisch, chief executive of Loews Hotels and chairman of the city's convention and visitors bureau, have supported the expansion project because it would put ''heads on beds'' and draw other tourist business.
 Not everyone, however, agrees that the stadium counts as an expansion of the convention space, even though it could be converted into an exhibition hall. Although the stadium has been described by Mr. Doctoroff as ''the southern expansion of the Javits,'' L. Jay Cross, president of the Jets, was more modest.
 ''We're not saying this is the Javits expansion that they've been waiting for all these many years,'' Mr. Cross said. ''It is a midsize, full-service exhibition hall that will serve as ancillary space for the Javits or stand on its own.''
 Brandishing letters from two trade show producers, Mr. Cross said there was enough demand from conventions and exhibitions that he could easily book 40 events annually, generating an estimated $38 million in tax revenue. The stadium would be connected to the center by an underground tunnel. 
 St. Louis is one of only three cities in the country that operate a convention center in conjunction with a stadium. The St. Louis complex, the Americas Center, is connected to a domed stadium by a short hallway. Bruce T. Sommer, its director, said he books 5 to 10 trade shows a year into the stadium, 4 religious conventions and about 5 consumer shows, as well as concerts and other sporting events. ''Major trade shows do not like noncontiguous space,'' Mr. Sommer said. ''No matter how you break it up, one piece will be better than another piece.''
 Among those who are not sold on the Jets stadium as a convention center is George F. Little II, whose company produces 17 shows a year at the Javits center. Mr. Little said a stadium would be no substitute for an expanded convention center, although he might book the stadium for certain events.
 Mark Schienberg, president of the Greater New York Auto Dealers Association, said: ''The stadium is a good-sized space to work with.'' But the primary need is to get the Javits expanded as much as possible.''
 Walter Mankoff, chairman of Community Board 4, whose district covers the West Side, described the stadium as an expensive project that would require $600 million in public subsidies. He said he doubted that it would do much convention business, but argued that it would bring traffic congestion and pollution.
 ''We do not agree on every detail, but we agree that the convention center needs an expansion and would be extremely helpful to the New York economy,'' Mr. Mankoff said. ''We don't think the stadium is a proper expansion.''
 But even those who support expanding the center worry that the city is pushing harder for the stadium, which would require state legislation.
 The expansion of the convention center is ''the single most important public investment that the city and state can make,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City. ''If a legislative package is not introduced in the next couple of weeks, we'll lose yet another year in what has been a tortuous, decade-long process.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Javits Convention Center is represented by light orange, with the proposed Jets stadium, left, and the planned expansion of the center both in darker orange. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); THEATER (72%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); OLYMPICS (69%); LOBBYING (58%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (54%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (67%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



25 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Assembly Approves Minimum Wage Plan

BYLINE: By Al Baker (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
The State Assembly approved a bill yesterday to gradually raise New York's minimum wage to more than $7 an hour by 2006, saying it would give workers more disposable income, help lift them out of poverty and energize the economy. By an unofficial 127-to-19 vote, the Assembly, which is led by Democrats, voted to raise the state's current $5.15-an-hour wage, the same as the federal minimum, to $6 an hour on Oct. 1; $6.75 an hour on July 1, 2005; and $7.10 an hour on Jan. 1, 2006. The minimum wage has not been increased in New York since March 2000. Twelve states, including many in the Northeast, have a minimum wage above the federal standard. The State Senate, which is led by Republicans, was reluctant to act, arguing that raising the wage would put New York at a disadvantage with other states' wages. But if the federal government does not act soon to raise the minimum wage nationally, ''then we will reassess things,'' said John E. McArdle, a spokesman for the Republican majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, who supports an increase. Al Baker (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



26 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10; THE ARISTIDE RESIGNATION: OUSTED LEADER

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Aristide, Now in Central African Republic, Has Harsh Words for the Haitian Rebels

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, March 1 

 BODY:
Newly arrived in the impoverished Central African Republic, Haiti's ex-president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, on Monday blasted the rebels who ousted him from power on Sunday, saying that ''in overthrowing me, they have chopped down the tree of peace, but it will grow again.'' 
 Government radio in Bangui, the republic's capital, said Mr. Aristide was being accommodated only for a few days, probably until he received permanent asylum in South Africa. 
 But South African officials gave mixed signals as to their willingness to take in Mr. Aristide. Domestic critics of President Thabo Mbeki, one of Mr. Aristide's few international supporters, excoriated the government for even considering it. 
 Mr. Aristide's aircraft landed shortly after dawn in Bangui after a 13-hour overnight trip from Port-au-Prince, Haiti's capital. 
 In a brief radio statement after his arrival, he portrayed himself as a victim of power struggles in his homeland, and predicted the return of popular rule in the tradition of Toussaint L'Ouverture, the father of Haiti's independence movement two centuries ago. 
 But in Port-au-Prince, crowds gathered at the presidential palace to cheer triumphant rebels entering the city. 
 Mr. Aristide's future was unclear. In Bangui, Agence France-Presse quoted government officials as saying that he had been given temporary refuge as a humane gesture in recognition of Haiti's status as the world's first black-ruled republic. But they did not say how long Mr. Aristide would be permitted to stay, or where he would go next. 
 It was widely reported that Mr. Aristide had already sought refuge in South Africa, but had been rebuffed for fear of the political consequences. 
 On Monday, South African officials said Mr. Aristide had made no formal request for asylum in South Africa, and gave no clear signal of whether such a request would be granted. 
 In a midday news conference, South Africa's deputy foreign minister, Aziz Pahad, said that the foreign minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, was discussing asylum, and that ''in principle, we would have no problem'' in granting Mr. Aristide refuge. 
 But a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Ronnie Mamoepa, later said that any final decision on granting asylum to Mr. Aristide would turn on discussions among President Mbeki's cabinet, Haiti's neighbors and leading Western powers like France and the United States. 
 In fact, domestic politics may play a pivotal role in South Africa's decision whether to admit Mr. Aristide.
 A nationwide election for Parliament and local government seats is barely 45 days away, and a quick decision to grant refuge to Mr. Aristide could bolster opposition politicians' charges that President Mbeki has a soft spot for internationally shunned dictators. 
 Mr. Mbeki already is under sustained attack for his friendship with Robert G. Mugabe, the autocratic Zimbabwean leader who is accused of plunging his nation into privation and repressive rule.
 Reports last week, relying on Iraqi newspapers' publication of documents recovered from state archives, tied Mr. Mbeki's ruling African National Congress to potentially illicit oil deals with Iraq in 2001. 
 African National Congress officials have denied wrongdoing, but have yet to rebut the accusations or to deny that they traveled to Baghdad at the time the oil deals were struck. 
 On Monday, opposition political parties seized on rumors that Mr. Aristide might end up in South Africa to accuse the government of debasing the nation's human rights record. 
 ''Mr. Mbeki's best friends are people like Mugabe and Tariq Aziz and Saddam Hussein,'' said Douglas Gibson, the chief parliamentary whip for the Democratic Alliance, South Africa's second-ranking party.
 ''For God's sake,'' he added, ''can't we find some friends who will do some foreign investment in South Africa so we can create jobs for the eight million people who are unemployed?'' 
 Mr. Gibson said that France, the United States or Canada should be willing to give Mr. Aristide refuge -- and that, were they not willing, South Africa had no more compelling reason to grant him asylum. 
 The new Independent Democratic Party, which portrays itself as a force battling a corrupt and entrenched government, said Mr. Mbeki's friendships with autocrats were devaluing South Africa's international standing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (62%) Asylum (Political); Elections; Election Issues

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (89%) Jean-Bertrand Aristide; Thabo (Pres) Mbeki; Michael Wines

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) HAITI (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (95%); CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); FRANCE (79%) Haiti; Central African Republic; South Africa

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



27 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Chinese and American Cultures Clash in Custody Battle for Girl, 5

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Armed with baby pictures and tearful indignation, the two couples come to court each day with their lawyers and supporters aligned on either side of the cherry-paneled chambers. For five years, Jack and Casey He and Jerry and Louise Baker have been tussling over a child who was born to the Hes, but who ended up with the Bakers for what both sides initially agreed was a temporary arrangement. 
 The Hes say their daughter was ''kidnapped by white Christians'' who have been using their wealth and the courts to their advantage. The Bakers say the birth parents are unstable and abdicated their parental rights by failing to provide child support or to visit their daughter for months on end.
 Although the couples signed papers describing the setup as temporary, the Bakers say there was a separate verbal agreement giving them permanent custody of the child, a contention the birth parents deny. ''Why would we visit our daughter every week if we wanted to give her away?'' Mrs. He asked tearfully. 
 The Hes are facing a deportation order for unrelated reasons, but have been allowed to stay in the country until the custody dispute is resolved. 
 The Bakers' lawyers say that what ultimately matters is the welfare of 5-year-old Anna Mae He, who has seen her biological parents only once in more than three years as a result of a court order. ''What kind of quality of life is the child going to have in China?'' asked Larry Parrish, a lawyer for the Bakers. ''Common sense dictates that to take a child out of an environment where she's firmly attached and settled is the ultimate devastation.''
 But in this case, common sense is a matter of debate. The trial, in its second week, has exposed a chasm between American and Chinese cultures, conflicting notions about what defines a good parent and the extent to which the legal system can become a wedge between parents and their children. 
 Each day dozens of Chinese from the Memphis area flock to the Shelby County Courthouse wearing yellow ribbons and buttons demanding the family's reunification. Although the case has received little notice outside Tennessee, it has been closely followed in the Chinese-language press, inflaming passions among Chinese-Americans and drawing concern from the Chinese Embassy in Washington, which has sent a representative to the trial. 
 Cecilia Lin, who comes to court each day and helps serve Chinese food to spectators during breaks, said Asians could not understand how the Bakers' material wealth would trump blood ties between mother and child.
 ''Some Americans think they can provide better environment for children because of money, but Chinese think love and enduring care is more important,'' said Ms. Lin, 62, a Taiwanese-born painter in Memphis.
 The Hes' troubles began in 1998, soon after the pregnant Mrs. He arrived in this country. A doctoral candidate in economics at the University of Memphis, Mr. He had only recently met Mrs. He in China through an arranged marriage. Mrs. He, 35, a store manager in China, spoke no English and still struggles with the language.
 Soon after her arrival, Mr. He was accused of sexual assault by a fellow student. University officials suspended his scholarship and student stipend, the couple's primary means of support. Mr. He's student visa was revoked, and immigration officials began deportation proceedings against the couple. Mr. He was eventually acquitted of the assault charges. 
 As their financial and legal problems deepened and Mrs. He's pregnancy advanced, a friend suggested that they contact Mid-South Christian Services, a private adoption agency in Memphis. In their testimony this week, agency employees said the couple, who had no health insurance, were seeking a foster family of means to take care of the child while they sorted out their finances. Legal documents they later signed spelled out the arrangement as temporary.
 What the couple says they did not understand was that the word ''temporary'' was not what it seemed: regaining custody required the blessing of the Bakers and the consent of a judge. Agency and court employees and a Chinese language translator have testified that no one explained the complex nature of the agreement. The couple, they said, was not advised to hire a lawyer. 
 Until the child's second birthday, they made weekly visits to the Baker home. Tensions increased after Anna Mae's first birthday, when the Hes asked a judge for custody. Though they had found work at Chinese restaurants, the request was denied because they lacked financial stability. 
 Both sides agree that the discord surrounding the visits reached a peak on Anna Mae's second birthday, when the Bakers refused to allow the Hes to take her out of the house for a family portrait. The Bakers called the police, who, Mr. He said, warned them to stay away from the Baker home or face arrest. Fearful of further trouble with the law, Mr. He says he complied. What Mr. He says he did not know was that under Tennessee law, a four-month lapse in visits can be construed as abandonment, part of the legal argument for terminating parental rights. 
 David Siegel and Richard Gordon, lawyers for the Hes, argue that the Bakers planned all along to keep Anna Mae. They cite their foster parent application to the agency, which mentions their desire to adopt a child and raise him or her in a Christian home. 
 Mrs. Baker also kept a secret journal titled ''Visits from Jack and Casey,'' which Mr. Siegel contends shows the Bakers' true intentions. The entries document Mrs. Baker's distress over the bonding of mother and child and growing frustration as the birth parents demanded more time with their daughter. ''We would like to get visits to every other week,'' she wrote when Anna Mae was 8 months old. ''We feel like they would wean away, but the last two visits we could see Casey is wanting to come more.'' The Bakers have four children of their own.
 The legal fight has nearly bankrupted the Bakers, who recently sold their house to pay their lawyers. Mr. Baker, 45, is a mortgage banker and his wife, 42, is a part-time Bible teacher. The Hes, who have subsequently had two children, are being represented without charge. 
 In seeking to terminate the Hes' parental rights, the Bakers depict Mr. He as untrustworthy and his wife as prone to hysterics. Mrs. He once picketed the Bakers' home, and on another occasion, they say, tried to wrest Anna Mae away during a chance encounter at a Wal-Mart. ''To me, if Casey truly loved her daughter, she would leave her with us,'' Mrs. Baker said. She added that a life in China, where female babies are sometimes deemed inferior to males, would be a hardship. 
 A Circuit Court judge, Robert Childers, who has been hearing the custody case for 12 hours each day, weekends included, is expected to issue a ruling in the coming weeks. The Hes fear that even if they win, a drawn-out appeals process will further prolong the separation between child and parents. A court order has kept the Hes from having contact with their daughter since 2002.
 Chris Zawisza, director of the Child Advocacy Clinic at the University of Memphis Law School, said the convoluted and drawn-out legal fight partly obscured what in many ways was a struggle over cultural values. Much like the impassioned tug of war over Elian Gonzalez, the child who was ultimately returned to his father in Cuba, the clash over Anna Mae pits the perceived superiority of American culture over that of another country. ''The case shows we still don't have consensus in our country about a parent's freedom to choose how and where they raise their children,'' Ms. Zawisza said. 
 Mr. He says that in China, Anna Mae would benefit from an adoring extended family, many of whom are well educated. Mr. He also says that he has been offered a job in China, and that he will make enough money to provide his daughter a comfortable life. ''If we do not have a reunification, I'm afraid our daughter will grow up thinking we abandoned her,'' he said. ''I think that is worse than anything else.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Supporters at lunch yesterday in a jury room with Jack and Casey He, far left, who say they never agreed to give up their daughter for adoption to Jerry and Louise Baker, right. (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Rollin A. Riggs for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (92%); RELIGION (92%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); DEPORTATION (71%); ASIAN AMERICANS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%) Adoptions; Suits and Litigation; Adoptions; Chinese-Americans; Child Custody and Support; Sex Crimes; Christians and Christianity ; Foster Care; Deportation

ORGANIZATION: Mid-South Christian Services; University of Memphis

PERSON: Casey He; Jack He; Ann Mae He; Louise Baker; Jerry Baker; Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (79%) Tennessee; Memphis (Tenn); China

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



28 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 860 words

PERSON: Paul M. Sweezy

HEADLINE: Paul Sweezy, 93, Marxist Publisher and Economist, Dies

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Paul M. Sweezy, a Harvard University economist who left academia and became the nation's leading Marxist intellectual and publisher during the cold war and the McCarthy era, died Saturday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 93.
 The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter, Lybess Sweezy, said.
 Mr. Sweezy did not think of himself as a Stalinist or sectarian. His Marxism developed as a response to the Great Depression, and his mentor was a famed conservative economist, Joseph Schumpeter, who counted on spirited entrepreneurs to lift the economy through a process of destruction and rebuilding. While Schumpeter wanted less government, Mr. Sweezy wanted more to offset what he considered capitalism's failings. 
 Still, the two men worked together at Harvard in the late 1930's and early 1940's. Schumpeter cited his young friend in several of his own works and endorsed Mr. Sweezy for a tenured professorship at Harvard, even campaigning on his behalf. The slot went to a non-Marxist, and Mr. Sweezy soon left academia. Because of an inheritance from his father, a banker, he had enough money to support himself. Mr. Sweezy later told friends that if he had been forced to work for a living, he might have been more of a conformist.
 Instead, in 1949 he became co-founder and co-editor of The Monthly Review, an independent Marxist journal published in Manhattan that he continued to edit and contribute to until well into the 1990's. The magazine still appears, although its monthly circulation has fallen to 7,000, from 12,000 at its peak in the 1970's. For the first issue, Albert Einstein contributed an article titled ''Why Socialism?'' and over the years the bylines included such famous radicals or Marxists as W. E. B. Du Bois, Jean-Paul Sartre, Che Guevara and Joan Robinson.
 ''The Monthly Review was attractive to people who were leaving the Communist Party and other sectarian groups,'' said John Bellamy Foster, a co-editor of the publication now. ''It was and is Marxist, but did not hew to the party line or get into sectarian struggles.''
 That reflected Mr. Sweezy's approach in the 100 articles or so that he wrote over the years and the more than 20 books he signed as author, co-author or editor. The most famous was ''Monopoly Capital: An Essay on the American Economic and Social Order'' (Monthly Review Press, 1966), with Paul A. Baran as co-author.
 That book argued that unregulated market economies have a tendency to stagnate and to develop oligopolies in which a few companies dominate each industry and keep pushing up prices, fattening profits for the oligopolies but damping economic activity because of a lack of price competition.
 What saved the United States from that fate in the 1960's, the authors wrote, were temporary phenomenon: military spending, robust consumerism and the growing demand for autos because of rapidly expanding suburbs and the new Interstate highway system.
 Paul Marlor Sweezy was born on April 10, 1910, the youngest of three sons of Everett P. Sweezy, vice president of First National Bank of New York, and Caroline Wilson Sweezy. He earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard in 1931 and his Ph.D. in 1937. By then he was a Marxist, having taken that step during a year at the London School of Economics.
 ''I became convinced,'' he wrote much later, ''that mainstream economics of the kind I had been taught at Harvard had little to contribute toward understanding the major events and trends of the 20th century.''
 Still, back at Harvard, as a graduate student and then an instructor, he came in contact with Schumpeter and a friendship flourished, although they supported different solutions for ending the Depression. For Schumpeter, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal measures suppressed entrepreneurs in their normal process of creative destruction and innovation.
 For Mr. Sweezy, who borrowed from Keynesian theory as well as Marxism, government planning and intervention had a role, although working people also had to intervene. Listening to their debates, Paul Samuelson, the Nobel laureate, spoke of Schumpeter as ''the foxy Merlin'' and Mr. Sweezy as the ''young Sir Galahad'' who early on ''established himself as among the most promising economists of his generation.''
 During World War II, Mr. Sweezy spent four years in the Army as an officer in the Office of Strategic Services. After returning briefly to Harvard as a teacher and having failed to gain a tenured position, he left in 1946 to pursue the goal of establishing ''a serious and authentic American brand of Marxism.''
 The pursuit was not easy in the McCarthy era. He found himself in the courts in the 1950's after he refused to turn over to the attorney general of New Hampshire his notes from a lecture at the University of New Hampshire. The attorney general accused him of subversive activities and the case eventually went to the United States Supreme Court, which ruled in Mr. Sweezy's favor.
 Mr. Sweezy's first wife, Nancy, and his second wife, Zirel, survive, as do three children, Samuel, Lybess and Martha; two stepchildren, Jeffrey and Jennifer Dowd; seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul M. Sweezy in the 1970's. (Photo by Monthly Review) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (89%); CARTELS (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); HEART DISEASE (57%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



29 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1987 words

HEADLINE: Like Japan in the 1980's, China Poses Big Economic Challenge

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China 

 BODY:
When Japan, at the zenith of its economic power, built a huge airport in Osaka in the late 1980's, the project set off a seven-year trade battle with the United States over the nearly complete exclusion of non-Japanese companies.
 China, Japan's heir as Asia's rising star, is now completing its own immense airport here in Guangzhou, the sprawling commercial center of affluent southeastern China. But the Chinese are going about it differently.
 American companies designed the terminal, its air-conditioning system and the flight information system. A German company engineered the vaulting roof, a Danish company produced the boarding gates and a Dutch company, the check-in counters. Chinese women in broad-brimmed straw hats wield shovels and brooms across from a modern air-traffic-control tower designed by a company from Singapore. 
 The welcome that China is offering to multinational companies and foreign investment has left many Western business executives so critical of a closed Japan more than a decade ago, enthusiastically embracing China, its cheap work force and its huge markets. 
 But that same openness -- combined with China's vast population of 1.3 billion and military muscle -- makes it an even greater long-term economic challenge to the United States than Japan seemed to be in the 1980's, according to a growing number of executives, economists and officials.
 While China's economy is still one-third the size of Japan's, the potential size of its market has made it very hard for companies to say no when Beijing officials demand that they build factories, transfer the latest technology or adopt Chinese technical standards.
 Japan has effectively run out of low-wage workers for its industries, and it quickly brought much of its economy up to and in some cases beyond Western technological standards. China still has vast reserves of cheap labor in inland areas and many backward industries that can grow swiftly as they copy Western and Japanese methods.
 ''China could do what Japan did, as a very fast follower, but China could do it bigger and better and for a longer period of time,'' said Steven Weber, an Asia scholar at the University of California at Berkeley. ''It's not necessarily as vulnerable as Japan was.''
 But while Japan's danger to other economies over the last decade has taken the forms of economic stagnation and political lassitude, China poses the risk of fast, sharp shocks. 
 Its transition from a planned economy to a form of capitalism seems to make it especially susceptible to economic booms and busts, and Chinese officials have begun worrying that an unsustainable economic bubble is developing. At the same time, China's one-party system may struggle to adapt to the social tensions brought to the surface by rapid economic development.
 Optimists see it surmounting such obstacles. ''Once China passes the high growth, it will have the bursting of the bubble,'' said Eisuke Sakakibara, Japan's former vice minister of finance for international affairs, ''but that will happen in 20 years. China is Japan of the 1960's.''
 Others express greater caution. David Cunningham, the president of Asian and Pacific operations at Fed-Ex, said the company was considering the new Guangzhou airport as the site of an Asian hub, somewhat like its Memphis operations. FedEx is watching China's growth carefully.
 ''What could be devastating is if the global business-investing person becomes burned or disillusioned and takes their investment elsewhere, and today it can happen at the click of a finger; ask Southeast Asia about it,'' Mr. Cunningham said, referring to the Asian financial crisis of 1997-98. The region is still recovering.
 Like the Japanese challenge of a generation ago, China's strength is drawing growing attention in American politics. Senator John Edwards of North Carolina has become the main challenger to Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts for the Democratic presidential nomination by emphasizing jobs lost to trade, especially trade with China; Mr. Kerry says he and Mr. Edwards essentially agree on trade questions. 
 The Bush administration over the last year has tried to assuage worries about job losses by talking tough with the Chinese -- in particular, demanding that China let the exchange value of its currency float upward to raise the price of its exports. But it has also continued to assert its faith in a policy of free trade.
 China's strengths are indeed impressive. Its wage advantage is much greater than Japan's was a decade or two ago. China has the diplomatic muscle to resist trade and currency concessions that might undermine its competitive edge. And its opening to foreign investment brings China the latest technology and the corporate connections overseas that help it fight curbs on its exports.
 For all these reasons, China's trade surplus with the United States has soared, quintupling in the last decade to $124 billion in 2003. By comparison, Japan's surplus did not quite triple in the decade when its economy conjured the most anxiety among Americans. And in the last decade, it has leveled off, at $66 billion last year.
 China's biggest competitive advantage, its immense and low-paid work force, is on view here in the southeast, at places like the BBK Electronics Corporation's air-conditioned factory in Dongguan, a two-hour drive from the new Guangzhou airport.
 Sun Xin, 20, is one of nearly 4,000 employees, most sitting on backless stools at counters under fluorescent lights, as they snap and screw together fairly sophisticated portable and countertop DVD players. Wearing a blue company baseball hat and a company-issued shirt, she works 8 to 11 hours a day stuffing power cords, remote controls and other DVD accessories into plastic bags. 
 Du Anan, an identically dressed 18-year-old on the other side of the counter, then tapes the bags shut.
 Like most of the workers, Ms. Sun and Ms. Du are migrants, having each taken a 30-hour ride aboard slow Chinese trains from their impoverished villages in north central China. Each earns $60 to $75 a month, a pittance by American standards but a lot in rural China, where 200 million people live on less than $1 a day.
 ''There is nothing to do at home,'' Ms. Sun said. ''I came here to learn to do more myself.''
 She and Ms. Du live in factory dormitories and say they rarely venture out. But the women express the same excitement, in almost the same words, about having come even to a grimy, smoggy city like Dongguan. ''I want to see the outside world,'' Ms. Du said. 
 China has 10 times the population of Japan, with more unemployed adults in rural areas than the entire American work force. Raising the wages of so many people to the levels of industrial nations will take a long time.
 Through the 1970's and 80's, Japanese wages rose 70 percent faster than American wages, according to data from the International Labor Organization. That, together with rapid appreciation in the value of the yen, helped push up Japanese factory wages from one-third of American levels to rough parity.
 Chinese wages, though, were no more than 4 percent of American and Japanese wages in 2002, the most recent year available. While official Chinese statistics show that wages doubled from 1996 to 2002, some factory owners say that pay has been flat, or even declined slightly in recent years, as rural migrants continue to pour into the cities.
 In the meantime, the productivity gap is being closed by a rapid investment in infrastructure as China puts a third of the world's steel production and half its cement into extending modern roads, power grids and telecommunications links across the country.
 BBK Electronics is an example of how China has benefited from opening up to the global economy. Money from Taiwan and Russia, as well as local Chinese money, helped build the company's factory seven years ago, said Louis Leung, the marketing manager, and BBK now makes many devices sold in the United States under the Memorex, Philco and Lafayette brand names.
 If Japan profited handsomely from selling videocassette recorders two decades ago, China is coming to dominate the production of the next generation of DVD technology. BBK started by licensing technology from Sony, but it now has 300 researchers coming up with refinements, Mr. Leung said. On a laptop computer, he plays a company presentation that ends with BBK's two long-term goals: ''to realize modernization'' and ''to challenge Sony.''
 Japan rapidly caught up with the West by licensing technology from companies like Caterpillar that failed to foresee the risk of Japanese competitors like Komatsu. But China has both licensed technology and used the potential of a huge market to lure foreign investment.
 That has not only brought further investment but until recently has also helped insulate China from trade clashes. Many of the same multinationals that once fought with the Japanese, like the Detroit automakers, are now big investors in China -- investors that oppose trade restrictions on it.
 But as the Chinese work to build industrial cornerstones like the auto and semiconductor industries, this may change. Nor has China avoided some trade conflicts. Executives in many industries describe China as more open to imports than Japan, but still not nearly so open as the United States. From soybeans to commercial banking, American businesses complain that China has thrown up regulatory barriers that limit their ability to compete.
 Daryl Hatano, vice president for public policy at the Semiconductor Industry Association in San Jose, Calif., said his group might ask Washington to file a protest with the World Trade Organization if China did not halt its practice of charging taxes as low as 3 percent for domestically produced computer chips, compared with 17 percent for imported chips.
 Even with those taxes, imported chips hold 85 percent of the Chinese market; by comparison, it took tense negotiations in 1986 for President Ronald Reagan's administration to win an agreement giving foreign manufacturers a goal of 20 percent of the Japanese market; by 1995, the sales rose to 30 percent.
 So far, the Bush administration has limited its Chinese trade cases to fairly small categories of exports like brassieres, a few kinds of furniture and color television sets.
 In part, analysts say, Washington chooses to act gingerly out of geopolitical considerations. China is a nuclear power that, unlike Japan, does not depend on the United States for military protection. Yet the United States looks to Beijing for help in coping with problems in countries including North Korea and Pakistan. So while American officials can press the Chinese to let the yuan float, they cannot press as hard as they did with Japan in 1986, when Tokyo was spurred into letting its currency rise sharply against the dollar, eroding its exports' competitiveness.
 ''Washington is concerned about China setting its own agenda,'' said John S. Chen, the Hong Kong-born chairman and chief executive of Sybase, an American software company that has expanded aggressively in both Japan and China. ''The Japanese were more friendly.''
 The biggest question lingering over China is how vulnerable it remains to acute setbacks -- a banking failure, an inflationary spiral, even a temporary economic bust. Citing overcapacity and excessive investment in some sectors of the economy, the Chinese central bank warned recently that ''we really cannot be optimistic about the situation of inflation.'' A crack in the economy could shake governments across East Asia that have tied their economies to China's, warns Ajay Kapur, a strategist in Hong Kong with Salomon Smith Barney. 
 For a parable about economies that seem as if they could prosper indefinitely, Chinese officials need look no farther than to Osaka and its huge airport. The artificial island on which it was built a few years ago is slowly sinking in the Pacific.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Construction at Guangzhou airport, expected to open this summer. (Photo by Grischa Ruschendorf for The New York Times)(pg. C2)
DVD players being assembled at a factory in Dongguan, China. (Photo by Grischa Ruschendorf for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Distinct Advantages''Chinese wages remain far below American and Japanese wages despite rapid economic growth. With China's enormous number of unemployed people in rural areas estimated at 150 million the gap is unlikely to close quickly.Graph tracks the average manufacturing wages for the United States, Japan*, and China from 1978-2002.Data come from the three countries' domestic wage surveys, which calculate wages differently. Figures for China and Japan may include some items counted as benefits in the United States.*Large annual variations in Japanese wages mostly reflect fluctuations in the exchange rate between the dollar and the yen.(Sources by International Monetary Fund
CEIC
 Morgan Stanley Research)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Seeing Parallels''China's economy is growing as fast as Japan's did in the 1950's and 60's.Graphs track year-over-year change in gross domestic product for China*, Japan, and the United States from the 50's (70's for China) through the year 2000.China*: $1.36 trillionJapan: $4.31 trillionUnited States: $10.99 trillion*1975 is earliest figure available.(Source by J.P. Morgan Chase)(pg. C2)Map of China highlighting Guangzhou: New industry and commerce is concentrated in Guangzhou, in China's thriving southeast region. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); TRENDS (76%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Geographic Profiles; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Foreign Investments; Multinational Companies

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (92%); OSAKA, JAPAN (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) SOUTH CHINA (94%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (93%); SINGAPORE (79%) China; Japan; Guangzhou (China); China; China

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



30 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; BUSINESS TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Many Return to Lap of Luxury With No Tight Belts

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
David Falk, the sports agent, recounts this story about Michael Jordan, one of his clients. The owner of a hockey team was recently telling him and Mr. Jordan about a technology entrepreneur whose net worth had plunged to $50 million from about $1 billion in the dot-com crash. ''Michael looked at him horrified and said to me, 'Does that mean he has to fly commercial now?''' Mr. Falk recalled.
 Not likely. Living high on the hog is very much back in vogue in business travel these days, for both the rich and not so rich.
 After several lean years, corporate-jet travel is recovering. Five-star hotels are proliferating as the big chains rush to establish their brands in cities where the higher-ranking corporate employees, who are often acutely aware of the cachet a certain hotel brand carries, are able to spend top dollar while traveling on business. 
 ''We get very little price resistance,'' said Simon F. Cooper, the president and chief operating officer of the Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, which operates 55 hotels worldwide and has entered a venture to open new five-star hotels branded with Bulgari, the Italian luxury jeweler. 
 Like other American-based chains, including Hyatt International, Ritz-Carlton is growing in a widening market. ''We've expanded very strongly in North America,'' Mr. Cooper said.
 Other markets with big growth potential are China and the rest of Asia, as well as Europe and the Middle East. ''We need to be in Cairo; we need a much larger hotel in Dubai; we should be in Beirut,'' Mr. Cooper said.
 International travel is also a robust luxury market for airlines. Two weeks ago, Virgin Atlantic Airways, a unit of the Virgin Group, opened a 7,000-square-foot clubhouse in Terminal 4 at Kennedy International Airport for passengers flying its new upper-class suite service, which features individual cubicles with flat-bed seats that have mattresses.
 Most airline lounges are hidden behind oak doors, but this one is partly open on a mezzanine, easily seen by the people below, in what a Virgin Atlantic executive called an ''aspirational'' marketing ploy. 
 Virgin Atlantic's archrival, British Airways, recently expanded its flat-bed business-class service to flights between Atlanta and Gatwick Airport in London, while ridiculing the ''increasingly dowdy BusinessElite cabins'' of Delta Air Lines.
 In the last two years, more than a dozen foreign and domestic airlines with international service in the United States have spent more than $1 billion on flat-bed seating, in-cabin lounges and other luxuries to grab a share of the international business-class market. This segment began rebounding late last year as corporate travel budgets relaxed and fares on long-haul routes moderated. 
 ''If people are going to spend the money, they want to be on an airline where they know they're going to be comfortable,'' said Robert Laney, the president of 1st-Air, which sells discounted international business-class seats. He said the company's bookings were up 20 percent in the first six weeks of this year from a year earlier, ''about where we were in 2001.''
 Of course, just as in the American economy at large, the gap between the haves and the have-nots is growing in the area of business travel.
 Mr. Falk is unabashedly one of the haves. He recently upgraded his business jet from a midsize seven-seat Learjet 60, with a range of about 2,500 miles, to a new ''super midsize'' Bombardier Challenger 300, which seats eight and has a 3,100-mile range.
 ''Before, most of my travel was trips of about two and a half hours, so that was a good size for me,'' said Mr. Falk, who owns a 200-hour-a-year share of the plane -- in which he says he is usually the only passenger -- through Bombardier's Flexjet fractional-share program. ''But now, I've started to make some movies, and I go to L.A. once a month. So the 300 is now the perfect size for me.''
 But it is not just the superrich who are flying high these days.
 Though sales of corporate jets have declined significantly since 2001, increasing numbers of businesspeople are riding domestically on fancy business jets through fractional-share programs or an expanding range of luxury air-charter operations that market themselves as a comfortable, time-efficient alternative to the commercial airlines. 
 At the same time, some commercial airlines are making a grab for the growing numbers of business-jet customers.
 Last year, for example, Delta Air Lines started Delta AirElite, a luxury charter service that uses 400 business jets throughout the country. And a new charter venture called Tomlin Air began operating last month using Gulfstream III business jets on shuttle routes between Boston, New York and Washington.
 Later this month, Tomlin -- which has three Gulfstream III's and a Gulfstream IV -- plans to start operating luxury charter flights between New York and Los Angeles, said Daniel S. Leon, the company's president. The fare: $4,800 each way. 
 ''You can buy a first-class seat on a commercial flight for maybe $3,000,'' Mr. Leon said. ''But a lot of people are fed up'' with commercial airlines, he said. Even with luxury charter fares more than three times as expensive, ''there is a definite market out there.'' 
 Of course, luxury travel is not what most business travelers experience, especially domestically. After mid-2001, when the economy soured, the tightening of corporate budgets shunted many executives onto cramped low-cost airlines, while money-losing mainstream airlines simultaneously cut service and comforts. However, many frequent fliers who remained with the major airlines became accustomed to flying first class. 
 Today, first-class domestic cabins are usually filled almost exclusively with passengers who paid coach fares but were upgraded through airline loyalty programs.
 As more business travelers become accustomed to the comforts of traveling in luxury and grow more disenchanted with commercial air travel, the business-jet industry is grabbing their attention with popular new products like charter networks and plans that allow the purchase of jet time by the hour.
 One result is that more corporate travel departments are shifting at least a portion of their travel to business jets, often as a way to fill gaps in the retrenching commercial air system.
 ''We're seeing a lot of people now saying, 'Well, I don't really have to decide between whether I'm going to be Zsa Zsa Gabor or Joe Sixpack when I travel; I'm going to use this when it makes sense and use it efficiently and smartly,''' said Trevor Cornwell, vice president for strategy and business development at Bombardier. ''It's on a trip like when you get to California and you still have three or four hops to make that this begins to look very good as an option.''
 And though business-jet orders and deliveries have slumped since their peak three years ago, Honeywell predicts a gradual recovery in orders this year and an expansion in deliveries next year. 
 Mr. Falk, the sports agent, said that while flying his own business jet is ''very expensive,'' it makes sense as a time-saver. 
 ''I live in Washington, and when I'd go to New York I used to say, 'Should I spent $200 on the shuttle or $2,000 on a private jet?''' he said. ''A few times, I'd take the shuttle, end up waiting on the runway at La Guardia for two hours, and I'd curse myself out for being cheap. So I just made up my mind I was going to spend a certain amount of money every year to travel.
 ''I am not an extravagant person,'' Mr. Falk insisted. ''But once you start doing this, it's very difficult to go back.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: David and Rhonda Falk aboard a jet made by Bombardier, which offers a flex-time ownership program for business and private travel. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (88%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); HOTEL CHAINS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); JEWELRY (74%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (73%); FINE JEWELRY MFG (66%) Airlines and Airplanes; Advertising and Marketing; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (84%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (83%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (53%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Bombardier Inc

TICKER: H (NYSE) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (56%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LEBANON (79%); EUROPE (74%); MIDDLE EAST (73%); ASIA (73%); JORDAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



31 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: HSBC Says Profit Jumped 41% in 2003

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, March 1 

 BODY:
HSBC Holdings, the world's second-largest bank, on Monday reported an increase of almost 41 percent in profit in 2003, buoyed by its purchase of the consumer lender Household International in the United States. 
 Executives used Monday's earnings announcement to revisit the bank's plans to increase its investment banking business. HSBC, whose notoriously thrifty chairman, Sir John Bond, has in the past derided the expenses and salaries associated with investment banking, plans to continue to expand in the sector this year, particularly in the mergers advisory and equity businesses, the bank executives said. 
 The far-flung bank, which lags only Citigroup in market capitalization within the financial services sector, earned $8.77 billion in 2003, a 40.5 percent increase from the year before. Pretax profit was up 33 percent, to $12.8 billion, and revenue increased 54 percent, to $41.1 billion. 
 HSBC has made a big push into North America, buying the Mexican bank Grupo Financiero Bital in 2002 and Household International last year. About 70 percent of the increase in pretax profit for the year stemmed from those acquisitions, with four-fifths of that percentage, or $1.8 billion, from Household alone. 
 ''The Household acquisition has been great for them,'' said Alan Beaney, fund manager with Principal Investment Management in Sevenoaks, England, which specializes in British stocks. By buying Household, which makes loans to people with poor credit histories, HSBC made the company more profitable immediately, because HSBC's AAA credit rating slashed Household's cost of financing.
 HSBC has had a mercurial relationship with investment banking in recent years. In early 2002, the bank decimated its business by telling bankers and analysts in the unit that there would be no bonuses because 2001 had been such a poor year. Dozens of employees left. But in June 2003, the bank hired John Studzinski of Morgan Stanley, and it has slowly been adding bankers since. 
 HSBC said on Monday that it earned $4.44 billion in pretax profit from corporate and investment banking in 2003, a 14 percent increase from the year before.
 ''Our advisory revenues are growing, and we are investing in that business,'' Douglas Flint, the bank's finance director, said during a news conference. The bank is ''encouraged by the number of senior experienced bankers that want to join us,'' he said. 
 Sir John, who is so cost-conscious he travels coach on business flights under three hours, said on Monday that HSBC planned to pick up investment banking business from its existing corporate loan and bond customers. 
 But analysts and investors say there may still be too great a culture clash between HSBC's thrifty style and the high-risk, high-salaried world of investment banking. ''That is probably the weakest bit of their strategy,'' Mr. Beaney said. 
 HSBC's top banker made $:12.6 million ($23.5 million) in 2003, the company said Monday, or about six times Sir John's salary. Within the bank there's ''quite a good understanding that some people get paid more than others,'' particularly in trading and investment banking, Sir John said.
 The bank has no plans to buy a competitor to get into the business, he added. ''Taking over an investment bank is one of the riskiest things we could do,'' Sir John said. 
 In 2004, HSBC expects to expand geographically. ''China, India, Brazil and Mexico will become increasingly important to the global economy,'' Sir John said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir John Bond said yesterday that HSBC planned to get more involved in investment banking in 2004. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BONDS (89%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%) Company Reports ; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); HSBC MEXICO SA (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Hsbc Holdings

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: JOHN BOND (90%) Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



32 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Experts See Risks as China Asserts Economic Power
As China increasingly welcomes multinational companies and foreign investment, many Western business executives have become positively enraptured by the company's cheap work force and its huge markets.
 But that same openness -- combined with China's vast population and military muscle -- makes it an even bigger long-term economic challenge to the United States than Japan seemed to be in the 1980's, according to a growing number of executives, economists and officials. [Page A1.]

Changes on Enron Task Force
Leslie R. Caldwell, who has headed the Justice Department's task force investigating the collapse of Enron, is stepping down to pursue a job in the private sector. Her longtime deputy, Andrew Weissmann, will oversee the task force. Other prominent prosecutors on the task force are also moving on as its primary responsibilities shift from investigating potential crimes to trying to prove criminal charges in court. [C10.]

Effort to Unseat Eisner Continues
Two former Walt Disney directors pursued their campaign to oust Michael D. Eisner, Disney's chairman and chief executive. The action took place as the company's annual meeting is set to take place tomorrow. [C13.]

Yahoo to Charge for Web Listings
Yahoo said yesterday that it would start charging money for companies that want to improve the ways that their Web sites are listed in its search engine, using a controversial practice called paid inclusion. [C4.]

Oracle Takes Case to Customers
Oracle took the case for its $9.4 billion hostile takeover of PeopleSoft directly to a group of PeopleSoft corporate customers after the Justice Department's decision last week to sue Oracle to block the deal. [C4.]

An Encouraging Sign on Jobs
United States manufacturers may finally be close to adding jobs after 42 consecutive months of layoffs, a survey released yesterday suggested, but they also face escalating pricing pressures that could squeeze profits. [C17.]

Stocks Rise on Economic News
Stocks rose on positive job news from manufacturers. The Dow jumped 94.22 points, to 10,678.14. The Nasdaq rose 27.98 points, to 2,057.80. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 11.03, at 1,155.97. [C13.]

Sprint Is Seen as Primed for a Deal
By moving over the weekend to combine its wireless tracking stock with the stock of its traditional phone operations, Sprint has helped stoke anticipation on Wall Street that it is preparing to join in the consolidation of the telecommunications industry by becoming either an acquirer or a takeover target. That may not be what Gary Forsee, Sprint's chief executive, intended. Mr. Forsee has gone out of his way recently to say that Sprint is well positioned to compete as a stand-alone company. [C10.]

20 Are Arrested in Hong Kong
Investigators have arrested 20 people in Hong Kong in a financial scandal involving accusations of bribery and rigging of share prices by corporate executives, fund managers, a research analyst and a securities broker. [World Business, Section W.]

Oscar Ads Trump Super Bowl's
The Super Bowl is supposed to be the biggest day of the year for advertising, but when measured against the Academy Awards this year, it seems, well, hobbit-size. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C6.]

Showing Attitude at the Airport
Airline passengers showing an ''offensive attitude'' at an airport security screening station could be subject to a fine from the Transportation Security Administration. But what about the attitude of the person doing the screening? Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C9.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,678.14 up 94.22Nasdaq composite -- 2,057.80 up 27.9810-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.99% up 0.01The euro -- $1.2449 down 0.0046The dollar -- 108.95 yen down 0.21Graph tracks share prices of Sprint for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (87%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); WEB SITES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (91%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (91%); DIS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (91%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: GARY D FORSEE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



33 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Outlines Risk in Yuan Policy

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
China should shore up its ''quite weak'' banking system to prevent instability as it moves toward floating the yuan's value against the dollar, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has told a United States senator.
 China needs to improve banks' internal controls by giving local managers more training and authority, Mr. 
Greenspan wrote. He was responding to questions posed at a Feb. 12 hearing by Richard Shelby, chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. 
 To float its currency, China would also have to lift capital controls, allowing domestic investors to pull money from the local banking system. Such action might ''cause an outflow of deposits from Chinese banks, destabilizing the system,'' Mr. Greenspan wrote to Senator Shelby, Republican of Alabama. ''Financial instability in a major emerging market economy such as China would present a risk to the global economic outlook.'' 
 In a speech last Friday, Mr. Greenspan said a revaluation of the yuan was a ''fairly reasonable expectation'' and an increase in productivity in China ''will drive the exchange rate upward.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (74%); TRENDS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; Banks and Banking

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); RICHARD SHELBY (79%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Richard C (Sen) Shelby

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



34 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Maestro of Chutzpah

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The traditional definition of chutzpah says it's when you murder your parents, then plead for clemency because you're an orphan. Alan Greenspan has chutzpah.
 Last week Mr. Greenspan warned of the dangers posed by budget deficits. But even though the main cause of deficits is plunging revenue -- the federal government's tax take is now at its lowest level as a share of the economy since 1950 -- he opposes any effort to restore recent revenue losses. Instead, he supports the Bush administration's plan to make its tax cuts permanent, and calls for cuts in Social Security benefits. 
 Yet three years ago Mr. Greenspan urged Congress to cut taxes, warning that otherwise the federal government would run excessive surpluses. He assured Congress that those tax cuts would not endanger future Social Security benefits. And last year he declined to stand in the way of another round of deficit-creating tax cuts.
 But wait -- it gets worse.
 You see, although the rest of the government is running huge deficits -- and never did run much of a surplus -- the Social Security system is currently taking in much more money than it spends. Thanks to those surpluses, the program is fully financed at least through 2042. The cost of securing the program's future for many decades after that would be modest -- a small fraction of the revenue that will be lost if the Bush tax cuts are made permanent.
 And the reason Social Security is in fairly good shape is that during the 1980's the Greenspan commission persuaded Congress to increase the payroll tax, which supports the program.
 The payroll tax is regressive: it falls much more heavily on middle- and lower-income families than it does on the rich. In fact, according to Congressional Budget Office estimates, families near the middle of the income distribution pay almost twice as much in payroll taxes as in income taxes. Yet people were willing to accept a regressive tax increase to sustain Social Security.
 Now the joke's on them. Mr. Greenspan pushed through an increase in taxes on working Americans, generating a Social Security surplus. Then he used that surplus to argue for tax cuts that deliver very little relief to most people, but are worth a lot to those making more than $300,000 a year. And now that those tax cuts have contributed to a soaring deficit, he wants to cut Social Security benefits. 
 The point, of course, is that if anyone had tried to sell this package honestly -- ''Let's raise taxes and cut benefits for working families so we can give big tax cuts to the rich!'' -- voters would have been outraged. So the class warriors of the right engaged in bait-and-switch.
 There are three lessons in this tale.
 First, ''starving the beast'' is no longer a hypothetical scenario -- it's happening as we speak. For decades, conservatives have sought tax cuts, not because they're affordable, but because they aren't. Tax cuts lead to budget deficits, and deficits offer an excuse to squeeze government spending.
 Second, squeezing spending doesn't mean cutting back on wasteful programs nobody wants. Social Security and Medicare are the targets because that's where the money is. We might add that ideologues on the right have never given up on their hope of doing away with Social Security altogether. If Mr. Bush wins in November, we can be sure that they will move forward on privatization -- the creation of personal retirement accounts. These will be sold as a way to ''save'' Social Security (from a nonexistent crisis), but will, in fact, undermine its finances. And that, of course, is the point.
 Finally, the right-wing corruption of our government system -- the partisan takeover of institutions that are supposed to be nonpolitical -- continues, and even extends to the Federal Reserve.
 The Bush White House has made it clear that it will destroy the careers of scientists, budget experts, intelligence operatives and even military officers who don't toe the line. But Mr. Greenspan should have been immune to such pressures, and he should have understood that the peculiarity of his position -- as an unelected official who wields immense power -- carries with it an obligation to stand above the fray. By using his office to promote a partisan agenda, he has betrayed his institution, and the nation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); FAMILY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CORPORATE TAX (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%) United States Economy; Taxation; Social Security (US)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



35 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Fearing That a Gap Will Become a Chasm

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
When Alan Greenspan urged Congress last week to cut future benefits in Social Security and Medicare, sending elected officials to the barricades, he was if anything understating the magnitude of the problems ahead. Today's budget deficits are measured in the hundreds of billions, but the looming shortfalls for the two retirement programs are projected to be in the tens of trillions of dollars.
 The Bush administration has estimated that the gap between promises under current law and the revenues expected will total $18 trillion over the next 75 years. But an internal study in 2002 by the Treasury Department, looking much further ahead, concluded that the gap was actually $44 trillion -- and would climb each year that nothing was done.
 Indeed, the numbers are so big and extend so far into the future that they border on the surreal. Analysts in both Congress and the administration warn that the flood of retiring baby boomers will cause federal spending on old-age benefits to eventually consume as much of the nation's economy as the entire federal budget does now. And while the problems would be acute even if today's federal budget were balanced, the budget deficits that seem likely for the rest of the decade make matters worse. That is because the government is borrowing more than $200 billion a year from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds to finance its operating deficits. 
 In theory, the two giant trust funds are accumulating huge surpluses that can be used to pay for benefits when the baby boomers retire and the systems start taking in less than they are paying out. In practice, those surpluses are being spent, and the government will probably have to borrow enormous sums to meet its obligations to retirees.
 ''It is time to start telling people the truth,'' said Laurence Kotlikoff, a professor of economics at Boston University and a longtime analyst of the issue. ''Suggesting that some minor adjustments to Social Security will solve the problem is doing a disservice.''
 Mr. Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, provoked a political tempest when he told members of the House Budget Committee last week that Congress needed to trim future Social Security and Medicare benefits to head off a fiscal calamity in decades to come.
 Mr. Greenspan proposed adjustments in how the government increases benefits to keep up with inflation and suggested pushing back retirement ages to better reflect increased life expectancy. 
 Democrats immediately attacked the proposed cuts, saying they would be unnecessary if President Bush had not been running up large annual budget deficits just before millions of baby boomers reach retirement age.
 ''Cutting Social Security benefits is not the way to rein in the irresponsible Bush budget deficit,'' chided Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader.
 President Bush and Republican lawmakers distanced themselves as well, saying that much of the problem could be averted by setting up private savings accounts. 
 But as precarious and uncertain as long-range forecasts are, most experts agree that the combined challenges of Social Security and Medicare are too big to be addressed without politically painful remedies.
 The number of retirees is expected to soar from about 40 million today to more than 76 million by 2030, which means that fewer dollars will be coming in from payroll taxes and many more dollars will be going out in retirement and medical benefits. 
 The oldest baby boomers turn 65 in 2011, and by one estimate a husband and wife who retire that year are likely to collect $700,000 in benefits before they die. 
 Trustees of the Medicare and Social Security funds predict that the two programs will run surpluses of more than $200 billion a year for at least the next decade. But the Medicare trust fund will start running deficits in 2013 and run out of money by 2026. Starting in 2018, the Social Security System starts paying out more than it takes in and will have to dip into its trust fund. By 2044, the trust fund will be exhausted. 
 Most experts say the problems of Social Security are much smaller and more predictable than those of Medicare, because retirement formulas are fairly simple and the cost of benefits depends primarily on demographic trends that are quite predictable.
 But Medicare's condition is more ominous, because medical costs have been rising much faster than the overall rate of inflation and the demand for health care is expected to soar as the baby boomers retire.
 The Bush administration estimated last year that Medicare's obligations would be more than $10 trillion over the next 75 years. But that was before President Bush signed the law that will add prescription drug benefits to Medicare -- which the administration now predicts will cost $540 billion over the next 10 years. The costs would climb rapidly after that, as the number of elderly people soars. The Congressional Budget Office has predicted that the new program could cost as much as $2 trillion in its second decade.
 Mr. Bush and many administration officials contend that much of Social Security's problems could be solved by letting people divert some of their payroll contributions to private investment accounts they might manage for themselves.
 But some experts say that the government would have to borrow as much as $1 trillion over the next several decades to make up for the lost revenues and pay retirees benefits earned under the old system.
 And the Congressional Budget Office, in a report on privatization plans last year, said none of the proposals would have much effect.
 ''Using government resources to buy stocks and bonds, without other spending and tax changes, would not automatically lead to an increase in the nation's pool of investment resources,'' the budget office concluded. ''There is no such thing as a free lunch.''
 Some experts contend that even the administration's chilling projections about the looming problems of Social Security seriously understate the problem.
 In 2002, two senior economists at the Treasury Department were asked by Paul H. O'Neill, then the Treasury secretary, to come up with a comprehensive estimate of the federal government's long-term fiscal problems. The total, calculated Kent Smetters, then a deputy assistant secretary for economic policy, and Jagadessh Gokhale, an economist on loan to the Treasury from the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, was an almost unthinkable $44 trillion. 
 That projection was swiftly disavowed by the administration. Rob Nichols, a spokesman for the Treasury Department, said the White House never intended to use the study in its official budget forecast. ''They were doing what they called an independent paper,'' he said. 
 Mr. Gokhale, now a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a policy research group in Washington, recalled matters differently. ''At some point, late in the game, it was decided that it wouldn't be in the budget,'' he said. ''In my opinion, if they had reported these numbers, they would have gotten a lot of credit.''
 Professor Kotlikoff of Boston University has devised a ''menu of pain'' to lay out different ways of bridging the gap. The choices range from an immediate increase in federal income taxes of 69 percent to an immediate cut in Social Security and Medicare benefits of 45 percent. 
 And those numbers may be too low, he said, because even the disavowed Treasury estimate for the shortfall may be too low. Adding in the new prescription drug program, he said, the imbalance is closer to $51 trillion.
 Whether one accepts the administration's forecast or that of the disavowed study, everyone agrees that the potential problems with Social Security and Medicare dwarf the short-term problems of balancing the budget.
 ''The issue is entitlements,'' said N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. ''That is a huge challenge, but it would be a challenge even if we had a balanced budget today.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Consuming Problem''Under current eligibility requirements, federal spending on entitlement programs, particularly Medicare, would grow enormously in the future.Graph tracks Social Security and Medicare in relation to spending as a percentage of the Gross Domestic Product from 1960-2050. (projected spendings from 2004 onward.)(Source by Congressional Budget Office)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); MEDICARE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGING (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Social Security (US); Medicine and Health; Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Social Security (US)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%) Federal Reserve System; Treasury Department

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); TOM DASCHLE (56%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



36 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Immigrants

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''The Americano Dream'' (column, Feb. 24): 
 Underpinning David Brooks's enlightened reading of assimilation in America is an important recognition that Mexican immigration has strengthened the social and cultural vitality and economic growth of the United States. 
 Regardless of their migratory status, law-abiding, hard-working and taxpaying Mexicans in the United States have chosen to make this their new home. The great majority go through enormous pains to assimilate while maintaining their cultural identity as a means to mitigate the segregation and racism that some of them still face here.
 Today, Mexicans and Mexican-Americans live in all corners of the United States. They participate in all walks of life; they need new opportunities, not renewed prejudices, to continue becoming an integral part of this great country.
 Mr. Brooks has set the tone for a responsible debate untainted by xenophobia or political and partisan gain.

ARTURO SARUKHAN
Consul General of Mexico
New York, Feb. 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REFUGEES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%) Immigration and Refugees; Mexican-Americans

PERSON: Arturo (Consul Gen) Sarukhan; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004



37 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7; BOOKS OF THE TIMES

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Using American Power: Definite and Opposite Views

BYLINE: By RONALD D. ASMUS. 
Ronald D. Asmus was deputy assistant secretary of state for European affairs under President Bill Clinton and is now a senior trans-Atlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States.

 BODY:

ALLIES
The U.S., Britain, Europe and the War in Iraq
By William Shawcross
261 pages. PublicAffairs. $20.

THE SORROWS OF EMPIRE
Militarism, Secrecy and the End of the Republic
By Chalmers Johnson
389 pages. Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $25.
 There was a time when books about American foreign policy identified a problem, discussed policy options and marshaled evidence for the author's recommendation. It is a sign of our increasingly polarized times that books on American foreign policy today are increasingly about the United States itself: who we are, what we stand for and the purposes for which our might is rightly or wrongly used.
 The two books under review here are both polemics, although well-written and interesting ones. One makes the case for and the other against the use of American power. The arguments being made are noteworthy; so are the authors making them. ''Allies: The U.S., Britain, Europe and the War in Iraq'' is by William Shawcross, the British author viewed for years as a kind of model progressive. He is most famous for his excoriating attack on President Richard M. Nixon's and Henry A. Kissinger's pursuit of the war in Cambodia in ''Sideshow.''
 To the horror of previous admirers and the delight of conservatives, Mr. Shawcross appears to have undergone a midlife ideological conversion and emerged a defender of the Bush administration. The basic argument in ''Allies'' is that the current United States administration is run by honorable, intelligent men perfectly justified in concluding that Saddam Hussein posed an unacceptable risk and had to be removed from power. To accomplish this noble goal the United States had to take the lead, Britain had to follow, and the opposition of countries like France and Germany simply had to be swept aside. 
 To be sure, the administration has often been unfairly demonized in much of Europe. One can sympathize with Mr. Shawcross's effort to explain why President Bush and his national security team are not as evil or stupid as some critics claim and that Tony Blair was not a fool for following them. One also didn't have to be a neoconservative to conclude that containment was a moral and strategic error that was failing, that the West eventually had to confront Mr. Hussein, and that we were probably going to have to resort to force to solve the problem he and his regime posed.
 But in justifying the war, Mr. Shawcross at times comes across as a cheerleader glossing over the home team's shortcomings. The closest he comes to criticism is in noting Washington's less than perfect postwar planning for Iraq, a classic example of British understatement if there ever was one. The old William Shawcross who wrote ''Sideshow'' was less timid. The Iraq crisis produced one of the biggest diplomatic crackups in 50 years of trans-Atlantic relations. There is a great book to be written about what went wrong and why. One wishes Mr. Shawcross had used his formidable writing and investigative skills to write it.
 Chalmers Johnson is moving in the other direction. A distinguished scholar in Japanese and Asian studies, he documented in his recent book ''Blowback'' how American support of the anti-Soviet Islamic Afghan opposition boomeranged and helped contribute to the threat we face today from Al Qaeda and others. 
 In ''The Sorrows of Empire: Militarism, Secrecy and the End of the Republic,'' Mr. Johnson has unfortunately gone over to the dark side of conspiratorial explanations of American foreign policy. The United States, he argues, has been taken over by the forces of imperialism and militarism. Since Sept. 11 the United States has become an empire run by an out-of-control Pentagon, which is putting us on a path to probable collapse and ruin not unlike that of the Soviet Union. 
 Lest you think this book is your standard anti-Bush tirade, however, Mr. Johnson argues that President Bill Clinton was an even more effective imperialist because he understood the need to impose the national will on the world indirectly via globalization.
 Early in his book Mr. Johnson recalls visiting the American military base on Okinawa in Japan, a formative experience that convinced him of the pernicious nature of the American military and its overseas presence. It is a kind of metaphor for everything that is wrong with the Pentagon and also for an American foreign policy writ large that Mr. Johnson contends is bent on global domination. A look at the table of contents and chapters devoted to subjects like the roots of militarism, imperialism, the C.I.A.'s private armies and the spoils of war provides an overview of the arguments to come. At the end (and beginning) of the day American foreign policy is driven by profits and markets.
 This book is a cry from the heart of an intelligent person who fears the basic values of our republic are in danger. It conveys a sense of impending doom rooted in a belief that the United States has entered a perpetual state of war that will drain our economy and destroy our constitutional freedoms. 
 No doubt Mr. Johnson's motives in drawing public attention to these concerns are well intended. But there is also no doubt in my mind that his analysis is deeply flawed and his judgments at times grotesque. There is one problem with books that rely on conspiracy theory to explain American foreign policy. For anyone who has served in the government and seen how our foreign policy is made, they don't pass the reality test.


GRAPHIC: Photos: William Shawcross (Photo by Paul Arminger/PublicAffairs)
 Chalmers Johnson (Photo by K. Amemiya/Henry Holt & Company) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LITERATURE (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); CONSERVATISM (65%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) Ronald D Asmus; William Shawcross; Chalmers Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CAMBODIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



38 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Former Chief Executive Of WorldCom Is Indicted
Federal prosecutors charged Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive of the telecommunications giant WorldCom, with conspiring to commit the biggest accounting fraud in the history of American business.
 The company's former chief accounting officer, Scott D. Sullivan, who was also named in the indictment, pleaded guilty and said he would cooperate with prosecutors. Legal experts say Mr. Sullivan's decision to reach a plea agreement paved the way for the indictment of Mr. Ebbers and will be crucial to the chances of convicting him. [Page A1.]

Canada Lowers Benchmark Rate
The Bank of Canada lowered its benchmark interest rate for the second time this year, underlining the pressure on the biggest trading partners of the United States to counteract the dampening effect their strong currencies are having on their domestic economic growth. In announcing the cut in its overnight rate from 2.5 percent to 2.25 percent, the Canadian central bank said additional stimulus was needed ''to support aggregate demand.'' [World Business, Section W.]

Rise in Insurance Scams Found
Federal investigators said that they had found a sharp increase in health insurance scams by unlicensed companies.[A12.]

Major Stock Indicators Decline
Stocks declined yesterday. The S.&P. 500 lost 6.86 points, or 0.59 percent, to close at 1,149.10. The Nasdaq composite index shed 18.15 points, or 0.88 percent, to 2,039.65. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 86.66 points, or 0.81 percent, to 10,591.48. The dollar had its biggest rally against the euro in a year. [C9.]

Greenspan Discusses Currency
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that neither the United States' huge trade deficit nor currency interventions by Japan and China pose a serious threat to the United States. [C4.]

Clothing Stores Set to Show Gains
After a disappointing holiday season, some of America's clothing merchants are getting ready to announce healthy sales numbers for February. [C5.]

FleetBoston to Pay $59.4 Million
FleetBoston Financial expects to pay $59.4 million to settle Securities and Exchange Commission charges of trading abuses by its New York Stock Exchange market-making unit, according to a regulatory filing. [C5.]

Ex-Director Sells Big Board Seat
Kenneth G. Langone, the former director of the New York Stock Exchange most closely associated with its former chairman, Richard A. Grasso, sold his seat on the exchange for $1.5 million. [C2.]

Barclays Withdraw Hollinger Offer
David Barclay, left, and his brother Frederick formally withdrew their offer to acquire Hollinger Inc., but people close to them said that the billionaire brothers still wanted to buy the Telegraph newspapers of London, the jewels in Conrad M. Black's media empire. [World Business, Section W.]

Stay at Home for Coffee, Ads Urge
An advertising campaign will try to persuade consumers to stay at home for their coffee rather than visit coffeehouses like Starbucks. The campaign is pitching a new kind of coffee maker that brews a cup at a time in about a minute, using coffee in prepackaged packets called pods. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C7.]

Filling an Empty Space in Houston
Chevron's decision to buy an empty 40-story office tower built for the Enron Corporation is welcome news for downtown Houston. Commercial Real Estate. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,591.48 down 86.66Nasdaq composite -- 2,039.65 down 18.1510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.05% up 0.06The euro -- $1.2219 down 0.0230The dollar -- 110.06 yen up 1.11Graph tracks the daily closing of the Canadian Dollar to the Dollar since February 16.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); INSURANCE FRAUD (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); EURO (68%); RETAILERS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (62%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); HOLLINGER INC (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (52%); DAVID BARCLAY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



39 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Canada Lowers Its Key Interest Rate

BYLINE: By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO, March 2 

 BODY:
The Bank of Canada lowered its benchmark interest rate on Tuesday for the second time this year, underlining the pressure on the biggest trading partners of the United States to counteract the dampening effect their strong currencies are having on their domestic economic growth. 
 In announcing the cut in its overnight rate from 2.5 percent to 2.25 percent, the Canadian central bank said additional stimulus was needed ''to support aggregate demand.'' 
 Much of the slowdown in Canada has been ascribed to shrinking exports, chiefly caused by a 22 percent appreciation of the Canadian dollar against the American dollar in 2003. Consumer spending has also slumped in recent months, with unexpectedly steep declines in motor vehicle sales. 
 Signaling similar concerns in Europe, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin of France and many business leaders have urged the European Central Bank to reduce its benchmark interest rate as a way of alleviating the pain to European exporters caused by the strong euro. The bank's governing council is scheduled to meet on Thursday to set the interest rate.
 In Japan, the impact of a strong yen on exports has also reinforced calls for more economic stimulus. The Bank of Japan raised the target range for commercial bank reserves in January as a way of increasing liquidity in the banking system and encouraging banks to lend more to companies and households. 
 ''We're getting some responses to the weakening of the dollar,'' said Stephen Gallagher, chief economist of Societe Generale's corporate and investment banking unit in New York. 
 Lower interest rates are intended to stimulate domestic demand through expanded borrowing. They also make a country less attractive to foreign capital, taking some pressure off an appreciating currency. A weakening currency makes exports more competitive, further bolstering economic growth.
 In the United States, the Federal Reserve has left the federal funds rate unchanged at 1 percent since the middle of last year. But Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Fed, has suggested that an increase in interest rates has become more likely as the economic recovery gathers steam.
 Expectations of interest rate cuts and other types of monetary stimulus have put a brake on the climbing European, Japanese and Canadian currencies in recent weeks. 
 The euro was trading at about $1.22 on Tuesday, down from a record $1.29 on Feb. 18. The Japanese yen has also pulled back, while the Canadian dollar, which touched 79 cents earlier this year, was trading Tuesday below 75 cents. 
 The lowering of interest rates Tuesday in Canada underscores a widening divergence in the Canadian and American economies on a number of fronts. 
 ''Normally the Canadian and U.S. economies move in sync,'' Dale Orr, managing director at the Global Insight consultant firm in Toronto, wrote in a recent report. ''After all, our industrial structures and demand conditions are so similar. Over 80 percent of Canada's trade is with the U.S.''
 Now, Mr. Gallagher at Societe Generale said, ''the U.S. economy appears to be strengthening with very little employment growth, while Canada is experiencing the mirror image of that.''
 Canada's gross domestic product grew 1.7 percent last year, adjusted for inflation, half the pace in 2002 and well below the 3.1 percent growth rate posted by the United States.
 Mr. Orr projects an even wider gap this year, with the American economy expanding by 4.8 percent, but a growth rate of just 3 percent in Canada. 
 Canadian exports have contracted for three years. According to Shooshan Danagoulian, a Canadian specialist at the IDEAglobal consultant firm in New York, ''any fluctuations in the U.S. dollar hit the Canadian economy harder than any other.''
 Different approaches to fiscal policy in the two countries have reinforced their divergent growth performances. While the United States budget deficit has ballooned over the last two years, adding stimulus to the economy, the Canadian government has said it is committed to maintaining fiscal discipline in the form of a budget surplus. 
 The Canadian jobs market has so far been significantly stronger, partly because of rising employment in government-supported sectors like health care and education. But according to Mr. Orr, this is starting to change as the Canadian economy slows. 
 Ms. Danagoulian said that while the drop in interest rates might push the Canadian dollar lower over the next few months, ''we're expecting the Canadian dollar to return to its appreciating path in the second half of the year.''
 Citing robust demand for Canadian commodity exports, Ms. Danagoulian said the Canadian currency could reach 80 cents by the end of 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''An Upward Climb''Foreign currencies have risen greatly against the dollar since the start of 2003.Graph tracks Canadian Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen in dollars since 2003.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); EURO (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (54%) Credit; Interest Rates; International Trade and World Market; Consumer Behavior; Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (91%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%) Bank of Canada

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (91%); GLE (BIT) (91%); BK (NYSE) (85%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); GERHARD SCHRODER (53%); THOMAS C GALLAGHER (50%) Bernard Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%) ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%) Canada; Canada

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



40 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Catholic School Looks for Salvation (and an Affluent Angel or Two)

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
If they sell enough cookies and used knickknacks, cash in enough box tops and find an angel with deep pockets, Ava Milliner and her friends in East Harlem hope they keep their beloved Mount Carmel/Holy Rosary School from closing.
 So far they have about $5,000 in cash and pledges. That leaves them needing only $120,000 more. By Friday. At this rate, they'll need a legion of cherubs and a boxcar of cookies and box tops.
 Parents and teachers in the neighborhood are fuming over what they consider an impossible deadline set by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, which announced in late January that it was closing the school because of plummeting enrollment and rising deficits. After protests by parents and teachers who said they were blindsided by the decision, officials relented and gave the parents a little under a month to come up with the money and a long-term plan to save the school. 
 With Catholic schools relying on tuition to cover major costs like teacher salaries, declines in enrollment can have disastrous effects. 
 The schools -- which for decades have prided themselves on educating the children of immigrants and the poor -- have been hit hard since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, after a souring economy forced many families to either transfer children to public schools or move out of the city altogether. 
 Given that all the students at Mount Carmel/Holy Rosary qualify for free lunch and their parents have a hard enough time scraping together the $2,350 yearly tuition, coming up with $125,000 this week is about as likely as all of them winning the Lotto by week's end.
 ''It was an unrealistic deadline,'' said Ms. Milliner, who graduated from the school in 1984, and whose daughter, Averi Hill, is in third grade there. ''Three and a half weeks to raise $125,000 while the school was closed for Presidents' Week? How many people do you know would raise that kind of money in that short period of time? Had we known in September, we could have done it.'' 
 This has all happened several times before. Decades ago, when the neighborhood was largely Italian, the school was packed with children, until the demographic changes of the 1970's hit. 
 ''One summer the Italian families just up and left,'' said Penelope Preutzman, a second-grade teacher who started at Mount Carmel in 1968. ''I don't know exactly why. A lot of them had summer places in Long Beach and it got easier to move there.''
 It became so much harder to keep the school afloat that by the spring of 2001, the school was among six marked for closing by the archdiocese. Parents rallied and came up with a plan to increase enrollment and find patrons, ensuring the school's viability for three years. 
 Over the last year and a half, the school formed an active Parents Committee and won several more grants to add to its offerings both in the curriculum and after school. They have installed new computers, added a library teacher, set up an accelerated reading program and added an after-school performing arts program. All of these additions, parents and teachers said, should have helped them attract students.
 ''I knew there had been a three-year plan, but we thought everything was going to be fine,'' Ms. Preutzman said. ''I thought, well, we weathered the storm and we're O.K. Then they came in with this.''
 The news arrived with little warning.
 ''Nobody called the parents to say, 'We're short on money, we might close, enrollment is down too much.' Nobody said any of that,'' said Mary-Ann Perry, president of the Federation of Catholic Teachers, which represents the 11 lay teachers on the faculty. ''The letter sent to parents said they were going to close the school. You would think at least the people had a right to have some input.''
 Instead, the parents demanded that right in a testy meeting with archdiocesan officials, in which they said they wanted to cobble together a rescue plan. It was only later, several parents and teachers said, that they were told any plan had to include $125,000 to cover the deficit. They insist they have yet to see the books in order to determine just what the money would cover.
 Dr. Catherine Hickey, the archdiocese's secretary for education, insisted that the parents and teachers had not been blindsided. She faulted them for not having done much beyond relying on a single benefactor who provided about $100,000 a year.
 ''They depended on the benefactor to fill in the gaps,'' she said. ''Somehow the vision got lost.'' 
 Parents and teachers dispute that assertion, saying they had been successful in attracting grants to pay for new programs, including a $30,000 grant they received in January for a performing and visual arts program.
 They do not deny that the school suffered a devastating blow to its enrollment this year when it lost about 60 students over the summer. The question, they said, is how a system set up to educate the poor reconciles its mission with the bottom line.
 ''It's very sad when you have a school in an area where the parish cannot support it,'' said Patricia Gabriel, vice president of the teachers' union. ''These are the very kids which they should be supporting.''
 Dr. Hickey said there was more then enough room in the six other schools serving East Harlem to absorb the 180 students from Mount Carmel/Holy Rosary. In fact, that is part of the larger problem facing the schools in the region. Enrollment in the archdiocese's 238 elementary schools has dropped to 110,000 students, with a loss of 4,000 since 2001 and the economic downturn.
 ''Even though we lost 4,000 students, our costs have not gone down,'' Dr. Hickey said. ''It's not just an archdiocesan problem. The same thing is happening in Brooklyn, Newark and the country.''
 The economy has hit the people who send their children to the East Harlem school hard, Ms. Preutzman said. She knows of families who have removed their children to save money, while others have moved out of state to find better jobs and cheaper rents.
 Those who remain are hoping to raise what they can to save the school. A flea market last week raised $320. A bake sale pulled in another $226. Fliers tacked to the entrance urge parents to save box tops redeemable for cash. Their biggest single pledge, teachers and parents said, was $2,500 from the Rao family, whose famed Italian restaurant is a few blocks away.
 ''I taught one of the Rao children, but I didn't go ask,'' Ms. Preutzman said with a smile. ''We sent a nun to ask for the donation.''
 Ms. Milliner and other parents who have watched the neighborhood say they wonder if the impending closing might be driven by rising real estate prices in the area. 
 But Dr. Hickey said there was no plan to sell the building, and added that if the school closes, the building will house another archdiocesan program.
 That is small comfort to Ms. Milliner, who plans to ask the archdiocese for a deadline extension, something she would probably never have done during her days as a student. To underscore her stubborn hope, her committee has a full schedule of fund-raising events -- from school dances to a walk-athon -- planned through June.
 ''We're still working,'' she said. ''We're still making phone calls. We're still waiting for someone to answer our prayers.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In an effort to raise money to keep Mount Carmel/Holy Rosary School open, supporters staged a flea market. But time is running out for the East Harlem school. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 The proceeds from a flea market last week barely made a dent in the $125,000 needed to keep Mount Carmel/Holy Rosary open. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (70%); LOTTERIES (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (52%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



41 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 6; HOCKEY

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Executive To Purchase Devils

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

 BODY:
Jeffrey Vanderbeek, a New Jersey native, a hockey fan and a father of two young hockey players, said yesterday that he would be leaving the executive committee at Lehman Brothers to purchase and operate the Devils.
 Vanderbeek, 46, who has been with Lehman Brothers for 20 years, has been a minority owner of the Devils since Puck Holdings, an affiliate of the disbanding YankeeNets empire, bought the team in 2000.
 Vanderbeek said he had been a Devils season-ticket holder for about 15 years. Before he moved to Warren, N.J., Vanderbeek lived in South Orange, not far from the team training complex in West Orange. 
 ''It is tremendously exciting for me,'' Vanderbeek said in a telephone interview last night. ''To be able to move to a dream job, I consider myself extremely lucky.''
 He said he planned to resign from Lehman Brothers on June 15.
 No terms of the sale were disclosed, but the deal is expected to be approved by the National Hockey League Board of Governors within a week. Vanderbeek would become the managing partner and chairman of the Devils.
 Vanderbeek has been a proponent of a $300 million, 18,000-seat arena for the Devils in downtown Newark. The Devils, who have been reported to be nearly $70 million in debt, would move into the arena in 2007.
 ''The Devils need a new arena that can provide a game-day experience that is certainly equal to the best team in the National Hockey League and certainly equal to the product that is put on the ice,'' Vanderbeek said.
 Although they are the defending Stanley Cup champions, the Devils have failed to attract large crowds. They play their home games at Continental Arena, which is outdated and hard to reach by public transit. The Devils have sold out only 4 of 34 home games this season. Their average home attendance of 14,754 is only 2 percent higher than at a similar point last season.
 They sold out 3 of 41 home games last season, all in the last six weeks of the season. Two of the games were against the archrival Rangers.
 The Devils were among 19 N.H.L. clubs that lost money last season. According to a study commissioned by the N.H.L. and released last month by Arthur Levitt, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the 30 teams in the league lost a combined $273 million.
 Vanderbeek said a downtown arena in Newark would also help the revitalization of the city, in the same way that Oriole Park at Camden Yards helped downtown Baltimore and a ballpark and an arena helped downtown Cleveland.
 ''The experience they can have in Baltimore or Cleveland with the revitalization and redevelopment of the downtown areas is something that could happen in Newark,'' he said. ''The final pieces of those two cities were their arenas. I believe this would take downtown Newark to a whole new level.''
 Vanderbeek said he expected Lou Lamoriello, the Devils' president and general manager, to remain in his job. The Devils have won the Stanley Cup three times since 1995.
 ''I believe Lou is the best executive in professional sports,'' Vanderbeek said.
 Lamoriello, in a statement released by the Devils, said: ''Jeff is a quality individual who has a passion for the game of hockey. I am excited about the opportunity of working with him.''
 Vanderbeek's son, Rem, 16, is a sophomore hockey player at Seton Hall Prep, and his daughter, Rhiannon, 8, is a member of a boys mite hockey team. Vanderbeek said he did not have any specific duties as a Devils minority owner.
 Vanderbeek will take over a team that might not even play next season. A collective bargaining agreement between the owners and the players union expires Sept. 15, and few are optimistic that an agreement can be reached by then. A lockout is possible.
 According to Forbes magazine, the Devils were worth $145 million at the beginning of the 2003-4 season, down 9 percent from a year earlier.
 Ray Chambers and Lewis Katz head Puck Holdings, which bought the Devils for $175 million four years ago.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Vanderbeek has been a minority owner of the Devils. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CITY LIFE (71%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); APPROVALS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (94%); DALLAS STARS (82%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (82%); EDMONTON OILERS (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (86%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



42 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8; ON EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: A Vital Touchstone For High Schools

BYLINE: By Michael Winerip. 
E-mail: edmike@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SUDBURY, Mass. 

 BODY:
IN 1987, Will Fitzhugh started The Concord Review, a scholarly publication that printed the best high school history research papers in America. His intent was simple: to recognize students who produced high-quality research, to show teachers and students what could be done, and to thereby raise the standard for high school writing.
 On one level, he succeeded brilliantly. In 17 years, he has published 627 student papers in 57 issues of the quarterly, tackling some of history's most challenging questions. In a 6,235-word paper, Rachel Hines of Montgomery High in Rockville, Md., asked: Did Chaim Rumkowski, the Jewish leader of Poland's Lodz ghetto, do more good or harm by cooperating with the Nazis? Aaron Einbond of Hunter High in New York City explored to what extent John Maynard Keynes's economic ideas were truly revolutionary, and to what extent they were borrowed from others. 
 Jessica Leight of Cambridge Rindge and Latin in Massachusetts wanted to know why Anne Hutchinson suffered so much more at the hands of the Puritans than her brother-in-law, the Rev. John Wheelwright, when both attacked the leadership. Jennifer Shingleton of Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., questioned whether Abigail Adams really was a feminist, or was being taken out of 18th-century context by contemporary feminist historians.
 Britta Waller of Roosevelt High in Kent, Ohio, wrote about the Ferris wheel. ''Fascinating,'' Mr. Fitzhugh says. ''The guy who invented it died brokenhearted. I tell people, the topic doesn't matter, it's the quality that matters, so a kid learns the joy of scholarship. If you learn what it means to go in depth, you also realize when you're being superficial.''
 Some of America's best-known historians -- Arthur Schlesinger Jr., David McCullough, Shelby Foote -- have praised the Review. And the published students -- who often include their Review papers with their college applications -- have prospered. Seventy-four went on to Harvard, 57 to Yale, 30 to Princeton.
 And yet for much of the time, Mr. Fitzhugh has felt like a boatman on the Lewis and Clark expedition, paddling upstream on the Mississippi and making little headway. He fears the high school research paper is on the verge of extinction, shoved aside as students prepare for the five-paragraph essays now demanded on state tests, the SAT II and soon, the SAT. ''I'm convinced the majority of high school students graduate without reading a nonfiction book cover to cover,'' he says. Mr. Fitzhugh is offended that the National Endowment for the Humanities sponsors a $5,000 history essay contest with a 1,200-word limit. ''I have kids writing brilliant 5,000-word papers, and they're not eligible,'' he says. He is saddened by a letter from the chairman of the history department at Boston Latin, that city's premier high school. ''Over the past 10 years, history teachers have largely stopped assigning the traditional term papers,'' Walter Lambert, the chairman, wrote.
 While much of the education establishment crows about how standardized testing and the SAT writing sample are raising standards, Mr. Fitzhugh is not alone in seeing a dumbing down. Ken Fox, a college counselor at Ladue Horton Watkins High in St. Louis says that in test preparation courses, his students learn to write a generic five-paragraph essay that can be modified when they take the SAT. ''They're trained to write to formula,'' he says.
 He has urged students to submit papers to the Review, and Robert Levin did -- on the emancipation proclamation that John Fremont, a Union Army commander, issued in Missouri in 1861, two years before Lincoln's took effect. ''The big thing,'' says Robert, who wrote the paper on his own time, ''is I've been living here my whole life, interested in the Civil War, and never knew there was this whole huge deal of an emancipation proclamation in Missouri.''
 ''I loved breaking free from the writing formula they teach us,'' he says. ''I think that hampers your writing.''
 Mr. Fitzhugh has been called elitist, but Bruce Gans, a professor in the Chicago community college system who teaches a course on writing research papers, says students need to begin in high school. Mr. Gans says English 101 -- which requires an eight-page paper with eight sources -- is taught at Chicago's seven community colleges and has the highest class dropout rate in the system. ''Kids are terrified of that paper,'' Mr. Gans says. ''Will Fitzhugh is fighting by himself on this. I don't know how he does it.''
 BARELY. After graduating from Harvard in 1962, Mr. Fitzhugh held several jobs, including teaching high school history nearby for 10 years. That was when he came to believe that if you asked more of students, they would respond. He started the Review with his ''last $100,000,'' a family inheritance, plus the cashed-in value of his teaching pension. ''I'm stupid,'' he says, ''I thought people would subscribe.'' After 17 years, he has 1,100 subscribers and requires a $40 fee when a paper is submitted.
 Twice he has stopped publishing when he ran out of money. Most foundations -- 145 at last count -- have turned him down. His savior has been John Abele, co-founder of Boston Scientific, a medical equipment company that has provided $185,000 a year, enabling Mr. Fitzhugh to move the Review out of his house and to hire an assistant. They have started a National History Club in hopes of broadening its constituency.
 Each year, Mr. Fitzhugh offers four $3,000 awards, the Emerson prizes, for the best Review pieces. His dream is that the Emersons will do for high school history what the Intel research awards have done for science. But he never knows if he will be financed from year to year. ''John Abele has been wonderful,'' he says, ''but he had a stroke a few years ago. Thank God he recovered, but if something happens to him, we're history, so to speak.''
 Mr. Fitzhugh lives with his wife, Sophia, a retired teacher, in the same house they bought for $43,000 in 1971. His Review salary is $36,000 -- compared with $38,000 he made his last year teaching, 1988. ''I'll be 68 in August,'' he says. ''I'd like to retire after the 70th issue. What I need is to bring someone in before I fall over, but I don't have the money. The problem is, it's not a very prestigious job.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



43 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Fear Prices Already Reflect Profit Outlook

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Shares declined yesterday, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropping for the first day in five, amid concern that prices already reflect prospects for profit growth.
 The dollar had its biggest rally against the euro in a year and surged to a four-month high against the yen, on speculation that employment growth is accelerating.
 ''The market has run up so far, so fast,'' said Eric Thorne, who helps manage $1.7 billion at Bryn Mawr Trust Company in Bryn Mawr, Pa. ''Values are scarce these days.'' 
 The S.&P. 500 lost 6.86 points, or 0.59 percent, to close at 1,149.10. According to analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial, earnings growth for companies in the index, a broad gauge of big stocks, are expected to slow to 12.9 percent this year from 18.3 percent in 2003. 
 The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index shed 18.15 points, or 0.88 percent, to close at 2,039.65. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 86.66 points, or 0.81 percent, to 10,591.48. Five issues declined for every four advancing on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume of 1.49 billion shares traded was slightly lower than the 1.50 billion on Monday.
 Basic-materials companies, including DuPont and Alcoa, led the market's decline. DuPont, the second-biggest American chemical company, lost 78 cents, closing at $44.85. Alcoa dropped 69 cents to $37.71.
 Newmont Mining, a leading gold producer, fell $1.49, to $42.26, as gold futures declined 1.6 percent, to $393 an ounce. Freeport McMoRan Copper and Gold, which rose on Monday as copper futures reached an eight-year high, fell $1.89 yesterday, closing at $42.41. The 4.3 percent drop was the steepest in the S.&P. 500.
 Among technology companies, Micron Technology gained 48 cents, to $15.83. The shares of Micron, a leading maker of memory chips for computers, were upgraded to outperform from neutral by Hans Mosesmann, an analyst at Schwab SoundView Capital Markets, who cited a rise in orders and an increase in chip prices.
 The operator of an Internet search engine, Mamma.com, jumped $6.05, or 149 percent, to $10.10, in Nasdaq small-capitalization trading. 
 The company said it had a fourth-quarter profit from continuing operations, in contrast to a loss a year earlier, as sales more than doubled. Its shares have risen almost fivefold in the last year.
 Macrovision, a maker of copyright-protection software, fell, $2.12, to $18.33. Macrovision forecast that first-quarter profit would be 13 cents to 14 cents a share, less than the 18 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.
 Investors were expected to focus on financial updates from two leading chip makers, Intel on Thursday and Texas Instruments next Monday. 
 An index of telecommunications companies registered the only advance among the S. &P. 500's 10 industry groups. A federal appeals court struck down new rules that let the states decide whether Verizon Communications and other big regional phone companies must continue to give rivals network access at low prices set by state regulators.
 Verizon climbed 76 cents, to $39.46. SBC Communications added $1.23, to $25.48. BellSouth rose $1.13, to $28.81. AT&T, which rents discounted lines from the regional Bell companies, dropped 26 cents, to $20.11.
 In the currency markets, the dollar gained about 2 percent against the euro, with the euro settling in New York at $1.2219, compared with $1.2449 on Monday. The gain was the largest in nearly a year. The dollar rose to 110.06 yen from 108.95 yen. It also improved markedly against the British pound, which settled at $1.8399, compared with $1.8674 on Monday. 
 United States Treasury notes declined on signs that job growth is accelerating, leading some to speculate that the Federal Reserve would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate by the end of September. Demand for Treasuries also fell as the dollar surged, giving foreign central banks fewer dollars with which to buy United States debt.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 15/32 to 99 20/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.05 percent from 3.99 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 4-week bills and 12-day cash management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.925
High Rate: 0.960
Coupon Yield: 0.978
Low Rate: 0.935
Median Rate: 0.955
Total applied for: $37,612,949
Accepted: $24,118,629
Noncompetitive: $44,452

The four-week bills mature April 01, 2004.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.967
Investment Rate: 1.004
High Rate: 0.980
Low Rate: 0.950
Median Rate: 0.970
Total applied for: $91,255,000
Accepted: $27,000,210
Noncompetitive: $-0-

The 12-day cash management bills mature March 15, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks yields of selected Treasury securities.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); CURRENCIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (88%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (86%); MICROPROCESSORS (85%); COMPUTER CHIPS (85%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); COPPER MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (73%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); EURO (72%); COPPER INDUSTRY (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (68%); MEMORY CHIPS (67%); CHEMICALS MFG (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: BRYN MAWR TRUST CO (83%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (66%); AMERICAN CHEMICAL CO INC (66%); INTEL CORP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); ALCOA INC (54%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (54%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%)

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (66%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); AAI (ASX) (54%); AA (NYSE) (54%); NEM (NYSE) (54%); MU (NASDAQ) (53%); TXN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (66%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (66%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (66%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (66%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (66%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (66%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (66%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (66%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (66%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (66%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (66%); SIC5169 CHEMICALS & ALLIED PRODUCTS, NEC (66%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



44 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: A Resort Says It's Been Driven To the Last One: Secession

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: KILLINGTON, Vt., March 2 

 BODY:
At the annual town meeting on Tuesday, the agenda moved quickly from item to item: elect a library trustee, discuss grants and serve the coffee and doughnuts. 
 But even before all that, the residents decided literally to move on, by seceding from Vermont and joining New Hampshire, 35 miles to the east. 
 The overwhelming voice vote will most likely prove only symbolic: Killington's secession would require approval from the legislatures of both states, and Vermont lawmakers have given every indication that it will not be taken up. But there is no denying that the issue brought out the largest crowd for a town hall meeting in years, attended by perhaps 300 of this ski resort's 1,100 people. 
 The vote was the latest salvo in a tax battle that has endured since 1997. The law that sparked it all, Act 60, transformed the state's school financing system from one administered through local collection of property taxes to one based on a state tax pool. As a result, the residents of property-rich towns like Killington began paying significantly higher taxes, in effect subsidizing less-affluent towns.
 Killington challenged the law in court, and a judge ruled in its favor in 2002. But the state appealed the decision, which the Vermont Supreme Court overturned last year.
 Incensed local officials then began exploring ''the last resort,'' in the words of Town Manager David Lewis: making Killington an island within Vermont by ''moving'' it across the Connecticut River to New Hampshire. Mr. Lewis and the three town selectmen plunked down $10,000 of the town's $4.5 million budget for an economic analysis.
 Killington now sends $20 million a year to the state in tax revenue -- property, sales, room, meal and alcohol -- and receives back only about $2 million in education and other aid. The analysis showed that by moving to New Hampshire, it would halve its state payments and would get a little more back.
 The mountain itself at Killington Ski Resort is owned by the State of Vermont, so it of course would not become part of the secession. But the taxes saved by the restaurants, inns and other businesses that serve as the town's economic engine would be well worth the move, Killington officials say.
 ''We're not against helping out and paying our fair share,'' said one town selectman, Walter Findeisen. ''What we're against is having it socked to us. The best thing to do is to leave the state. The state doesn't want us.''
 Most voters at Tuesday's meeting agreed, stepping up to microphones and likening their fight to that waged by the colonists against the British, save for the phalanx of television cameras and reporters gathered at the front of the Sherburne Elementary School gymnasium.
 ''Ultimately it's the right thing to do, because we have been failed by the legislative, we have been failed by the judicial, and we have been failed by the executive,'' said Robert B. Chernin, a consultant who moved here three years ago from Chester, N.J. ''The only thing left, pure and simple, is a tax revolt, and this is the only way legally we know how to do it.''
 A handful of residents, many of them lifelong Vermonters, voted against the proposal, some citing state pride.
 ''I was born and raised a Vermonter; it's in my heart and in my soul,'' said Julie Thomas, 38, a bank teller. ''I don't want to leave. I pay high taxes, too, but I don't want to move.''
 To some extent, a historical factor is also at play. Killington was originally chartered, in 1761, as part of New Hampshire, before becoming part of the independent Republic of Vermont in 1777. (Vermont did not become a state until 1791.)
 Further, historians say Killington's decision underscores an independent streak that runs through the state. In 1991, the Vermont Statehood Bicentennial Commission sponsored six debates on state secession from the Union; at one, in Bennington, residents voted by 2 to 1 to leave.
 Thomas Naylor, professor emeritus of economics at Duke University and author of ''The Vermont Manifesto,'' a treatise on why Vermont should return to its status as an independent republic, believes in Killington's right to secede.
 ''Few people in the United States realize that hands down, Vermont is the most radical state in the Union both in terms of town meetings and direct democracy,'' Professor Naylor said. ''The secession movement is nothing new.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: If the people of Killington, Vt., have their way, the town will someday be otherwise identified, as on this bumper sticker yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press)Map of Vermont highlighting the location of Killington: Killington wants to ''move'' across the Connecticut River. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); RESORTS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); LIBRARIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); SKIING (74%); BUDGETS (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); JUDGES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); APPEALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); RESTAURANTS (62%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (53%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Law and Legislation; Education and Schools; Finances; History; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: VERMONT SUPREME COURT (55%)

PERSON: Katie Zezima

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (98%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%) Vermont; New Hampshire; Killington (Vt)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



45 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: House G.O.P. to Drop Idea of Penalty for Steep Rises in Tuition

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
House Republicans plan to announce today that they are withdrawing legislation that would have imposed financial penalties on colleges and universities that raised tuition too sharply. 
 Representative Howard P. McKeon, the California Republican who proposed the sanctions as a way to curb the rise in college costs, said they were no longer necessary because universities seemed to have gotten the message and were taking steps of their own.
 ''More and more institutions today are announcing voluntary steps to avoid excessive tuition hikes that hurt parents and students,'' Mr. McKeon said. ''If this trend continues, it is a victory for low- and middle-income students.'' 
 Though its chances for passage were always questionable, Mr. McKeon's legislation has been an ever-present part of the debate over the affordability of college since he put forward the idea a year ago.
 It has stood out as the most punitive of the federal proposals to contain sharp increases in college prices and has served as the focal point for intense lobbying by universities, which argued that the legislation would only end up hurting those it was trying to help, namely the students. 
 Mr. McKeon is not dropping his legislation entirely.
 He still wants to create a government watch list of public and private universities that raise tuition and fees by more than twice the rate of inflation for three years in a row. Under that rubric, more than 1,300 colleges and universities would be placed on the list today, a full 24 percent of the nation's postsecondary institutions, according to an analysis by the American Council on Education. 
 But the most widely contested piece of the legislation will be shed. Originally, if the offending institutions did not curb costs within a few years, the bill would have stripped them of their eligibility for millions of dollars in federal grants and programs, like work study, that are ultimately used to support students. 
 Under the revised measure, universities would merely be required to submit a detailed account of their costs and a plan for reducing them, preserving the public disclosure parts of the legislation but doing away with the threat of penalties. 
 ''It is certainly welcome news,'' said Constantine W. Curris, president of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. ''It's been a matter of concern, especially in the public sector, because the majority of public institutions don't determine their own tuition.'' 
 Mr. McKeon, who is partly responsible for overseeing the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, warned he would restore the bill's penalties if universities appeared to slack off in their efforts to curb costs. But for now, he said, institutions across the nation are making earnest efforts toward that end. 
 Amid the national debate over the price of college, several universities have announced plans to increase financial aid, freeze tuition or remove the burden of loans for some students.
 This week, Harvard said it would no longer ask for any financial contribution from parents earning less than $40,000 a year and would scale back the amount it expected from those earning less than $60,000. 
 Last month, George Washington University said it would freeze tuition so incoming freshmen would pay the same amount all four years, a policy that was passed into law for public university students in Illinois last July. 
 In a different approach, the University of Virginia said last month that its low-income students would no longer be expected to take out loans to cover the cost of their education but would instead be given grants by the university. In doing so, the university followed a similar announcement last October by the University of North Carolina. 
 Such measures provided Mr. McKeon with what he called ''evidence that some colleges and universities are getting the message.''
 Since proposing the penalties last March, Mr. McKeon has frequently acknowledged that he was less interested in making law than his point about college costs.
 Indeed, he brandished the threat of legislation for seven months before actually introducing a bill, and even then he said he would prefer to see universities rein in tuition on their own. 
 ''I want to raise the visibility of the issue because we just can't keep going on as we are,'' he said last year, months before introducing his bill. ''Let's up the ante and get the stakes a little higher.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (93%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TRENDS (77%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (55%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Law and Legislation; Tuition ; Fines (Penalties); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: BUCK MCKEON (92%) Howard P (Rep) Mckeon; Greg Winter

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



46 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: NEWS ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Sprinter Faces a Marathon

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
In just six weeks, John Kerry has made short work of every dogged Democratic rival, rebounding from political near-death to vibrant life as his party's all-but-official nominee. But as Ronald Reagan delighted in reminding the Democrats 20 years ago when he became the last Republican president elected to a second term: ''You ain't seen nothin' yet.''
 Propelled by the twin tides of electability and inevitability since his upset victory in the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 19, Mr. Kerry now stands atop a Democratic Party that is energized and unified in its opposition to President Bush, who is no better than tied with or trailing Mr. Kerry in the latest polls. The process devised by Democratic officials to produce an early nominee has worked as intended.
 But the real test is just beginning. 
 Tomorrow, the Bush campaign will begin spending the first of its tens of millions of dollars on campaign advertising aimed at shaping the race: first celebrating Mr. Bush, then reintroducing Mr. Kerry, the Massachusetts senator, to the nation in the most unflattering light possible. Mr. Kerry has been tested, but perhaps not as much as he would have been in a longer primary season. His appeal to independents and Republicans remains largely unproved. And he now faces an eight-month general election campaign against a president with all the powers of incumbency at his command. 
 ''It's not rocket science,'' said John Weaver, who learned what it was like to run against Mr. Bush as the political director for Senator John McCain's presidential campaign four years ago. ''There'll now be a 'definition race' and the Bush-Cheney forces will try to define Kerry as quickly and negatively as possible in the coming months, and his challenge is to not only fight that off, at least to a draw, but at the same time in doing so, define himself.''
 In war and politics, Mr. Kerry has proved himself in past battles and he professed to be ready for the fray. ''Before us lie long months of effort and of challenge and we understand that,'' he said in victory last night. ''We have no illusions about the Republican attack machine and what our opponents have done in the past and what they may try to do in the future. But I know that together we are equal to this task. I am a fighter.''
 Still, Mr. Kerry's last opponent, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, ran a campaign that was almost entirely upbeat, with only the mildest kind of attacks in recent days, yet he seemed to rankle Mr. Kerry toward the end.
 By contrast, Mr. Bush has shown himself to be a sharp, disciplined, resourceful political infighter when his back is against the wall. ''No more Mr. Nice Guy'' may now be the phrase of the day.
 Already, the Kerry and Bush camps are exchanging daily dueling e-mail messages. Yesterday, the Bush campaign's morning ''Kerry Line'' celebrated the first anniversary of the Department of Homeland Security by attacking Mr. Kerry for joining Senate Democrats in initially resisting Mr. Bush's efforts to alter Civil Service rules in the proposed department. The Kerry campaign countered with a statement from former Senator Max Cleland of Georgia, who was defeated for re-election in the bitter aftermath of wrangling over the issue, saying: ''George Bush is all hat and no cattle on the issue of homeland security.''
 Last night, Mr. Kerry attacked Mr. Bush as ''the great divider'' for proposing to amend the Constitution to ban gay marriage. 
 ''We say that he has no right to misuse the most precious document in our history in an effort to divide this nation and distract us from our goals,'' Mr. Kerry said in his most pointed language on the subject by far. ''We resoundingly reject the politics of fear and distortion.''
 Earlier, Mr. Kerry left the campaign trail and returned to the Senate to cast an unshrinking vote in favor of extending a 10-year ban on assault weapons that expires this year, and to accuse Mr. Bush of ''walking away'' from his 2000 campaign pledge to support its extension.
 He may be from Massachusetts, Mr. Kerry seemed to be all but shouting, but Michael S. Dukakis he is not.
 With his main rivals now finished, Mr. Kerry can devote himself to raising the money he badly needs to compete with Mr. Bush. Because he chose, like Mr. Bush, not to accept matching federal campaign money, he will not be bound by spending or contribution limits. Independent advocacy groups and the Democratic Party are also prepared to spend millions of dollars against Mr. Bush.
 For now, the Democrats' spirited primary contest and Mr. Kerry's almost weekly victories have put the Republicans on the defensive. Vice President Dick Cheney, who has emerged in some recent polls as a potential drag on his party's ticket and who rarely gives interviews, appeared yesterday on all three cable news networks, his comments interspersed with coverage of Mr. Kerry's big day.
 Today and tomorrow, Mr. Bush will be in California, scene of the biggest delegate prize yesterday. He will be raising more money toward his goal of $175 million -- hardly the preferred springtime posture of a ''war president,'' as he recently described himself.
 But Mr. Kerry can no longer count on the automatic platform provided by contested primaries to keep his name in the headlines. Mr. Bush now has a single, big target in Mr. Kerry and can focus on him in the long months leading to the Democratic convention in Boston in July. 
 ''I don't think the frame has been set for this election at all,'' said Don Sipple, a veteran Republican consultant who worked for Bob Dole in his 1996 presidential campaign. ''A natural agenda is in the minds of the electorate, and I think the first one who kind of connects with that will benefit from it.
 ''The economy is going to be an issue, and so is the war,'' Mr. Sipple continued. ''The picture's murky on both peace and prosperity, which suggests you're going into a very tight contest with a lot of twists and turns. I think the administration will have a period of a good three weeks or so and the data will show it, and then the Democrats will, and it'll all be within the margin.''
 For all Mr. Kerry's early success, his biggest vulnerability may be that so few voters really know him. In his two decades in the Senate, his reserved personality has not always worn well with colleagues and party leaders. He now faces scrutiny, second-guessing and investigations that might make the primaries look like a picnic. 
 Three days before the 10 Democratic contests of Super Tuesday, a national poll by the National Annenberg Election Survey at the University of Pennsylvania found that just over a third of registered voters who said they intended to participate believed they had learned enough about the candidates to make an informed choice. A like percentage expressed a similar view in the 21 states that have yet to vote.
 Starting now, Mr. Kerry must help fill in the blanks. Mr. Bush will be only too ready to do so. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Finances; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%) John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; Todd S Purdum; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



47 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE OVERVIEW

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: KERRY IN BIG VICTORIES ACROSS NATION; EDWARDS WILL QUIT RACE, AN AIDE SAYS

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry blazed to victories in Democratic primaries from New York to California yesterday, effectively capturing his party's presidential nomination and prompting his main rival, Senator John Edwards, to move to end his campaign.
 Mr. Kerry defeated Mr. Edwards in almost every state -- including Ohio and Georgia, where Mr. Edwards had been looking for a victory to keep his candidacy alive -- in what was shaping up as a nationwide romp. Faced with a staggering night of losses, Mr. Edwards flew home to Raleigh, N.C., last night to withdraw from the race today, an aide said.
 President Bush called Mr. Kerry, of Massachusetts, to congratulate him on his victories. ''I said, 'I hope we have a great debate about the issues before the country,' '' Mr. Kerry said, recounting his conversation with the president. 
 Scott Stanzel, a Bush campaign spokesman, said Mr. Bush told Mr. Kerry that he had won the nomination against a tough field and that he was looking forward to a spirited race.
 Mr. Kerry's hope for a 10-state sweep was frustrated not by Mr. Edwards but by Howard Dean, his onetime nemesis, who finally won his first primary, in Vermont, his home state, two weeks after he withdrew from the race.
 Mr. Edwards and Mr. Kerry offered warm words about each other in their speeches last night, just two days after their decidedly unfriendly debate in New York.
 ''John Edwards brings a compelling voice to our party, great eloquence to the cause of working men and women all across our nation and great promise for leadership for the years to come,'' Mr. Kerry said of Mr. Edwards, whom many Democrats have pushed as a potential running mate for Mr. Kerry.
 But most of all, Mr. Kerry offered a vigorous attack on the White House, previewing what officials in both parties said would be an extraordinarily rough general election campaign.
 ''I am a fighter,'' he proclaimed, and proceeded to use the platform of his nationally televised remarks to attack Mr. Bush for proposing a constitutional amendment to outlaw same-sex marriages.
 ''George Bush, who promised to become a uniter, has become the great divider,'' he said in Washington, adding: ''He proposed to amend the Constitution of the United States for political purposes, and we say that he has no right to misuse the most precious document in our history in an effort to divide this nation and distract us from our goals. We resoundingly reject the politics of fear and distortion.''
 Mr. Edwards, smiling but appearing weary, addressed supporters at a rally in Georgia, a state chosen in the hope that he could give a victory speech. Instead, Mr. Edwards delivered an address that sounded a farewell note for his campaign.
 ''We have been the little engine that could, and I am proud of what we've done together, you and I,'' he said.
 He praised Mr. Kerry as ''an extraordinary advocate for causes that all of us believe in: more jobs, better health care, a cleaner environment, a safer world.''
 ''These are the causes of our party,'' he said. ''These are the causes of our country and these are the causes we will prevail on come November, you and I together.''
 With yesterday's balloting, 29 states and the District of Columbia have now passed judgment on the Democratic field. And the party's leaders appear to have accomplished precisely what they were looking for in setting up this calendar: A near-consensus candidate, chosen early and with minimal bloodshed.
 Mr. Kerry has now claimed the nomination earlier than any other nonincumbent Democratic presidential candidate in more than 40 years, with the notable exception of Al Gore in 2000.
 Advisers to Mr. Kerry sought to avoid appearing overly optimistic, even as they rejoiced in these latest wins. They said Mr. Kerry would campaign through Texas, Mississippi, Louisiana and Florida, the four states where there will be primary voting on March 9.
 ''We only have one-third of the delegates we need,'' said Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Kerry's spokesman. ''The primaries give voters across the country a chance to get to know John Kerry.''
 Still, the Kerry campaign was girding for a sea change in the nature of the campaign, moving from the relatively small field of a Democratic primary -- and a relatively mild opponent, in Mr. Edwards -- to a general election campaign against Mr. Bush, whose aides have promised a fierce campaign. Mr. Kerry moved quickly to set out the themes of his campaign, incorporating lines used by Dr. Dean and Mr. Edwards as he turned full force to the White House.
 ''Tonight the message could not be clearer. All across our country, change is coming to America,'' he said, adding: ''We have no illusions about the Republican attack machine and what our opponents have done in the past and what they may try to do in the future. But I know that together, we are equal to this task.''
 The White House appears to be bracing for a strong Democratic threat. Aides to Mr. Bush said he would broadcast his first television advertisements on Thursday night, as he begins spending about $120 million he has raised precisely for this moment. His campaign surrogates appeared on television news programs last night, portraying Mr. Kerry as, among other things, an advocate of tax increases and big government.
 It was the year's biggest night of voting for Democrats, with 1,151 delegates being allocated. Going into last night, Mr. Kerry had 562 of the 2,162 delegates needed to win the nomination, compared with 204 for Mr. Edwards.
 Delegates in Democratic primaries are allocated based on the percentage of votes each candidate wins, as opposed to the winner-take-all system used by the Republican Party. As a result, Mr. Edwards was under pressure to not only win a number of big states, but win them by substantial margins in order to make up the delegate differences.
 That did not come close to happening.
 Mr. Kerry posted lopsided victories in New York and California, the two states with the highest number of delegates at stake.
 He scored a double-digit victory over Mr. Edwards in Ohio, where Mr. Edwards had campaigned heavily in the calculation that his attacks on Mr. Kerry for voting for the North American Free Trade Agreement would lift him to victory.
 He also swamped Mr. Edwards in Maryland, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Minnesota and, to no one's surprise, Massachusetts.
 The other two candidates, the Rev. Al Sharpton of New York and Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, posted mostly single-digit showings in the voting. Mr. Sharpton and Mr. Kucinich were both on the ballots in their home states; both suffered single-digit showings there as well.
 Mr. Edwards's frustration with the turn of events in this campaign was apparent throughout the day.
 He visited a polling place in Atlanta in the early morning for a few minutes, grinning and greeting a smattering of voters and supporters. But he did not respond to questions shouted at him and had not made appearances on morning talk shows, as he has done in the past.
 Both Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards spent part of yesterday in Washington, voting on gun regulation legislation. Before flying to Washington from Georgia, Mr. Kerry stopped by a trucking company depot in Atlanta where he shook hands, and zipped around in a forklift.
 ''I think we can do a better job on the economy,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''We can fight for an even playing field, and we can sure fight to create more jobs.''
 Mr. Kerry's huge victories are attributable to voters' anxieties about their own economic futures and, once again, an intense desire to defeat Mr. Bush, according to the polls of voters that were conducted in each state by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for a pool of five television networks and The Associated Press.
 In Atlanta, Kyle Cole, 43, said he was voting for Mr. Kerry because ''he's got experience.''
 ''We live in some dangerous times,'' Mr. Cole said. ''I really like Edwards, but we need someone who knows how Congress works. And the main thing is to get Bush out.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in some copies yesterday about John Kerry's celebration of his primary victories with his family misstated the given name of the stepson shown. He was Christopher Heinz, not Alexander. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts and his wife, Teresa, flanked by staff aides last night in Washington. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A1)
Senator John Edwards addressed supporters last night in Atlanta on what aides said was his final day as a candidate for the presidency. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
John Kerry in Washington last night with, from left, his daughters Alexandra and Vanessa
his stepson, Alexander Heinz
 and his wife, Teresa. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A16)Chart: ''The Results''As of 1:50 a.m. E.S.T.CaliforniaDelegates at stake: 370Precincts reporting: 9,847 of 21,796 -- 45%Howard Dean: 67,435 -- 5%John Edwards: 283,439 -- 19%John Kerry: 961,453 -- 65%Dennis J. Kucinich: 63,896 -- 4%Al Sharpton: 22,974 -- 2%ConnecticutDelegates at stake: 49Precincts reporting: 710 of 716 -- 99%Howard Dean: 5,098 -- 4%John Edwards: 30,396 -- 24%John Kerry: 74,137 -- 58%Dennis J. Kucinich: 4,083 -- 3%Al Sharpton: 3,115 -- 2%GeorgiaDelegates at stake: 86Precincts reporting: 3,120 of 3,130 -- 99%Howard Dean: 11,119 -- 2%John Edwards: 256,708 -- 42%John Kerry: 288,332 -- 46%Dennis J. Kucinich: 7,615 -- 1%Al Sharpton: 38,472 -- 6%MarylandDelegates at stake: 69Precincts reporting: 1,744 of 1,779 -- 98%Howard Dean: 11,483 -- 3%John Edwards: 116,669 -- 26%John Kerry: 268,778 -- 60%Dennis J. Kucinich: 8,131 -- 2%Al Sharpton: 20,076 -- 4%MassachusettsDelegates at stake: 93Precincts reporting: 2,063 of 2,166Howard Dean: 16,090 -- 3%John Edwards: 104,267 -- 18%John Kerry: 424,487 -- 72%Dennis J. Kucinich: 23,454 -- 4%Al Sharpton: 5,829 -- 1%MinnesotaDelegates at stake: 72Precincts reporting: 3,579 of 4,100 -- 87%Howard Dean: 982 -- 2%John Edwards: 13,610 -- 27%John Kerry: 25,645 -- 51%Dennis J. Kucinich: 8,425 -- 17%Al Sharpton: 303 -- 1%New YorkDelegates at stake: 236Precincts reporting: 13,614 -- of 13,817 -- 99%Howard Dean: 18,544 -- 3%John Edwards: 133,507 -- 20%John Kerry: 400,789 -- 60%Dennis J. Kucinich: 35,734 -- 5%Al Sharpton: 54,368 -- 8%OhioDelegates at stake: 140Precincts reporting: 11,507 of 11,507 -- 100%Howard Dean: 29,821 -- 3%John Edwards: 403,909 -- 34%John Kerry: 613,028 -- 52%Dennis J. Kucinich: 107,232 -- 9%Al Sharpton: Not on ballot.Rhode IslandDelegates at stake: 21Precincts reporting: 266 of 267 -- 99%Howard Dean: 1,315 -- 4%John Edwards: 6,359 -- 19%John Kerry: 24,073 -- 71%Dennis J. Kucinich: 1,028 -- 3%Al Sharpton: Not on ballot.VermontDelegates at stake: 15Precincts reporting: 246 of 260 -- 99%Howard Dean: 43,005 -- 58%John Edwards: Not on ballot.John Kerry: 25,065 -- 34%Dennis J. Kucinich: 3,316 -- 4%Al Sharpton: Not on ballot.(Source by The Associated Press)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); MARRIAGE (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); WOMEN WORKERS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Results; Primaries; Presidential Election of 2004; Marriages; Homosexuality; Election Issues; Constitutional Amendments

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (97%); JOHN KERRY (97%); DENNIS KUCINICH (90%); AL SHARPTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Adam Nagourney; John (Sen) Kerry; Howard (Dr) Dean; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (72%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; California; Georgia; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



48 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Plays Down 2 Threats to U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said on Tuesday that neither the huge United States trade deficit nor large currency interventions by Japan and China pose a serious threat to the United States.
 Mr. Greenspan also sent a small shiver through financial markets by saying that the central bank will eventually have to raise short-term interest rates from their current low levels. 
 Mr. Greenspan's remarks about interest rates were, however, similar to those he made before Congress in February, when he also said the Fed could be ''patient'' about raising rates because inflation is so low.
 In an unusually detailed speech to the Economic Club of New York, Mr. Greenspan noted that Asian governments, led by Japan and China, have been buying Treasury securities at an ''extraordinary'' pace for two years in their attempt to keep their own currencies from rising too far against the dollar.
 The Japanese government has acquired an ''awesome'' volume of foreign exchange reserves, totaling $650 billion, and China's reserves have shot up to $420 billion, he said. But while Mr. Greenspan said those interventions could lead to an overheating of China's economy, he suggested that the risks to the United States economy were relatively low.
 ''Some have argued that purchases of U.S. Treasuries by Asian officials are holding down interest rates on these instruments, and therefore that U.S. interest rates are likely to rise as intervention by Asian monetary authorities slows,'' Mr. Greenspan said. 
 But, he continued, the net effect of a shift by Asian governments ''would likely be small'' because the overall global market for dollar-denominated securities is huge in comparison with the holdings of Asian governments.
 Mr. Greenspan appeared intent on assuaging concerns in some quarters that the United States is becoming too indebted to the rest of the world or that the dollar might be poised for a precipitous decline in value.
 As such, his comments on Tuesday fit into a broader pattern of trying to soothe investors on issues like the rising level of American household debt and rising federal budget deficits.
 Mr. Greenspan said the increasing willingness of people around the world to invest outside their home countries had enabled the United States to borrow much more money than it could have comfortably managed several decades ago.
 And he said that the economy of the United States is flexible enough that a decline in the value of the dollar could lead to a fairly smooth reduction in the nation's trade deficits. A weaker dollar makes American exports cheaper in foreign markets and imports more expensive.
 Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that prices of European imports have climbed surprisingly little in response to a falling dollar, but he attributed that to currency-hedging tactics by European companies that will eventually become too expensive to sustain.
 Mr. Greenspan also repeated a warning he made on Monday that China could suffer serious disruptions if the government suddenly allowed its currency, the yuan, to float freely against the dollar.
 ''No one truly knows whether easing or ending capital controls would lessen pressure on the currency,'' Mr. Greenspan said, referring to the Chinese yuan. ''Many in China, however, fear that an immediate ending of controls could induce capital outflows large enough to destabilize the nation's improving, but still fragile, banking system.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); BONDS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); TRENDS (68%); IMPORT PRICES (60%); PERSONAL DEBT (60%) United States Economy; International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; Finances; United States Economy; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Foreign Investments

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Economic Club of New York

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (93%) Japan; China

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



49 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: The Next Best Thing to Being President

BYLINE: By Stephen Gillers. 
Stephen Gillers is a professor of law at New York University.

 BODY:
With John Edwards's decision to quit the race, expected to be announced officially today, John Kerry's nomination as the Democratic candidate for president is secure. Speculation about his choice for vice president can now begin in earnest.
 Mr. Edwards himself is an obvious choice: a skilled campaigner, he would also attract Southern voters. Other possibilities include Govs. Evan Bayh of Indiana and Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who have both regional appeal and executive experience, and dark-horse candidates like former Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia. 
 Amid this conjecture, however, one name is conspicuously absent: Bill Clinton.
 Mr. Clinton's strengths would compensate for Mr. Kerry's weaknesses almost perfectly. Not only is Mr. Clinton the most talented campaigner of his generation, but he is also a Southerner -- and since 1948, when Harry S. Truman chose Senator Alben Barkley of Kentucky as his running mate, every successful Democratic ticket has included a Southern politician.
 Besides, people might even pay to watch Bill Clinton debate Dick Cheney. So why not?
 The first objection, the constitutional one, can be disposed of easily. The Constitution does not prevent Mr. Clinton from running for vice president. The 22nd Amendment, which became effective in 1951, begins: ''No person shall be elected to the office of the president more than twice.''
 No problem. Bill Clinton would be running for vice president, not president. Scholars and judges can debate how loosely constitutional language should be interpreted, but one need not be a strict constructionist to find this language clear beyond dispute. Bill Clinton cannot be elected president, but nothing stops him from being elected vice president.
 True, if Mr. Clinton were vice president he would be in line for the presidency. But Mr. Clinton would succeed Mr. Kerry not by election, which the amendment forbids, but through Article II, Section 1 of the Constitution, which provides that if a president dies, resigns or is removed from office, his powers ''shall devolve on the vice president.'' The 22nd Amendment would not prevent this succession.
 So much for the constitutional obstacles. The political ones may be more formidable. They can be summarized in two questions: would Mr. Clinton want the job; and would Mr. Kerry want him to take it? We won't know until we ask, of course. But before asking, we might cite some reasons for both men to consider a Kerry-Clinton ticket seriously.
 For Mr. Clinton, the appeal of the vice presidency is both political and personal. First, he could help his party win. Yes, Mr. Clinton remains a divisive figure in American politics -- but not so much among Democrats. And surely many voters long for the strong economy and economic stewardship that was one of the hallmarks of his administration.
 Second, he could burnish his legacy. In exchange for joining the ticket, Mr. Clinton could negotiate for plum assignments as vice president. Mideast peace? National health care? Racial equality? He could focus on any or all of them. And from a purely personal standpoint, it might be especially gratifying for Mr. Clinton to be part of the team that defeats the man who four years ago promised to restore ''character'' to Mr. Clinton's own White House.
 The only remaining question, then, is what John Kerry thinks of all this. Judging from recent debates, there's little chemistry between Senators Kerry and Edwards, although Mr. Edwards's graceful withdrawal may help ease tensions between them. But Mr. Kerry and Mr. Clinton would seem to have much in common; they are nearly the same age, worked with each other in Washington for almost a decade and have a shared interest in foreign affairs.
 For Senator Kerry, the question may well come down to whether adding Mr. Clinton to the ticket would appreciably increase his chances of victory. A couple of polls should give him the answer fast enough. If the results are good, the course is clear: bring him on. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article yesterday about possible Democratic vice presidential candidates had an outdated reference to the office held by Evan Bayh. He is a United States senator from Indiana; he is no longer governor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DISMISSALS (71%) Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (91%); BILL RICHARDSON (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%); EVAN BAYH (58%) Stephen (Prof) Gillers; John (Sen) Kerry; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



50 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE POLLS

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Cross Section of Democrats Shows Kerry's Wide Appeal

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JANET ELDER

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry relied on a broad cross section of the Democratic electorate for his sweeping victory yesterday, with surveys of voters showing that he ran remarkably strongly with virtually every category of Democratic voter coast to coast.
 Among independents and Republicans who voted in Georgia, where the race was closer than elsewhere, Mr. Kerry was less popular than Senator John Edwards. But he pulled even with Mr. Edwards among independents in Ohio. 
 And in California, 2 in 10 voters were independents, and almost twice as many voted for Mr. Kerry as for Mr. Edwards.
 Mr. Kerry's mixed record in winning over independents suggests a potential weakness for him in the fall election against President Bush.
 Still, the surveys of voters leaving the polls also suggested that Mr. Edwards was not an effective messenger for his signature argument -- that he is more skeptical than Mr. Kerry of trade agreements, a problem that he says has been failing American workers and sending too many jobs overseas.
 In Ohio, about 70 percent of voters said free trade was hurting their economy, just what Mr. Edwards had been telling them. But more than half of those voters backed Mr. Kerry. There was a similar pattern in other states. But it was particularly significant in Ohio, because its economy is arguably worse off than the economies of other states, and Mr. Edwards campaigned hard there, believing that Ohioans would be receptive to his message.
 Nor did Mr. Edwards command a particularly passionate following. In many states, majorities who voted for him said they would be satisfied with Mr. Kerry as the nominee.
 In Santa Ana, Calif., Tony Lugo, a retiree, said that although his heart was with Mr. Edwards he had voted for Mr. Kerry.
 ''I just don't want to lose my vote with Edwards,'' Mr. Lugo said. ''Bush has to come out. Right now, the one in the best position is Kerry.''
 The surveys were conducted in each state by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for a pool of five television networks and The Associated Press.
 Across the country, voters overwhelmingly identified the economy and jobs as the most important issue, an even more important question than terrorism or the Iraq conflict. 
 They perceived Mr. Kerry as having the best chance to beat Mr. Bush, a quality identified as the most important quality in a Democratic candidate. In New York, 4 in 10 voters said they were looking for a candidate who could defeat Mr. Bush, and 80 percent of those voters voted for Mr. Kerry.
 In Brooklyn, Justin Sharpe, 38, a systems analyst with a financial services company, voted for Mr. Kerry.
 ''He is a more progressive Democrat and he has a better understanding of the issues,'' Mr. Sharpe said. ''Plus, I figured that Kerry would win, anyhow.''
 That has been a source of frustration to Mr. Edwards's campaign, which maintains that Mr. Kerry's success has been largely tautological -- Mr. Kerry has been winning because he has been winning. Since Mr, Kerry won the Iowa caucuses, the first state to vote, other states have gone for Mr. Kerry in rapid succession, with voters perceiving him as the most electable.
 The surveys yesterday indicated that Mr. Kerry had solidified the perception among Democratic primary voters that he has the best chance of beating Mr. Bush. He had support across the board, among men and women, blacks and whites, rich and poor, young and old, highly educated and less educated, Protestants and Catholics and union members.
 He also ran better than Mr. Edwards in Georgia, his strength coming from minorities. Nearly half the Democratic primary voters there were black, and 6 in 10 voted for Mr. Kerry.
 Similarly, black voters in New York favored Mr. Kerry, in something of an embarrassment to the Rev. Al Sharpton in his home state. Blacks made up about a sixth of the New York electorate, and nearly 5 in 10 voted for Mr. Kerry. About 4 in 10 voted for Mr. Sharpton.
 Mr. Kerry did even better among Hispanics, who accounted for 11 percent of the New York vote. He drew the support of two-thirds. Mr. Sharpton won fewer than 1 in 10.
 In Maryland, where 35 percent of voters were black, nearly 7 in 10 voted for Mr. Kerry.
 A problem for Mr. Kerry appears to be his soft support among independents and Republicans.
 In Georgia, independents and Republicans were largely responsible for Mr. Edwards's relatively strong showing. Independents accounted for nearly 2 in 10 votes. One-third went to Mr. Kerry. Half the independents voted for Mr. Edwards.
 In Crawford, Ga., Diane Brewer, an interior designer, said she voted for Mr. Edwards ''because I really don't like Kerry.''
 ''He's so liberal,'' Ms. Brewer said. ''He's over the top. One week he's for gay marriage, the next week he's not. I can't deal with somebody who can't make up their mind.''
 At the same polling place, Bonnie Ash, a retail designer, said she had just voted for Mr. Kerry.
 ''He can beat Bush,'' Mrs. Ash said.
 In the Wisconsin primary, on Feb. 17, independents and Republicans also favored Mr. Edwards. In New Hampshire, where independents and Republicans also voted, they favored Mr. Kerry.

How the Polls Were Conducted
 The polls on the primary election day were based on questionnaires completed by voters on Tuesday as they left voting stations throughout California, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland, New York and Ohio.
 The polls were conducted by Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., and Mitofsky International of New York City for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News.
 The results are based on voters in 20 to 45 randomly selected precincts across each of the six states interviewed as they were leaving voting stations. They were 2,356 voters in California; 969 in Connecticut; 1,709 in Georgia; 1,704 in Maryland; 1,411 in New York; and 1,475 in Ohio. In California, 400 of the interviews were conducted by telephone with absentee voters.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by no more than plus or minus three to four percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters in the six Democratic primaries.
 Results based on subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on an election day, like the reluctance of some people to take time to fill out the questionnaire, may introduce other sources of error into the poll.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the Democratic primary results in Connecticut gave an incorrect home state in some copies for Senator John Edwards. He is from North Carolina; his birthplace was South Carolina. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''AT THE POLLS: What Was on Their Minds''Open primaries: other parties can participate*:CALIFORNIAGEORGIAOHIOClosed primaries: only Democrats can participate:CONNECTICUTMARYLANDNEW YORKPOLITICAL PHILOSOPHYLiberalCALIFORNIATotal: 51Kerry: 52Edwards: 46GEORGIATotal: 38Kerry: 45Edwards: 28OHIOTotal: 42Kerry: 42Edwards: 40CONNECTICUTTotal: 59Kerry: 61Edwards: 53MARYLANDTotal: 52Kerry: 56Edwards: 48NEW YORKTotal: 52Kerry: 55Edwards: 43ModerateCALIFORNIATotal: 34Kerry: 34Edwards: 39GEORGIATotal: 40Kerry: 40Edwards: 43OHIOTotal: 43Kerry: 43Edwards: 44CONNECTICUTTotal: 32Kerry: 32Edwards: 40MARYLANDTotal: 37Kerry: 38Edwards: 37NEW YORKTotal: 37Kerry: 36Edwards: 41ConservativeCALIFORNIATotal: 15Kerry: 13Edwards: 14GEORGIATotal: 22Kerry: 15Edwards: 29OHIOTotal: 15Kerry: 15Edwards: 16CONNECTICUTTotal: 9Kerry: 7Edwards: 7MARYLANDTotal: 11Kerry: 7Edwards: 15NEW YORKTotal: 11Kerry: 9Edwards: 16PARTY IDENTIFICATIONDemocratCALIFORNIATotal: 74Kerry: 80Edwards: 69GEORGIATotal: 71Kerry: 85Edwards: 59OHIOTotal: 72Kerry: 80Edwards: 66CONNECTICUTTotal: 85Kerry: 89Edwards: 80MARYLANDTotal: 82Kerry: 89Edwards: 74NEW YORKTotal: 85Kerry: 91Edwards: 78IndependentCALIFORNIATotal: 22Kerry: 18Edwards: 25GEORGIATotal: 19Kerry: 13Edwards: 23OHIOTotal: 24Kerry: 18Edwards: 29CONNECTICUTTotal: 15Kerry: 10Edwards: 18MARYLANDTotal: 14Kerry: 9Edwards: 20NEW YORKTotal: 14Kerry: 8Edwards: 19RepublicanCALIFORNIATotal: 4Kerry: 2Edwards: 6GEORGIATotal: 10Kerry: 2Edwards: 18OHIOTotal: 4Kerry: 3Edwards: 6CONNECTICUTTotal: 1Kerry: 1Edwards: 2MARYLANDTotal: 4Kerry: 1Edwards: 6NEW YORKTotal: 2Kerry: 0Edwards: 3REASON FOR VOTECan defeat BushCALIFORNIATotal: 41Kerry: 53Edwards: 30GEORGIATotal: 36Kerry: 51Edwards: 23OHIOTotal: 35Kerry: 43Edwards: 30CONNECTICUTTotal: 45Kerry: 57Edwards: 29MARYLANDTotal: 44Kerry: 56Edwards: 31NEW YORKTotal: 45Kerry: 57Edwards: 33Agrees with you on the major issuesCALIFORNIATotal: 51Kerry: 42Edwards: 63GEORGIATotal: 53Kerry: 41Edwards: 65OHIOTotal: 56Kerry: 47Edwards: 62CONNECTICUTTotal: 44Kerry: 33Edwards: 65MARYLANDTotal: 46Kerry: 37Edwards: 58NEW YORKTotal: 46Kerry: 35Edwards: 54Based on questionnaires completed by 2,356 voters in California, 1,709 voters in Georgia, 1,475 voters in Ohio, 969 voters in Connecticut, 1,704 voters in Maryland and 1,411 voters in New York as they exited polling places. The survey was conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for the National Election Pool.Those who gave no answers or supported other candidates are not shown. Figures add vertically.*In Georgia, all registered voters may participate. In Ohio and California, independents can participate, but not registered Republicans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); TERRORISM (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries; Public Opinion

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) John (Sen) Kerry; Katharine Q Seelye; Janet Elder

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



51 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Kerry's Unreal Deal

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Yogi Berra was wrong: even though it ain't over, it's over. Super Tuesday has met its Democratic Superman. John Kerry now enters Phase III of his four-phase campaign.
 Phase I was: ''I am just as antiwar as Howard Dean, despite my vote, and I'm just as incensed at Bush's unilateralism. But I'm not a nutty newcomer, and I won't self-destruct.'' 
 This message, combined with Ted Kennedy's help and the inept anti-Dean military mount chosen by the Clintonites, propelled ''the new Kerry'' to front-runnership. 
 Phase II was to beat off the smooth spellbinder from the South who -- had just a few thousand Iowans switched -- would have taken the Big Mo into New Hampshire. 
 Kerry did it by again absorbing his main opponent's message. John Edwards was gaining populist support by riding the railings against free trade, picking up protectionist votes by spreading fear of wild Indians in global back rooms serving U.S. stockbrokers.
 But the Massachusetts senator, a lifelong free trader who had warmly embraced Nafta, spun on a dime and denounced the ''special interests'' who were ''outsourcing jobs'' and ''bilking our people.'' The strategy of the newest new Kerry culminated in yesterday's coast-to-coast sweep. By stealing the trial lawyer's summation, he clinched the Democratic nomination.
 Now come the harder parts. In Phase III -- in the nearly five months from now to his Boston acceptance -- Kerry must reach back and reveal the bedrock ''old Kerry,'' before his tactical pre-emption of Dean's pacifism and Edwards's protectionism. 
 I remember conversations in Davos over the years with a serious, low-key senator whose thoughtful mien and earnest deliberation belied his down-the-line lefty voting record. I found Kerry to be a nice stiff, not a rigid stiff, who wears and worries well.
 In the current phase, with the nomination in his pocket, he can stop emulating Dean's anger and copying Edwards's dual-Americanism. (Where will the Deaniacs and the trial lawyers go -- to Nader? No; they will swallow the old Kerry -- perhaps the real Kerry -- to beat Bush.)
 That means he will have to cut the adopted negativist rhetoric of the early phases, like last week's ''heartbreaking reminder of the millions of Americans without work'' whose ''mainstream values are scorned by a White House that puts privilege first.'' 
 Such red meat tastes great to the already convinced, but will come across as hot air to independents who decide close general elections -- a group where Kerry is weakest. Their eyeballs also roll heavenward when a politician who voted to welcome China into the World Trade Organization waggles a finger at election time to warn the Chinese leaders that ''they will feel the full force of our trade laws'' if they don't adjust the value of their currency. 
 Kerry began to back away from the protectionist pitch last week, when editorialists began to hold their noses at echoes of the Smoot-Hawley trade barriers that preceded the Depression. In Toledo, Ohio, after taking the usual pop at strawmen who say ''everything will be fine if only we have more tax cuts for the wealthy,'' Kerry dared to add a shot at Edwards: ''or if we cut off trade with the rest of the world.''
 Some of us hoped that he would get substantive at a nonstump speech at the U.C.L.A. Center for International Relations. But it was an unworthy hodgepodge; if Bush had given such a speech, it would have been widely panned as thin, political, gimmicky and naive.
 Apparently Kerry's advisers are worried about a too timely capture of Osama bin Laden, thus: ''This war isn't just a manhunt.'' He anticipates criticism for relying too much on the U.N.: ''As president, I will not wait for a green light from abroad when our safety is at stake.'' And he has a simplistic, Mr. Fixit solution to terror weapons: ''I propose to appoint a high-level presidential envoy empowered to bring other nations together to secure and stop the spread of these weapons.'' That'll solve it.
 Phase III demands much more serious thinking, enabling voters to compare worldviews and economic plans. That will lay the basis for Phase IV: the September-October debates, and the candidates' reactions to crises and job trends. That will determine if Kerry's ideas are as relevant as those laid out in detail by Bush. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); OUTSOURCING (67%); SECURITIES BROKERS (64%); LAWYERS (63%) Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%) William Safire; John (Sen) Kerry; Howard (Dr) Dean; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



52 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Clothing Sales Expected to Show Surge

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
Shoppers liked the sexy new miniskirts. They liked the new lines from Ralph and Calvin. And maybe most of all, they liked the weather.
 After a disappointing holiday season, some of America's clothing merchants are getting ready to announce healthy sales numbers for February. Predictions for the month's sales have been rising sharply over the last week as the final receipts have rolled in, especially at department stores like Saks Fifth Avenue. 
 Last Friday, analysts predicted that for department stores, sales at stores open at least a year would rise 1.6 percent over last February's sales. By yesterday, they were predicting a 4.6 percent increase, according to Thomson First Call, in contrast to a decline of 5 percent last February. 
 Both Wal-Mart Stores and Target are expected to show significant gains, while Gap could prove to be the biggest exception to the rule, with a weaker performance than last year, analysts say.
 Retailers will announce the actual numbers tonight and tomorrow.
 Analysts said yesterday that the increases were in part a result of excitement over the new department store lines produced by Ralph Lauren and Calvin Klein, the appeal of trendier clothes from teenager-oriented retailers and better weather conditions over the weekends of Valentine's Day and Washington's Birthday. 
 The freshness of the clothes, including low-rise miniskirts (nicknamed Paris Hiltons for the social adventurer) and T-shirts with spaghetti straps, will result in significant improvement for American Eagle Outfitters and even Abercrombie & Fitch, where comparative sales were lower for most of last year, said Richard E. Jaffe, an analyst at UBS. 
 American Eagle, which last year looked as if it were falling into an abyss, is expected to report a percentage sales increase in the mid-teens from the same period in 2003, compared with last February's decline of 7.8 percent. 
 Sales started to gain momentum just after Christmas, said Margaret Mager, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs. ''The momentum started in January, and roared into February,'' she said. ''Everyone's going to look good.'' 
 Laurence C. Leeds Jr., chairman of Buckingham Capital Management, an investment banking firm that specializes in retailing, said that this February's numbers would represent ''the best comp store performance I've ever seen, considering that it's taking place in a deflationary environment.''
 For Saks Fifth Avenue, the contrast between this February and last February is dramatic: an estimated 15 percent rise over last year, versus the decline of 11.4 percent posted in February 2003. Company executives at Limited, a major specialty chain, raised their own projections for sales growth last week, to the mid-single digits from the low single digits. Federated Department Stores, which owns Macy's and Bloomingdale's, also raised its estimates, from 2 to 3 percent to 7 to 8 percent. The May Department Stores Company, which owns Lord & Taylor, has reported record traffic in stores, and analysts expect a merry 4 percent sales increase over last year.
 The picture, while distinctly rosy for high-end and midlevel retailing, is not totally sublime: the weakest sector seems to be the moderately priced apparel stores like Kohl's, J.C. Penney and Sears, analysts said yesterday. ''We've heard it from the suppliers,'' Ms. Mager said. ''In February, the consumer was increasingly interested in trading up'' to higher priced merchandise.
 Yet analysts also predicted sizable increases for warehouse clubs like BJ's and Costco and discounters like T.J. Maxx, which could be up 10 percent, compared with last year's drop of 5 percent for February.
 Then there was the less glamorous reason for the sales increases: the weather. Last year's bad weather during the Washington Birthday's weekend (February's biggest selling time) means that this year's numbers are, by comparison, what the industry calls ''easy comps:'' they are not hard to beat. 
 ''A blizzard wiped out the whole weekend'' last year, said Mr. Jaffe of UBS, who focuses on teenage retailers like Pacific Sunwear and American Eagle. ''So what does that mean? If you do $1 in sales this Presidents' weekend, you're up 100 percent.'' 
 Still, Mr. Slater titled a report issued this week: ''February Comps Preview: It's Not Just the Weather.''
 ''Our very robust 7.2 percent comp gain,'' he wrote, ''is driven at least equally by increases in real demand and early acceptance of fashion newness this spring.'' Mr. Slater, like other retail analysts interviewed, said he thought the trend would continue until summer.
 In a report issued this week, Shari Schwartzman Eberts, an analyst at J.P. Morgan, suggested that leaner inventories might have helped as well. Most retailers, she wrote, started the year with fewer clearance racks, ''which may have shifted the product mix from final clearance toward full-price spring merchandise, potentially boosting the bottom line'' for the whole quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (95%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); TEENS MARKET (79%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (79%); WEATHER (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CHRISTMAS (72%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); DEFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Apparel

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (74%); MACY'S INC (73%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Saks Fifth Avenue

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); AEO (NYSE) (74%); M (NYSE) (73%); WMT (NYSE) (56%); GS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (73%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (78%) Tracie Rozhon

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



53 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Democrats at Polls Focus on One Objective: Beating President Bush

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN; Christopher Dixon contributed reporting from Orange County, Calif., for this article, Anne Berryman from Athens, Ga., and Ariel Hart from Atlanta.

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, March 2 

 BODY:
With a canary yellow windbreaker pulled around his clerical collar and a bright blue stocking cap on his head, the Rev. James Lewis trudged two blocks down a potholed alley from St. Ignatius High School to his polling site in the recreation hall at the Fellowship Christian Church. 
 After he voted, he said he had gone with Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, the candidate who had impressed him most, and had not been dissuaded from voting by those who said there was no need to bother because Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts had the nomination all but sewn up. 
 ''The important thing is finding someone who can win in November,'' Father Lewis, 68, said.
 Like more than two dozen other voters interviewed as they emerged from the polls in four of the biggest Super Tuesday states -- California, Georgia, Minnesota and Ohio -- Father Lewis felt that the primary season was drawing to a rapid close and that it was time for Democrats to turn their attention to the campaign against President Bush.
 Peter Thompson, 73, a retired biology professor and antique shop owner in Athens, Ga., said it was time for the Democrats to unite. ''I'm going for Kerry because it might firm up his ascendancy,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''And then Edwards might accept the vice-presidential nomination.''
 His bottom line was simple: ''Get Mr. Bush out of office fast.''
 Tony Lugo, a 72-year-old retiree in Santa Ana, Calif., who moved to California in 1986 from Puerto Rico, said that his heart was with Mr. Edwards but that he had voted for Mr. Kerry. ''Bush has to come out,'' Mr. Lugo said. 
 There were few kind words for President Bush on Tuesday from Democratic voters interviewed, and some of the judgments were harsh.
 ''I am not passionate about Kerry, but I think Bush is a positive evil,'' said Lance Ash, 34, an illustrator in Crawford, Ga., who said he had always voted for a third-party candidate in the past but would back a Democrat this year.
 ''We want Bush out,'' said Jorge Luque, 73, as he and his wife climbed into their car after a post-voting stroll on Laguna Beach in California. ''He's a liar. He lies to us, to everyone. Iraq, it was all a big lie.''
 Conversely, interviews with Republican voters, especially in Georgia, gave an early indication of the way Bush supporters were viewing Mr. Kerry. 
 ''He's so liberal, he's over the top,'' said Diane Brewer, 53, an interior designer in Crawford, Ga. ''One week he's for gay marriage, the next week he's not. I can't deal with somebody who can't make up their mind.''
 Several voters mentioned the unconventional weapons that have yet to turn up in Iraq, but others had different reasons for wanting a change in government. Mave Houser, 70, a retired food services worker at the University of Georgia, had a laundry list.
 ''I feel like we need a big change because of the economy,'' Ms. Houser said. ''I feel like we went into an unnecessary war, and there are so many people out of jobs. I feel like the administration now has given to the rich and not the poor.''
 In Duluth, Minn., several hundred people converged just before 7 p.m. at Central High School, on a bluff overlooking Lake Superior, for caucuses covering about half the city's precincts.
 ''I guess jobs are the most important issue right now,'' said Jerry Taylor, 52, a steelworker in the heavily unionized, strongly Democratic city. ''And I don't like the way they've handled the war in Iraq, either.''
 Not long after the Duluth caucus started, word began to spread that Mr. Edwards was dropping out of the race. Some who had come to support him were disappointed, but quick to express their confidence in Mr. Kerry.
 The loss of manufacturing jobs overseas, an issue that both Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards had pressed in recent weeks, was frequently cited, especially by Ohio voters. 
 ''I think the economy is the big thing, and the need for more jobs,'' said Mattie Washington, 69, a hotel laundry worker, as she emerged from the polling site at St. Charles Borromeo Church in Parma, Ohio, just outside Cleveland. ''Mr. Kerry seemed very strong on this.''
 Ohio City, a half-gentrified neighborhood just across the Cuyahoga River from downtown Cleveland, where renovated Victorian homes with gourmet kitchens share blocks with ramshackle apartment houses, is the whole story in a nutshell, said Jim Polaczynski, 38, a video maker for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 
 Mr. Polaczynski does not normally pay much attention to politics, he said, and came out to vote Tuesday only to show support for the local congressman, Dennis J. Kucinich. He said he thought that Mr. Kerry would win the nomination and that he planned to support him in November.
 ''The guy just looks presidential,'' Mr. Polaczynski said. ''And in this country, I think it's all about the image.''
 Ohio got more attention from the candidates than most of the other Super Tuesday states, drawing repeated visits partly because Mr. Edwards thought he stood a strong chance here. But also, many Democratic strategists are convinced that the key to this year's election is winning several economically hard-hit Great Lakes states, with Ohio at their center. 
 Almost evenly split between the parties, Ohio went for Mr. Bush in 2000 by only 3.6 percentage points. Growing anger about the economy in cities that have been battered by plant closings, like Cleveland, could shift the state to the Democratic column this year, Democratic strategists say. 
 ''I think we have to work harder than we did last time, in 2000, but we can win it this year,'' said one Cleveland resident, Victoria Korkosz, a fund-raiser for nonprofit groups. ''And the way to do it is to talk about jobs, jobs, jobs.''
 The biggest mistake Ohio Democrats made in 2000 was underestimating the third-party candidate Ralph Nader, Ms. Korkosz said. That will not happen again, she said.
 In 2000, Father Lewis said, he voted for Mr. Nader, but would not do so again and did not expect many others to, either. Ohio is too important this year, and the race here is too close, he said.
 ''I think it's a real tossup,'' Father Lewis said. ''The outcome is really going to depend on what happens between now and the election. Do they find Osama bin Laden? Does the economy get better or worse? It could really go either way.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Cleveland, the Rev. James Lewis, left, said it was about time for Democrats to turn their attention to the November election. The way for the party to win ''is to talk about jobs, jobs, jobs,'' Victoria Korkosz, center, said. ''Bush has to come out,'' said Tony Lugo, a 72-year-old retired Californian. ''And right now, the one in the best position is Kerry.'' (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)
 (Photographs by David Maxwell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LIBERALISM (72%); MARRIAGE (60%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries; Public Opinion

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Rick Lyman

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); ATHENS, GA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) California; Minnesota; Georgia; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



54 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2; Corrections

LENGTH: 77 words

 BODY:
An article on Feb. 17 about a visit by President Bush to a manufacturing plant in Tampa, Fla., to promote his economic policies misstated the number of employees that the plant owner said she was now able to hire because of an upturn that she attributed to the president's policies. 
She is hiring 10 workers, with the possibility of advertising five to seven other positions. (Forty was her estimate of the jobs she might create if the economy continued to improve.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%) Labor; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Correction Stories; Hiring and Promotion

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Tampa (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004



55 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3; BLOCKS

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: To Help Cross the Lower Manhattan Maze, a New Twist

BYLINE: By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
SEDUCED by the distinctive architecture planned around the World Trade Center site, it is easy to forget that one of the most important transformations of Lower Manhattan will be almost invisible, at least from the street.
 A series of passageways being planned, including underground concourses, would permit pedestrians to make a sheltered journey, uninterrupted by traffic, from Vesey Street and North End Avenue in Battery Park City to Broadway and John Street. 
 By paying a subway fare, travelers bound for the No. 2 or 3 trains could extend the trip as far as William Street; almost four-fifths of a mile under cover. (To put it in Midtown terms: Times Square to the Chrysler Building.) 
 Linked to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's Fulton Street Transit Center, the network would knit together seven subway stations serving 14 lines with the World Trade Center PATH station and the Battery Park City ferry landing. 
 ''It will be a very safe and pleasant experience and, particularly for commuters, it will be very efficient,'' said Joseph J. Seymour, executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the trade center site, where much of the east-west concourse would run, as would a north-south concourse parallel to Church Street.
 The concourse system will link the World Financial Center in Battery Park City to the rest of Lower Manhattan under the heavily trafficked West Street-Route 9A.
 ''It is to some extent restoring what was there, but in a much more positive way,'' said Lawrence F. Graham, executive vice president of Brookfield Properties, the principal owner of the World Financial Center. ''This will probably be the first long passage that's designed all together as part of one experience.''
 Brookfield Properties considers the concourse so important that it would have placed the entrance right in the Winter Garden itself, Mr. Graham said, except for the fact that the atrium sits over water and atop complex structural steel. Instead, the concourse escalators may be joined to the atrium through a covered walkway or enclosed structure.
 Especially in the wake of the January freeze, a sheltered pedestrian network sounds quite inviting. But underground concourses (like skyways in other cities) are not an unmixed civic blessing. If they are simply unadorned passages, they can be bleak and discouraging. If they are filled with stores, restaurants and other amenities, they can drain life from the streets.
 Planners are trying to strike a balance. And the tension is showing.
 The Department of City Planning grew more outspoken this week in its objections to some elements of the trade center plan, including the north-south concourse, which would be lined with retail space.
 ''Our prime objective here, unlike the old trade center, is to enhance and strengthen the retail at grade,'' said Amanda M. Burden, the director of the department. ''Wonderful retail is always at street level. That's what we're striving for, where it's not insular, where it's not like Atlanta or Houston or any other place, where it's New York retail.'' 
 Mr. Seymour and Kevin M. Rampe, the president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said the current concourse plan is appropriate.
 ''There's 10 million square feet of space that we're putting into 12 acres,'' Mr. Seymour said. ''We ought to give people as many alternatives and options as possible.'' He cited the passageways around Grand Central Terminal as the model.
 ''The terminal has tentacles that go above ground and below ground,'' Mr. Seymour said. ''We think that's good city design.''
 Mr. Rampe framed the question in terms of corporate retention and attraction, saying, ''These are the kinds of investments that businesses are going to look at when they're making their decisions: the ease with which people can walk around and move around Lower Manhattan.''
 Ease of travel was not what the builders of the subway had in mind; at least, not between their lines and their competitors' lines. Though the systems were amalgamated 64 years ago, the journey can still be tortuous between the stations of the old Interborough Rapid Transit, Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit and Independent lines. 
 SMOOTHING those connections is the chief goal of the Fulton Street Transit Center, which will be linked to the trade center through a passageway under Dey Street.
 ''Customers have told us it's just as important how the station is laid out and how easy it is to navigate as it is to be on a train and have the train be on time,'' said William M. Wheeler, the director of special project development and planning at the M.T.A.
 But he added that the center would include some retail space at street level.
 Perhaps fears of a dominant underground mall will turn out to be unfounded. 
 Daniel Okrent, the author of ''Great Fortune: The Epic of Rockefeller Center'' (Viking, 2003), and now the public editor of The New York Times, wrote in an e-mail message: ''The Rockefeller Center concourse, which has of course been the model for scores of others around the world, was for decades an economic failure, despite its enormous traffic. Rockefeller Center might be proof that if what's above ground is appealing enough, a concourse isn't going to hurt it.'' 


GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan shows surrounding area of the PATH station. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); FERRIES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CITIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (69%); RETAIL PROPERTY (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%); BROOKFIELD OFFICE PROPERTIES INC (53%)

TICKER: BPO (TSX) (53%); BPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (53%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (53%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



56 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10; THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

LENGTH: 33 words

 BODY:
DOLLAR GAINS. The dollar rose on speculation that an expanding economy will add jobs, which could hasten higher interest rates. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2185, down from $1.2219 on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since Sept. 2002. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%) Currency; United States Economy; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Credit; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



57 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Under Investor Pressure, Disney Picks New Chairman
In a remarkable vote of no confidence against a once unassailable executive, shareholders owning an estimated 43 percent of the Walt Disney Company withheld their support to re-elect Michael D. Eisner, the chairman and chief executive, to the board.
 The mounting shareholder dissent prodded the board to strip Mr. Eisner of the chairman's title and give it to George J. Mitchell, Disney's presiding director and a former United States senator. [Page A1.]

Interbrew Chief Discusses Deal
It may take three years to achieve, but the combination of two of the world's top five brewers will eventually generate more profit than the two could separately, John F. Brock, the chief executive of Interbrew, said in an interview. Interbrew of Belgium has made a deal to combine with AmBev of Brazil in a deal valued at $11.4 billion. [World Business, Section W.]

An investment in a Brazilian brewery in 1989 has paid off handsomely for three investors now that AmBev has made a deal to merge with Interbrew. [World Business, Section W.]

Ebbers Pleads Not Guilty
Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive of WorldCom, pleaded not guilty in a Federal District Court to charges of conspiracy and fraud growing out of the scandal that drove the company into bankruptcy protection. [C5.]

Bush Pressures China on Software
The White House stepped up pressure on China to back off a plan to impose a software encryption standard for wireless computers. [C7.]

Insurance Official Is Criticized
Consumer groups criticized the president of the national association of insurance regulators, accusing him of paving the way for a weakening of customer protections. [C10.]

Profit Up 30 Percent at LVMH
Buoyed by record margins for its star leather goods and fashion brand, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton announced a 30 percent jump in profit for 2003. [World Business, Section W.]

SBC Seeks Agreement With Rivals
A day after a federal court rejected government regulations governing competition in the telephone industry, SBC Communications sent a letter to rival carriers suggesting that they settle their differences outside the regulatory structure. But at least one major competitor, AT&T, rejected the move as a cynical attempt to capitalize on the court decision, which has been seen as a victory for local telephone companies like SBC. [C4.]

Technology Shares Dip
Blue-chip stocks edged up yesterday, while technology shares dipped. The Dow Jones industrial average closed nearly flat, rising 1.63 points, to 10,593.11. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 1.93 points, at 1,151.03. The Nasdaq fell 6.29 points, to 2,033.36. [C10.]

United Hires Redford for Ads
United Airlines has enlisted the help of Robert Redford as it starts its first new corporate ad campaign in five years. Advertising. [C6.]

Risks of Hiring Student Interns
Student interns can be a boon to small companies -- but without proper supervision they can do surprising damage. Small Business. [C8.]

Schwarzenegger's Next Test
The next major test of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's ability to govern will be fixing California's ailing workers' compensation system. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,593.11 up 1.63Nasdaq composite -- 2,033.36 down 6.2910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.05% Unch.The euro -- $1.2185 down 0.0034The dollar -- 110.07 yen up 0.01Graph ''TODAY'' shows the percentage change in factory orders from July - Dec. 2003.January figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.5%Graph tracks the share price of SBC since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); LITIGATION (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); INSURANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (75%); BREWERIES (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); CONSPIRACY (71%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (70%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (63%); AIRLINES (61%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (83%); AT&T INC (83%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); CIA DE BEBIDAS DAS AMERICAS (AMBEV) (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%); MC (PAR) (83%); LVMH (BIT) (83%); T (NYSE) (83%); AMBV3 (BOVESPA) (56%); ABV (NYSE) (56%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); JOHN F BROCK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



58 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Chief Executives Planning to Hire Outnumber Those Who Foresee Cuts

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Chief executives of the nation's largest companies say they are finally ready to begin hiring again.
 For the first time in at least a year and a half, more executives plan to increase employment in the United States over the next six months than plan to cut jobs, according to a survey released yesterday by the Business Roundtable, a lobbying group. Thirty-three percent of the executives said they would add jobs, up from just 12 percent in October, while 22 percent said they would reduce the number of employees.
 ''C.E.O.'s believe that the U.S. economy is on course for continued steady improvement,'' said Henry A. McKinnell, chairman of the Business Roundtable and chief executive of Pfizer, the drug company. 
 A separate survey of midlevel managers in the service sector and a Federal Reserve report on regional economic conditions, both released yesterday, suggested that employment had continued to grow slowly in recent weeks.
 Dr. McKinnell said that he still did not expect job growth this year to reach the levels of past recoveries, largely because companies have become more efficient and can produce more goods with fewer hands. Asked whether he expected the economy to add 200,000 to 300,000 jobs a month, as it did through parts of the 1980's and 1990's, Dr. McKinnell said, ''We're not quite that bullish at this point.''
 He added: ''But we're headed in that direction.''
 The survey of purchasing managers at service companies suggested that economic growth remained healthy but that companies were still not adding large numbers of workers. The Institute of Supply Management's index of economic activity in the service sector fell to 60.8 in February, from 65.7 in January. The employment index for the sector dropped slightly, to 52.7 from 53.4.
 A reading above 50 suggests growth. 
 ''February was a month of growth, but just not the same pace as we had seen in the month of January,'' said Drew T. Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers. ''This is still a strong number.''
 The Fed, in its regular review of regional economies, known as the beige book, said that employment grew slowly in January and February and that salaries ''increased slightly.'' The economy continued to grow across the country and appeared to be accelerating in the West, the Southwest and New York State, according to the report.
 The Fed also said that retail prices were stable or rising slowly, while prices for industrial items like iron ore increased more rapidly. Most investors expect that inflation will remain low in the coming months and that the Fed will wait until the summer to raise its benchmark short-term interest rate. 
 The new signs of the economy's continued growth helped lift the dollar to a three-month high against the euro. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose slightly, closing at 1,151.03, up 1.93 points. 
 The economic growth, however, has done relatively little to improve the labor market. From July of last year to January, even as the economy was growing at a healthy pace, it added just 57,000 jobs a month, far too few to keep up with population growth. 
 Economists expect the Labor Department to report tomorrow that around 125,000 to 150,000 jobs were created in February, which would be the biggest gain since late 2000.
 The outsourcing of American jobs to lower-wage countries has become a hot topic in the presidential campaign and the media, but most economists say that the productivity gains are the main cause of the weak job growth. 
 Dr. McKinnell echoed that argument yesterday, calling outsourcing ''a fact of life'' and noting that the pharmaceutical industry has actually brought a large number of research jobs into the United States from other countries in recent years. His concern, he said, was that American elementary and high schools were not strong enough to produce workers for high-skill, high-wage jobs.
 ''Some of these jobs are going abroad for cost reasons,'' he said. ''Others are going for capability reasons.''
 In the Business Roundtable survey, 88 percent of the executives said they expected their sales to increase in the next six months, down from 93 percent in December. Only 1 percent -- or one executive -- expected a drop. 
 Of the group's 150 members, 122 completed the survey, the group said. The survey was first conducted in late 2002 and until this month the number of executives planning job cuts had always outnumbered those expecting to increase their payrolls. 
 Over the next six months, 43 percent of the executives plan to increase their spending on new plants, equipment and software, and 50 percent said their investment would not change. 
 The executives expect the economy to grow 3.7 percent this year; Wall Street forecasters are more optimistic, predicting about 4.5 percent growth on average. Since the economy began to slow in 2000, executives have generally been less optimistic, and more prescient, than professional economists.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Manufacturing Grew in Most Areas''A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday.Minneapolis -- ''Firm'' economic growth was led by increases in residential real estate, consumer spending and manufacturing.San Francisco (Includes Alaska and Hawaii) -- Economic growth continued to expand with improvements in manufacturing and a fast pace in housing construction.Chicago -- The region's economy ''picked up somewhat,'' with increases in manufacturing.St. Louis -- Economic activity expanded slowly. Manufacturing and service sectors reported improvement. Retail and auto sales declined.Kansas City, Mo. -- Retail sales and manufacturing improved. Housing and energy sectors ''maintained a brisk pace.'' Labor markets remained sluggish.Dallas -- Manufacturing and retail sales increased. Energy prices rose, causing a rise in other prices.Cleveland -- The region's economy improved slowly. Industrial production increased from a year earlier, with a surge in demand for steel.Boston -- Manufacturers reported stabilized or increased revenues. Commercial real estate has weakened in Boston.New York -- Economic activity was ''increasingly robust'' with strong retail sales and improved labor markets.Philadelphia -- Manufacturers reported gains in business and expect improvements. Retail and auto sales increased from a year earlier.Richmond, Va. -- The region's economy showed signs of growth. Manufacturing grew. Farming was slowed by severe winter weather.Atlanta -- Commercial real estate improved, housing remained strong and retail sales met economic forecasts.(Source by Bloomberg News)(pg. C15)Map of the United States highlights the Federal Reserve's 12 districts.(pg. C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (76%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%) United States Economy; Executives and Management; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Service Industries; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Sales; United States Economy

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); PFIZER INC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Business Roundtable; Institute of Supply Management; Federal Reserve System

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



59 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Small and Smaller

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India 

 BODY:
Jerry Rao wants to do your taxes.
 Ah, you say, you've never heard of Jerry Rao, but the name sounds vaguely Indian. Anyway, you already have an accountant. Well, Jerry is Indian. He lives in Bangalore. And you may not know it, but he may already be your accountant. 
 ''We have tied up with several small and medium-size C.P.A. firms in America,'' explained Mr. Rao, whose company, MphasiS, has a team of Indian accountants able to do outsourced accounting work from across the U.S. All the necessary tax data is scanned by U.S. firms into a database that can be viewed from India. Then an Indian accountant, trained in U.S. tax practices, fills in all the basics.
 ''This is happening as we speak -- we are doing several thousand returns,'' said Mr. Rao. American C.P.A.'s don't even need to be in their offices. They can be on a beach, said Mr. Rao, ''and say, 'Jerry, you are particularly good at doing New York returns, so you do Tom's returns.'' He adds, ''We have taken the grunt work'' so U.S. accountants can focus on customer service and thinking creatively about client needs.
 Mr. Rao's ability to service U.S. accounts this way is at the core of a business revolution that has happened over the past few years. I confess: I missed this revolution. I was totally focused on 9/11 and Iraq. But having now spent 10 days in Bangalore, India's Silicon Valley, I realize that while I was sleeping, the world entered the third great era of globalization.
 The first era, from the late 1800's to World War I, was driven by falling transportation costs, thanks to the steamship and the railroad. That was Globalization 1.0, and it shrank the world from a size large to a size medium. The second big era, Globalization 2.0, lasted from the 1980's to 2000, was based on falling telecom costs and the PC, and shrank the world from a size medium to a size small. Now we've entered Globalization 3.0, and it is shrinking the world from size small to a size tiny. That's what this outsourcing of white-collar jobs is telling us -- and it is going to require some wrenching adjustments for workers and political systems.
 Globalization 3.0 was produced by three forces: First is the massive installation of undersea fiber-optic cable and bandwidth (thanks to the dot-com bubble) that have made it possible to globally transmit and store huge amounts of data for almost nothing. Second is the diffusion of PC's around the world. And third (what I missed most) is the convergence of a variety of software applications -- from e-mail, to Google, to Microsoft Office, to specially designed outsourcing programs -- that, when combined with all those PC's and bandwidth, made it possible to create global ''work-flow platforms.''
 These work-flow platforms can chop up any service job -- accounting, radiology, consulting, software engineering -- into different functions and then, thanks to scanning and digitization, outsource each function to teams of skilled knowledge workers around the globe, based on which team can do each function with the highest skill at the lowest price. Then the project is reassembled back at headquarters into a finished product.
 Thanks to this new work-flow network, knowledge workers anywhere in the world can contribute their talents more than ever before, spurring innovation and productivity. But these same knowledge workers will be under more pressure than ever to constantly upgrade their skills in this Darwinian environment.
 ''We created a worldwide network which connected all the resource pools on the planet, and suddenly we changed the rules of the game,'' said Nandan Nilekani, C.E.O. of the Indian software giant Infosys -- which last year received nearly one million applications from Indian techies for 9,000 software jobs. You cannot wish away this new era of globalization, he added. ''It will not go away.''
 So now I wonder: when they write the history of the world 20 years from now, and they come to this chapter -- Sept. 11, 2001, to March 2004 -- what will they say was most important? The attack on the World Trade Center and the Iraq war? Or, as Mr. Rao suggests, the convergence of PC's, telecom and work-flow software into a tipping point that allowed India to become part of the global supply chain for services the way China had become for manufacturing -- creating an explosion of wealth in the middle classes of the world's two biggest nations, India and China, and giving both nations a huge new stake in the success of globalization? I wonder. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); BANDWIDTH (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); FIBER OPTICS (60%); WORLD WAR I (50%) Labor; International Trade and World Market; Wages and Salaries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (65%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



60 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; A Messy Business: Clearing the Junk

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Iron Triangle in Queens Is an Eyesore to Some but a Livelihood to Others

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
The Iron Triangle, a 13-block area between Shea Stadium and the Flushing River in Queens, is the largest single stretch of junkyards in New York City, with more than 100 auto salvage yards, repair garages and automotive shops. Wedged amid bustling commercial areas in Corona and Flushing, the triangle is an auto salvage theme park.
 Here, business bustles against a backdrop of stacked, crumpled cars and a slum landscape. The streets are unpaved and lined with tire-change joints, hubcap purveyors, muffler shops, windshield installers and rim retailers. There are brake and transmission specialists, and auto body garages. The area goes back many decades, since parts purveyors first set up on these ash heaps that Fitzgerald mentioned in ''The Great Gatsby.''
 But the Iron Triangle's days may soon be over. Under a plan to revitalize parts of downtown Flushing, the city plans to condemn the Iron Triangle and shut its junkyards. The land, bounded by 126th Street, Willets Point Boulevard and Northern Boulevard, would be bought for a fixed price under eminent domain laws. 
 One study projected it would cost an estimated $214 million to buy the land and clean up decades of leaked gas, oil and other contaminants. Yet the city has no specific plans for the cleaned site yet. Officials at the city's Economic Development Corporation say they have begun soliciting ideas from local groups. Informal suggestions for the area include parkland, a convention or cultural center, a retail-entertainment or office building complex, a new stadium for the Mets or the Jets, or an Olympic village if the city is selected as the host of the 2012 Games.
 Politicians are on board and the plan has the widespread support of many business and community groups. 
 But like many business owners in the Iron Triangle, Danny Sambucci Jr., 46, of Sambucci Brothers Auto Salvage, complains that no politician, city official or civic leader has called or visited to brief them on what is going on.
 ''You got thousands of people here making a living and landowners who have paid taxes for decades, and we have to hear second-hand that we're going to have our land seized?'' said Mr. Sambucci, whose father, Danny Sambucci Sr., 73, opened the business in 1951. 
 Mr. Sambucci strips cars for parts and sells what is left to scrap metal dealers for $2 for every 100 pounds, or about $70 per stripped car. The parts can be lucrative. A BMW transmission can bring $1,500, he said, and a Mercedes engine can sell for $2,700. A Nissan Maxima engine can go for $250. The engines are cleaned in a special washing machine that filters out the toxic runoff.
 ''People think its 'Sanford and Son' down here, but it's serious business,'' said Mr. Sambucci's cousin Sammy Sambucci, 34. 
 Danny Sambucci Jr. said that he pays $72,000 in property taxes each year on his 2.5 acres of land but gets little back in services. The city has let the area deteriorate, he said, by not paving the streets and failing to install or offer sewers, sidewalks, signage, street lights or proper garbage pickup.
 ''They never wanted us here, so they ignored us, to make it make it look like a jungle, like a blight,'' he said. ''I can't relocate this business. Where am I going to go? Is there another community in Queens that will welcome us?''
 The area is as thriving a business community as the garment or meatpacking districts in Manhattan or the Hunts Point market in the Bronx, he said. But city officials say the triangle has long been an eyesore and a waste of valuable property close to subway and bus lines, major highways and both La Guardia and Kennedy International Airports. The triangle is a lapse in proper civic planning, they say, and its demise is long overdue. They say the Flushing redevelopment plan will expand retail, office and residential space, improve transportation and recreation spaces and revitalize the Flushing Bay and Flushing River waterfront.
 In a letter last month to the Empire State Development Corporation, the Queens borough president, Helen M. Marshall, wrote that the plan could ''transform a vastly underutilized tract of land into a thriving commercial center.''
 Almost as long as the Iron Triangle has existed, business owners have heard rumblings about development. In the 1960's, business owners hired the young Queens lawyer Mario M. Cuomo, who successfully stopped Robert Moses from redeveloping the land. But there seems to be no such unity this time, and longtime politicians say the project has political and economic momentum.
 Hiram Monserrate, the city councilman representing the area, said he recognizes the need to clear out the Iron Triangle.
 ''Clearly there is a better usage for that land, that would benefit the residents,'' he said. ''No one would want to build anything that is going to overlook those junkyards.''
 But he also cautioned, ''The city needs to be conscientious that workers will be displaced and that relocation is necessary.''
 City officials, including Mr. Monserrate and Councilman John C. Liu, say many Iron Triangle businesses have long been operating illegally and constantly violate city regulations. Business owners counter that this is an exaggeration and that many violations come from hard conditions the city imposes by neglecting the area.
 Officials at the Economic Development Corporation say they want to help Iron Triangle companies find ways to stay in business. ''We will be working with businesses there to identify relocation options,'' said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the corporation.
 In the Iron Triangle, everything is on display: chrome bumpers, rusted-out car chassis, tires, mirrors, windshields. Planes to La Guardia fly low overhead and collated car hoods cut jagged profiles against the sky. There is hot food at the small delis squeezed among the auto shops, and back behind the auto shops is a spice warehouse and a waste transfer station.
 In the streets, there are junkyard dogs, and workers jousting for customers by aggressively flagging down cars. Mechanics in greasy jumpsuits enjoy lunchtime soccer games around crumpled cars and crater-size potholes.
 The tremendous ethnic diversity in Queens is reflected in the names here: Zura's 1000's of Auto Parts, the Stubborn Tire Shop and 14 Stars Auto Glass. There is the Mexecu auto repair shop and El Salvador Auto Glass. New Pancho Auto Glass sits next door to New Pamir Auto Body. Nearby is Ebukune Transmissions and New Brother Auto Body.
 High-end Korean auto body shops fix sports cars for well-to-do businessmen from Flushing. Young, hip Japanese men flock to certain Japanese shops to soup up their low-riding sports cars. Hindi- and Arab-speaking livery cabdrivers bring their black Town Cars to garages with Afghan, Middle Eastern or South Indian owners. A Spanish-speaking customer looking for window tinting might go Colombia Auto Glass, owned by Hector Ospina, 45, a Colombian immigrant from Woodside.
 ''For Spanish people from poor cities, this does not look so strange,'' he said recently, looking over Willets Point Boulevard. ''The city does not care about this, but I'm worried because I have to support a lot of people.''
 Nearby at Aryana Auto Body, Salman Ali, 30, an auto body repairman, leaned on a Mitsubishi Galant with a bashed-in quarter panel.
 ''The only time the city comes down here is to ticket us; they take our taxes and don't fix anything,'' said Mr. Ali, an Afghan immigrant who supports his family in Flushing. ''Now they say they're going to move us out? Where will they put us? We have no place to go. We're poor people. We're not rich.''
 At Sambucci Brothers, there are hundreds of totaled cars that are stacked, waiting to be stripped. 
 ''I came down here as a barefoot kid collecting junk in a wagon,'' Danny Sambucci Sr. said.
 He hoped his son Danny Jr. would become a doctor, but now Danny Jr. owns the business and plans on passing it to his son, also named Danny, who is 16. 
 ''They took Manhattan from the Indians,'' Danny Sambucci Sr. said. ''Now they want to take this from us.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The city plans to redevelop the land and clean up the 13-block area of the Iron Triangle, which has more than 100 businesses, many of them junkyards. The auto salvage theme park is in the flight path of planes from La Guardia Airport.
Hubcap purveyors are among the business owners on and around Willets Point Boulevard who complain of getting little in return for their tax dollars.
 Crumpled cars are part of the triangle's landscape. ''People think it's 'Sanford and Son' down here, but it's serious business,'' one auto salvage worker said. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)Map of Queens shows the location of The Iron Triangle: No specific plans are in place for the triangle's redevelopment. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (77%); RETAILERS (77%); CITIES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TRANSMISSION REPAIR SHOPS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE EXHAUST REPAIR SHOPS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); POLITICS (69%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); PROPERTY LAW (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



61 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Loan Office in New York Looks to Tap Mexican Market

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 3 

 BODY:
Seeking to tap into the billions of dollars that Mexicans working in the United States send home each year, a Mexican mortgage finance company is opening a New York branch on Thursday to offer loans to Mexicans who want to buy a house in their country. 
 Last year, Mexicans sent home $13.27 billion, more than the country earned from foreign tourism. The money lifts many families out of poverty and in some regions is the only source of income. 
 Many Mexicans working in the United States hope to save enough to buy a house in Mexico and return. But the money they send home is often consumed by daily needs. 
 Under the lending plan created by Hipotecaria Nacional, Mexico's largest mortgage finance company, a Mexican working in the United States -- legally or illegally -- will be able to apply for a loan and pay the monthly installment in dollars through an American bank.
 Relatives in Mexico must also sign the loan, which is issued in Mexico in pesos and backed by Mexico's national mortgage bank, Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal. 
 ''We're entering the market in a way that we would be doing in any part of Mexico,'' said Jose Pablo Garcia Zuno, director of promotion for Hipotecaria Nacional. The New York office is the company's first in the United States. 
 According to the 2000 census, there are about 190,000 Mexicans in New York, although private estimates put the number at 300,000. They have found work in restaurants and construction, as domestic help and in grocery stores. 
 Mr. Garcia admits that some of the market research that his company did before setting up the New York office was less than scientific, and included conversations with waiters, who he estimated could make as much as $800 a week.
 Pulling out a calculator, he estimated that a worker would need to pay $400 a month for a 15-year mortgage at 15 percent interest on a house valued at about $36,000 with a 20 percent down payment. That interest rate, which would be quite high in the United States, is reasonable by Mexican standards, given higher base interest rates, inflation and the greater risk of default.
 Two employees at the New York branch office, which is called Hipotecaria Mexicana, will undertake the credit checks, visit the mortgage applicant's home and workplace. Applicants must have worked in the same place for at least two years. 
 Over the last few years, companies on both sides of the border have been seeking ways to do business on the money Mexicans send home. Banks have jumped into the money transfer business, once dominated by companies like Western Union and Moneygram. That has sharply lowered the costs migrants pay to send cash home. 
 When Bank of America, for example, spent $1.6 billion last year for a 24.9 percent stake in Banco Santander-Serfin, Mexico's third-largest bank, it cited the growing strength of the Hispanic market in the United States as a reason.
 The two banks have developed a money transfer program that, for a flat $10 fee, allows a worker in the United States to send money that relatives can withdraw directly from a Santander A.T.M. in Mexico. 
 But it has been Mexican companies that have come up with the most innovative ideas. Since 2001, Cemex, the cement giant, has allowed Mexicans to pay for bags of cement in the United States that relatives pick up in Mexico to build houses. The company, which has five offices in California and one in Chicago, even offers free engineering advice.
 Last September, Su Casita, another mortgage finance company, became the first to set up an American office, opening a branch in Denver. So far, Su Casita has granted some 50 mortgages and will open offices in Chicago and California this year, aiming to approve an additional 500 loans. 
 ''In Mexico, we have 70,000 customers, and 30 percent of those are in the informal economy,'' said Eduardo Uranga, who coordinates the program -- called ''your little piece of Mexico'' -- for Su Casita. ''Workers in the United States represent much less risk than in Mexico.''
 Hipotecaria Nacional also has modest goals, expecting to grant 200 to 250 mortgages the first year. 
 ''If we reach 300 or 400 mortgages, then we will start to see profits,'' Mr. Garcia said. Future offices are planned for Chicago, Los Angeles, San Diego and Texas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANK BRANCHES (77%); WIRE TRANSFERS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); RESTAURANTS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (56%); CENSUS (52%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%) Housing; Mortgages

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (56%); WESTERN UNION CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Hipotecaria Nacional

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); SANT (LIS) (56%); SANT (BIT) (56%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (56%); SAN (NYSE) (56%); SAN (MCE) (56%); SAN (BMV) (56%); BNC (LSE) (56%); WU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%)

PERSON: Elisabeth Malkin; Jose Pablo Garcia Zuno

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (95%) Mexico; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



62 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Nukes 'R' Us

BYLINE: By Gary Milhollin and Kelly Motz. 
Gary Milhollin is director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control. Kelly Motz is associate director.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
America's relations with Pakistan and several other Asian countries have been rocked by the discovery of the vast smuggling network run by the Pakistani nuclear scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan. Unfortunately, one American ally at the heart of the scandal, Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, seems to be escaping punishment despite its role as the key transfer point in Dr. Khan's atomic bazaar. 
 Dubai's involvement is no surprise to those who follow the murky world of nuclear technology sales. For the last two decades it, along with other points in the emirates, has been the main hub through which traffickers have routed their illegal commerce to hide their trails. Yet the United States, which has depended on the emirates as a pillar of relative stability in the Middle East and, since 1991, as a host to American troops, has done little to pressure it to crack down on illicit arms trade. 
 In the wake of the Khan scandal, Washington has at least acknowledged the problem. President Bush singled out SMB Computers, a Dubai company run by B. S. A. Tahir, a Sri Lankan businessman living in Malaysia, as a ''front for the proliferation activities of the A. Q. Khan network.'' According to the White House, Mr. Tahir arranged for components of high-speed gas centrifuges, which are used to enrich uranium so it can be used in nuclear weapons, to be manufactured in Malaysia, shipped to Dubai and then sent on to Libya. (In its investigation, the Malaysian government implicated another Dubai company, Gulf Technical Industries.) 
 American authorities say that Mr. Tahir also bought centrifuge parts in Europe that were sent to Libya via Dubai. In return for millions of dollars paid to Dr. Khan, Libya's leader, Col. Muammar Qaddafi, was to get enough centrifuges to make about 10 nuclear weapons a year. 
 Why ship through Dubai? Because it may be the easiest place in the world to mask the real destination of cargo. Consider how the Malaysian government is making the case for the innocence of its manufacturing company. ''No document was traced that proved'' the company ''delivered or exported the said components to Libya,'' according to the country's inspector general of police. The real destination, he said, ''was outside the knowledge'' of the producer. One can be certain that if the Khan ring's European suppliers are ever tracked down, they will offer a similar explanation.
 Dubai provides companies and governments with a vital asset: automatic deniability. Its customs agency even brags that its policy on re-exporting ''enables traders to transit their shipments through Dubai without any hassles.'' Next to Dubai's main port is the Jebel Ali free trade zone, a haven for freewheeling international companies. Our organization has has documented 264 firms from Iran and 44 from rogue regimes like Syria and North Korea. 
 With the laxity of the emirates' laws, there is simply no way to know how many weapon components have passed through. But consider some incidents that our organization has tallied -- based on shipping records, government investigations, court documents, intelligence reports and other sources -- over the last 20 years.
 * In 1982, a German exporter and former Nazi, Alfred Hempel, sent 70 tons of heavy water, a component for nuclear reactors, from Sinochem in China to Dubai. The shipping labels were then changed to mask the transaction, and 60 tons of the heavy water were forwarded to India, where it enabled the government to use its energy-producing reactors to create plutonium for its atomic weapons program. The other 10 tons went to Argentina, which was interested in atomic weapons at the time. 
 * In 1983, Mr. Hempel sent 15 tons of heavy water from Norway's Norsk Hydro, and 6.7 tons from Techsnabexport in the Soviet Union, through the emirates to India.
 * In 1985 and 1986, Mr. Hempel sent 12 more tons of Soviet heavy water to India that were used to start the Dhruva reactor, devoted to making plutonium for atomic bombs. (The details of these transactions come from German and Norwegian government audits, but Mr. Hempel, who died in 1989, was never convicted of a crime.)
 * In 1990, a Greek intermediary offered Iraq an atomic-bomb design (probably of Chinese origin) from Dr. Khan in Pakistan, with a guarantee that ''any requirements or materials'' could be bought from Western countries and routed through Dubai. Iraq has said it rejected the offer and suspected it of being part of a sting operation, although a more likely explanation is that the impending 1991 Persian Gulf war precluded the deal.
 * In 1994 and 1995, two containers of gas centrifuge parts from Dr. Khan's labs were shipped through Dubai to Iran for about $3 million worth of U.A.E. currency. 
 * In 1996, Guide Oil of Dubai ordered American-made impregnated alumina, which can be used for making nerve gas ingredients, and tried to pass it along to an Iranian purchasing agent, Drush Jamshidnezhad, in violation of American export control laws. A sample was delivered before the deal foundered when middlemen were caught by American officials in a sting operation.
 * Also in 1996, the German government listed six firms in Dubai as front companies for Iranian efforts to import arms and nuclear technology.
 * From 1998 to 2001, several consignments of rocket fuel ingredients shipped to Dubai by an Indian company, NEC Engineers, were sent to Iraq, in violation of Indian law and the United Nations embargo on Saddam Hussein's regime. 
 * In 2003, over Washington's protests, emirates customs officials allowed 66 American high-speed electrical switches, which are ideal for detonating nuclear weapons, to be sent to a Pakistani businessman with longstanding ties to the Pakistani military. American prosecutors have indicted an Israeli, Asher Karni, for allegedly exporting the switches through Giza Technologies in New Jersey to South Africa and then to Dubai. 
 The pattern is terrifying, and those examples are most likely a small part of the overall picture. So, will the Bush administration, with its focus on fighting terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction, start cracking down on the emirates? The first signs are not promising. President Bush has warned of interrogations in Pakistan and actions against the factory in Malaysia that supplied Dr. Khan, but has given no hint of any penalties against Dubai. Lockheed Martin is about to send 80 F-16 fighters to the emirates, and a missile-defense deal may be in the offing. 
 The lesson of the Khan affair is that instead of focusing solely on ''rogue regimes,'' we have to shut down the companies and individuals that supply them with illicit arms and technology. The United States and its allies have to put pressure on the countries that allow the trade to flourish -- even if it means withholding aid and refusing arms sales. Unless Dubai cleans up its act, it should be treated like the smugglers it harbors.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lloyd Miller) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); SMUGGLING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CENTRIFUGES (86%); ARMS TRADE (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%) Atomic Weapons; Smuggling; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Gary Milhollin; Kelly Motz; Abdul Qadeer (Dr) Khan

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); MALAYSIA (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%) Pakistan; Dubai; Iran; Libya; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



63 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Blue Chips Are Up Slightly As Technology Shares Dip

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks edged up yesterday, while technology shares dipped, as investors gave a lukewarm welcome to mixed economic reports and cast a wary eye toward tomorrow's job data.
 Semiconductor stocks weighed down technology issues, as mid-quarter numbers from Xilinx Inc. disappointed investors and tempered expectations for a coming business update by Intel.
 The Dow was buoyed by Wal-Mart Stores, which raised its dividend, and 3M, whose top-selling drug was approved to treat a common form of lesion. 
 Stocks fell in early trading after a report on the United States services sector pointed to an improving but still sluggish labor market, keeping investors on guard before tomorrow's monthly payrolls data. 
 Blue chips recovered losses in the afternoon after the Federal Reserve's Beige Book summary of economic conditions showed moderate to accelerating growth.
 ''If you take a look at the economy, it is growing at a reasonable pace, but it's not going great guns,'' said John Caldwell, chief investment strategist at McDonald Financial Group. ''The stock market is pricing in a lot of good news and there's some risk sitting at high levels of valuation. We don't mind being defensive and taking profits.''
 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average closed nearly flat, rising 1.63 points, or 0.02 percent, to 10,593.11. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 1.93 points, or 0.17 percent, at 1,151.03. The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index fell 6.29 points, or 0.31 percent, to 2,033.36.
 Trading was moderate, with 1.3 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, below the 1.4 billion daily average for last year. About 1.8 billion shares were traded on Nasdaq, in line with last year's daily average. The number of advancing and declining issues were roughly equal on the New York Stock Exchange and on Nasdaq.
 The Dow was propped up by Wal-Mart, which raised its annual dividend by 44 percent, to 52 cents. Its shares rose 81 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $60.36.
 3M rose after the Food and Drug Administration approved its Aldara cream to treat actinic keratosis, a common type of precancerous skin lesion, expanding the use of its top-selling drug. Its shares rose 64 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $78.95.
 McDonald's shares inched up after it said it would eliminate super-size French fries and soft drinks by the end of the year, part of a swing toward pleasing health-minded customers and simplifying its menu. Its shares rose 47 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $28.89.
 The chip maker Xilinx lost $1.70, or 4 percent, to $40.88. Xilinx said it expected revenue to come in at the high range of its previous forecast, but some investors were expecting the company to raise its outlook.
 Intel, the world's largest chip maker, fell 56 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $29.04. Lehman Brothers said investors expect Intel to narrow its revenue target in its mid-quarter update on Thursday to the lower end of its previous goal, because of weakness in the notebook computer market.
 Shares of Costco Wholesale fell $1.40, or 3.5 percent, to $38.31 after the company reported higher quarterly profit. Analysts said Costco continued to struggle with steep costs even as sales soared. 
 Treasuries recovered to close flat on Wednesday as the latest economic evidence eased the bond market's concerns that tomorrow's payrolls report would show a sharp increase in hiring. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note dropped 2/32, to 9918/32. The note's yield was unchanged from Tuesday, at 4.05 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ELECTRONICS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); FAST FOOD (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SEMICONDUCTORS (72%); US FDA APPROVALS (71%); CANCER (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); SKIN CANCER (68%); SKIN DISORDERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); SOFT DRINKS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (90%); XILINX INC (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (90%); XLNX (NASDAQ) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



64 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Africa: Zimbabwe: New U.S. Sanctions

BYLINE: By Michael Wines (NYT)

 BODY:
The United States tightened economic sanctions against Zimbabwe, blacklisting seven companies tied to the nation's leaders and the ZANU-PF party, and threatened further strictures should the government ''continue to oppress its citizens and to resist forthright efforts toward resolving the country's political crisis.'' Separately, Zimbabwe's state-run radio accused the United States of trying to topple President Robert Mugabe by distributing millions of ''revolutionary condoms'' with stickers urging citizens to ''Get up! Stand up!'' and fight for their rights. The slogan is from a song that the reggae star Bob Marley performed at the nation's 1980 independence celebration. One news agency reported that a few hundred such condoms were recently distributed by Enough! -- an underground opposition group. Michael Wines (NYT)




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



65 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: France: Hotel Company's Profit Falls

BYLINE: Dow Jones

 BODY:
The hotel and leisure company Accor reported a 37 percent decline in net income for 2003 as the global economic slowdown, the war in Iraq, the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome and foreign exchange fluctuations hurt results. The company said it earned 270 million euros ($329 million) last year, down from 430 million euros in 2002 and below the 281 million euros expected by analysts. The company said, however, that it had seen signs of recovery in the second half of the year, particularly in the United States, Britain and Germany. The company, which is based in Paris, said it cut its debt by 370 million euros and maintained its dividend; and its share price rose 3 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the share price of Accor since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); SARS (88%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (88%); IRAQ WAR (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: LEISURE CO (91%); ACCOR SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Accor Sa

TICKER: AC (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



66 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Patrols Start in Haiti, But Residents Remain Wary

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, March 3 

 BODY:
United States marines took to the lawless streets of the capital on Wednesday, patrolling in light armored vehicles and Humvees late in the afternoon in their first direct attempt to quell the violence that has racked the city since the former president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, fled Sunday.
 The rebel leader, Guy Philippe, announced that he would disarm his men and leave the city, effectively ending a power struggle over who would control the streets. He agreed to disarm after a 10-minute meeting with American military commanders in the capital.
 Haiti's interim president, Boniface Alexandre, spoke to the nation for the first time since Sunday, urging Haitians to unite to defuse the nation's crisis. 
 ''I call on all sides,'' Mr. Alexandre said in a radio address in Creole, ''on all citizens of goodwill, to join us in a reconciliation process and to help each other in rebuilding our nation.'' 
 But the political crisis deepened. Prime Minister Yvon Neptune declared a state of emergency, which effectively suspended many of the rights guaranteed by Haiti's Constitution. He said the government was struggling to perform its most basic functions. 
 ''I have remained in my post to ensure an orderly transition,'' Mr. Neptune said at a news conference on Wednesday afternoon. ''However, this is not the case for the ministers of my government. Those who did not leave the country had to go underground for fear of violence to them and their families.'' 
 Mr. Alexandre said he had fired the police chief and named an interim chief, and had frozen all state accounts except the one controlled by Mr. Neptune. 
 It was a day of violence and fear in the capital. Rebels and the police battled Aristide loyalists with volleys of gunfire in the squalid slums that sent thousands of people fleeing.
 Jeudi Backner, an electrician, was working at a shop on Jean-Jacques Dessalines Boulevard when he heard shots ring out down the street. A dozen rebel soldiers and policemen opened fire on a pack of armed pro-Aristide militants, known as chimeres, Mr. Backner said.
 ''They were just shooting and shooting,'' Mr. Backner said as he cowered in a doorway a few blocks from the shootout. ''The police went to disarm the chimeres, but they didn't want to drop their guns.'' 
 It was a scene played out a half-dozen times on Wednesday, until 60 to 70 marines took to the streets in about a dozen vehicles. It was a show of force seemingly intended to quell the confusion and anarchy that have reigned since Mr. Aristide, the country's first democratically elected president, left office early Sunday under pressure from the United States and France, and from the armed rebels led by Mr. Philippe. 
 Mr. Aristide flew to the Central African Republic; he is expected to leave there soon for permanent asylum elsewhere. 
 Mr. Philippe -- appearing more subdued than he did on Tuesday, when he marched through the capital declaring the country was ''in his hands'' -- said he would soon leave the capital and withdraw his men. 
 ''Now that there are foreign troops promising to protect the Haitian people,'' he said at a news conference, ''we will lay down our arms.'' 
 The marine contingent more than doubled on Wednesday, to 1,100. There are also 600 French soldiers here, military officials said, and 200 more are to arrive Thursday.
 The marines were received with both wariness and gratitude. Small crowds gathered wherever they patrolled, and dozens of people clung to the green metal fence outside the National Palace to ogle three armored vehicles parked on the lawn.
 ''The last time they came they didn't do much,'' said Raymond Beausejour, a 34-year-old plumber who has been unemployed for five years. ''This is not the kind of aid we need. They should help us build schools and clinics and to get jobs.'' 
 But Yolette Estimable, who lost thousands of dollars in a government-backed pyramid scheme, said she was glad the marines were there. ''They will bring us security,'' she said. ''They will control the chimeres and let us live in peace.''
 Security was on the minds of people living in the largest and most squalid slum, Cite Soleil, a stronghold of support for Mr. Aristide, where residents said they feared an incursion by rebel troops. The leaders of the rebel army include members of Fraph, a militant group that massacred thousands of people, many of them Aristide loyalists, in Cite Soleil and other slums during the rule of the military junta that deposed Mr. Aristide in 1991.
 ''The gift we received from Fraph was pigs eating the bodies of our brothers and sisters,'' said Paul Virel, a 32-year-old militant who vowed to fight rebels who tried to suppress Cite Soleil's armed fervor for the deposed president. ''Mothers would wake up in the morning to find their sons dead. Fraph will never come here again. We would rather die stopping them than let Fraph come back.''
 But Elamise Misidor, who lives in a tin shack at the end of a rutted road flooded with putrid green water, said it made little difference who sat in the National Palace.
 ''It does not matter to me,'' she said, spooning rice from a metal plate into her daughter's mouth as she squatted on a rock. ''There is no life here. We have no money. We have no food.''
 A gang leader going by the name Billy said he had thousands of men armed with M-16 rifles, handguns and other weapons, ready to defend Cite Soleil.
 ''We are not going to wait for them to come and kill us,'' he said, an automatic handgun tucked into the hip pocket of his black Levis, a broad grin under the brim of his straw hat. ''We'll take care of Guy Philippe. You will see.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: United States marines on patrol yesterday in Port-au-Prince. About 60 took to the streets in a dozen vehicles to try to suppress violence between armed rebels and backers of the ex-president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide. (Photo by Michael Kamber/Polaris, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); SLUM DWELLINGS (67%); FIREARMS (67%); POLICE FORCES (58%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (93%)

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen; Boniface (Chief Justice) Alexandre; Guy Philippe; Jean-Bertrand Aristide; Yvon (Prime Min) Neptune

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (95%); FRANCE (79%) Haiti; Port-Au-Prince (Haiti); Haiti

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



67 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Energy Boom Has Wyoming Coffers Overflowing

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: CHEYENNE, Wyo. 

 BODY:
At the Hitching Post Inn, the cocktails were flowing and the roast beef was rare, courtesy of a local fertilizer company. State lawmakers and dignitaries bent elbows as lobbyists worked the reception. Talk drifted, as if often does these days here in Wyoming's capital, toward the spending of some serious money. 
 A state senator from Casper, or so this evening's rumor had it, was about to propose a $100 million infusion into Wyoming's higher education system. It would be huge, said the University of Wyoming's president, Philip L. Dubois, a glass of red wine in hand: 30 or more newly endowed chairs in a faculty of about 600 members. 
 ''It would be the largest single investment in higher education in the state's history for any purpose, at any time, ever,'' Dr. Dubois said later in an interview.
 While many other states are still struggling to find their financial footing after years of budget turmoil, Wyoming's tiny government is awash in cash. Part-time citizen-lawmakers who pride themselves on being so parsimonious that they do not have staffs or even offices are pondering how to use an enormous budget surplus. It is the largest surplus in the nation as a percentage of the budget, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
 The tax transfusion is driven by the energy industry, as most things in Wyoming tend to be. Extraction of natural gas, especially through the process called coalbed methane mining, has boomed, and gas prices have surged at the same time. Wave has built upon wave, resulting in what budget officials now expect will be about $1.2 billion more in tax revenues over the next two years than the state had anticipated.
 To put that number in perspective, Wyoming, the nation's least populated state, with only 500,000 people, spends about $5 billion a year on everything. Much of that is for highway repair and construction, linking up the dots of its far-flung communities. Or think of it this way: A surplus of similar percentage in California, which is struggling with the nation's largest budget mess, would just about erase all of that state's fiscal troubles this year. 
 The college idea, as it turned out, was true. State Senator Charles K. Scott, a Harvard-educated cattle rancher and a Republican, said in an interview the next morning at the Capitol that his amendment was intended to exploit the tough times other states are facing. While those states cut spending on higher education, he said, it is time for smart people with money in their pockets to steal away the best professors. 
 ''Their universities are open to being raided,'' Senator Scott said. ''I believe we ought to go ahead and do that.''
 But the talk here is not just about doling out largess. The deeper issue underpinning the argument about what to do with all that money centers on the question of time.
 No trend in Wyoming economics lasts forever; that is the etched historical wisdom of the last 100 years or so. Wyoming is a seller of raw commodities like natural gas to the global market, and state lawmakers have learned to live with the certainty that certainty itself is an illusion. Like the bucking bronco that adorns state license plates, things that go up always come back down. Old-timers still talk about the years of the Arab oil embargo in the mid-1970's when coal was king. Those fat years are just a memory now.
 ''There's a prayer around here,'' said State Representative Randall B. Luthi, the Republican majority floor leader in the House, who raises cattle and practices law in the town of Freedom. ''Dear God, give us another boom and we promise not to waste it this time.''
 Some politicians, however, led by Gov. Dave Freudenthal, say that this time may be different.
 Mr. Freudenthal, a Democrat, has argued that a structural change in the energy business, notably the recent completion of some big pipeline projects in Wyoming, creates at least the possibility of a long-term wave that could keep the tax money flowing for years. 
 If that happens, the governor said in an interview, Wyoming will have an obligation to start thinking more broadly about the consequences and costs of the boom -- and the energy extraction that produces it -- in order to protect wildlife and environmental quality for generations.
 ''The same national energy economy that fills our coffers could inadvertently turn our state into a water and wildlife wasteland,'' Mr. Freudenthal said in a speech to the Legislature on Feb. 9. 
 The governor's argument has mostly gone nowhere. He supported one bill, for example, that would have given private landowners a bit more leverage in dealing with gas drillers. Another Democratic idea would have begun a process for rethinking how environmental regulators coordinate their work. They were both modest bills, environmentalists say, but both died on the first day of the session, hours after Mr. Freudenthal's speech.
 Republican leaders in the Legislature say the evidence is not convincing that this economic cycle will be different. High gas prices cannot last, they say, especially in a presidential election year, when pressures are likely to be intense from Washington to bolster the national economy, which is dominated by energy buyers, not sellers.
 Senator Scott's $100 million college amendment ultimately died in the Senate on a 16-to-14 vote on Feb. 19. A retooled $50 million version died on Feb. 22 on a tie vote, 15 to 15. The money he had proposed spending is now likely to go into the state's savings accounts, he and other lawmakers said. But Mr. Scott said that he thought the idea was on the table, and that the close vote suggested that it had legs, given enough time. 
 ''It's put the issue on the agenda, if this surplus continues next year,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Charles K. Scott of Wyoming, above, proposed spending $100 million more on higher education. A budget surplus will help replace a Cheyenne school, left. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''States With Surpluses''Wyoming is expected to have the largest surplus as a percentage of its budget of any state for the 2004 fiscal year.(Source by National Conference of State Legislatures)Map of The United States highlighting states with deficit or no surplus and each state's projected surplus, as a percentage of the state's budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); LOBBYING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); FERTILIZERS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); ENDOWMENTS (70%); HISTORY (69%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); METHANE (69%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (63%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Gas (Fuel)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (82%); UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING (57%)

PERSON: Dave (Gov) Freudenthal; Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: CHEYENNE, WY, USA (94%); CASPER, WY, USA (73%) WYOMING, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Wyoming; Wyoming

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



68 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ADVERTISING

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Bush Ad Campaign Ready to Kick Off An Expensive Effort

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., March 3 

 BODY:
The Bush campaign on Wednesday announced the start of what may be the most expensive advertising campaign in presidential history, with commercials devised to erase months of Democratic attacks by portraying President Bush as a plain-spoken leader who steadied the nation after the 2001 terrorist attacks.
 Bush campaign officials said their objective was for an upbeat, yet realistic feel-good depiction of the president. But the advertisements on Wednesday night drew criticism from some Democrats and the union representing firefighters, for, they said, exploiting tragedy in their stark use of imagery related to the Sept. 11 attacks. Three of the four commercials unveiled feature images of the smoldering and charred shell of the World Trade Center still standing; one also shows firefighters emerging from the wreckage carrying a stretcher draped with an American flag, presumably covering remains.
 The carefully orchestrated announcement, coming the morning after Senator John Kerry effectively won the Democratic nomination, was clearly timed to signal that the White House was eager to move swiftly and aggressively into the general-election phase after months of being hammered by the Democratic candidates -- and seeing the president's poll ratings drop. In another move to ring the opening bell on the election, Mr. Bush called Mr. Kerry on Tuesday to congratulate him on his victories. 
 The unveiling of four advertisements, to be broadcast across the nation starting Thursday, offer the decidedly positive message that the country is getting back on its feet under the leadership of Mr. Bush, and that he inherited a troubled economy even before he took office.
 In one commercial, Mr. Bush sits beside the First Lady in the White House and says, ''I'm optimistic about America because I believe in the people of America.'' She says he has ''the strength, the focus, the characteristics that these times demand.'' In another, the words flash on the screen, ''Today, America is turning the corner.''
 The commercials, one in Spanish, are the start of what is expected to be not only the most expensive and sustained but also the most precisely focused advertising campaign in presidential history, one that could cost as much as $60 million by late August, Mr. Bush's advisers say. 
 This week alone, the campaign is spending well over $5 million to broadcast the commercials on stations in 17 states and on several national cable networks, Democrats who are monitoring advertising purchases said. 
 One Bush adviser likened the campaign's early advertising campaign to a ''palate cleanser.'' He said the early spots were meant to reframe the terms of the election debate while undoing the damage to the president's poll standing by months of advertisements from Democratic candidates and liberal groups -- many of them painting Mr. Bush as environmentally dangerous, fiscally irresponsible and, even, a liar. 
 ''We thought it important to start with a setting the table of where the country's been and what it's been through over the last three years,'' said Matthew Dowd, Mr. Bush's chief political strategist. ''We wanted to present the positive side of the president's vision for the country.''
 Mr. Dowd said that the campaign would move to a more confrontational phase in which Mr. Kerry would probably, in a matter of weeks, be called to task for his voting record, but that the exact timing of that phase had not yet been decided upon.
 But the advertisements carry risks, not only for walking the fine line between reminding the public that times are tough while making the case that it is not Mr. Bush's fault, but also for relying on imagery of the Sept. 11 attacks.
 The International Association of Firefighters -- which supports Mr. Kerry -- released a statement on Wednesday calling Mr. Bush to task for using images of firefighters and allusions to the Sept. 11 attacks in the advertisements.
 ''Bush is calling on the biggest disaster in our country's history, and indeed in the history of the fire service, to win sympathy for his campaign,'' Harold Schaitberger, the group's president, said in a statement.
 In its own release, Mr. Kerry's campaign called Mr. Bush's leadership ''unsteady'' and said his advertisements were ''revisionist history.''
 Indeed, several strategists said Mr. Bush's opening advertising theme was risky because he might be accused of glossing over -- or playing down -- economic problems that still pose challenges to ordinary Americans.
 Ken Mehlman, Mr. Bush's campaign manager, said that using Sept. 11 was perfectly fair and that Democrats had already politicized the attacks in various ways.
 ''This campaign is ultimately about the choice that voters are going to face next November and who will lead during the extraordinary times we live in,'' Mr. Mehlman said. ''And obviously 9/11 was the defining moment of these times and because of that day America has been at war and still is.''
 He added, ''I think one of the big messages and themes of this ad is the president's steady leadership -- what did the president do after these attacks on 9/11 in the weeks and months afterwards?''
 Mark McKinnon, Mr. Bush's chief media adviser, said the advertising team was careful not to have the spots too closely resemble Ronald Reagan's 1984 ''Morning in America'' commercial, famous for its optimism. ''We don't believe it's morning in America, we really don't,'' Mr. McKinnon said. ''We think maybe it's about 5 a.m -- we see the light over the horizon, but we're not there yet. We're very careful to say we've got work to do, we're on the right path.''
 That is especially apparent in one spot, called ''Safer, Stronger,'' which portrays Mr. Bush as inheriting problems of disastrous scale. Writing on the screen tells viewers that even before the Sept. 11 attacks Mr. Bush had inherited: ''An economy in recession. A stock market in decline. A dotcom boom . . . gone bust.'' It ends by declaring that the nation was ''rising to the challenge,'' under Mr. Bush's ''steady leadership in times of change.''
 In another spot, filmed in the White House residence a few weeks ago, when Mr. Bush talked about the state of the nation, he acknowledged that people continued to struggle to find work. ''As the economy grows, the job base grows, and somebody who's looking for work will be more likely to find a job,'' he says, a line teased out under the questioning of Mr. McKinnon.
 That spot is the flagship of the initial campaign -- taking full advantage of Mrs. Bush while also beating back charges by Democrats that Mr. Bush has lost touch with the people, a charge that had dogged his father in 1992.
 ''The premise of all the initial ads is, No. 1, after three, four, five, six months of an onslaught by the Democrats, to remind you what it is you like about this guy,'' one of Mr. Bush's strategists said. ''He's plain-spoken, smart, an emotional, from-the-heart kind of guy.''
 That message, Mr. Bush's aides said, will be delivered with all the power that the 200-channel television universe offers. The campaign is making the most extensive use ever of focused cable networks in a presidential election. It has placed spots on specialized cable channels like Speed Channel and FX, whose auto races are popular with ''Nascar Dads.'' Yet it is also seeking to place advertising on networks like TLC, whose ''Trading Spaces'' program is especially popular with young, upscale women.
 Still the campaign is not exactly eschewing the old-fashioned way of buying spots on television stations in battleground states. As of Wednesday night, Mr. Bush's campaign had committed at least $4 million to place advertisements on stations in 17 states.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A new Bush campaign advertisement shows firefighters emerging from the wreckage of the World Trade Center carrying a stretcher. (Photo by CNN)(pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Terrorism; Election Issues; Fires and Firefighters; World Trade Center (NYC); Presidential Election of 2004; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Finances

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Matthew Dowd; John (Sen) Kerry; Jim Rutenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



69 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1; BOOKS OF THE TIMES

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: How Bush's Advisers Confront The World

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

RISE OF THE VULCANS
The History of Bush's War Cabinet
By James Mann
Illustrated. 426 pages. Viking. $25.95.
 The Vulcans in James Mann's compelling new book are not the ultra-logical pointy-eared beings from ''Star Trek,'' but the Pentagon-trained pro-military foreign policy advisers who surround President Bush. Their nickname, which they coined during the 2000 campaign, came from the Roman god of fire and the forge, and was meant, Mr. Mann says, to convey a sense of ''power, toughness, resilience and durability.'' 
 Mr. Mann's real subject in this book is the United States' evolving relationship with the world over the past three decades, as American power rose from a nadir at the end of the Vietnam War to a position of military supremacy. The prism he uses to examine this subject consists of the beliefs and experiences of six leading Vulcans: Vice President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage and the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice.
 The resulting book is lucid, shrewd and, after so many high-decibel screeds from both the right and left, blessedly level-headed. It is necessary reading for anyone interested in understanding the back story of how and why America came to deal with the rest of the world the way it is doing under the Bush administration.
 Although much of the information is familiar from newspapers and policy documents, Mr. Mann -- a former correspondent for The Los Angeles Times -- does an impressive job of pulling it all together and connecting a multitude of dots. He explicates the complex legacy of such watershed events as Vietnam, Iran-contra and the first gulf war, while at the same time showing how crisscrossing alliances and rivalries among the Vulcans in earlier Republican administrations informed the debates and the decisions surrounding the war in Iraq.
 Despite serious disagreements that emerged between Mr. Powell and Mr. Armitage at State, and Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Wolfowitz at the Pentagon, Mr. Mann argues, larger shared assumptions tie the Vulcans together. These are a belief in the importance of American military power, a focus on traditional national security issues (as opposed to, say, international economic concerns), a belief that ''American power and ideals are, on the whole, a force for good in the world'' and an optimism about America's abilities and its future. 
 Some of the Bush administration's policy decisions, this book suggests, were fed by temperamental differences among the Vulcans and by internal decision-making dynamics. Mr. Mann describes Mr. Powell as a problem solver and pragmatist, not given to big-picture thinking, and chides him for failing to put forth a compelling alternative to Mr. Wolfowitz's vision of America as an unchallengeable superpower or to Ms. Rice's National Security Strategy with its doctrine of pre-emption. 
 He also observes that bureaucratic warfare between the Pentagon and the State Department meant that the White House was regularly called upon to resolve disputes, further enhancing Mr. Cheney's already substantial leverage and power. 
 Mr. Mann charts the permutations and flip-flops in neoconservative thinking over the years, underscoring how the cause of democracy and self-determination overseas went from being a largely liberal, Democratic idea (looked upon with suspicion by conservatives like Jeane J. Kirkpatrick in the late 1970's) to a fiercely held axiom of the Bush administration.
 He similarly charts the sea change that the thinking of some Vulcans underwent over the years, although he does not always manage to explain exactly why those changes came about. For instance he points out that Ms. Rice evolved from being a pragmatist (in the tradition of Henry A. Kissinger and her mentor Brent Scowcroft) to being ''the prime mover behind the drafting of a new National Security Strategy that laid the framework for a preventive war.'' 
 In addition Mr. Mann reminds us how policies, frequently presented by the Bush administration as responses to a post-9/11 world, had roots in long-standing neoconservative theories and propositions: from the push by many Vulcans for a more assertive, moralistic stance toward the Soviet Union in the 1970's and 80's, to a hawkish 1992 Defense Planning Guidance paper, which was drafted by Mr. Wolfowitz's office, sponsored by the defense secretary at the time, Dick Cheney, but turned aside by the White House of the current president's father. 
 For Mr. Mann, the terrorist attacks of 9/11 ''greatly accelerated'' the willingness of the current administration ''to rethink cold war ideas about national security'' -- namely, containment, deterrence and multilateral approaches to foreign policy -- and persuaded the Vulcans that ''America had entered a new era and needed new concepts to guide it.'' 
 In the ensuing months, he observes, the administration would abandon the ABM Treaty, move away from cold war strategies of deterrence, recast America's stand on nuclear weapons, turn the war on terror into a campaign against weapons of mass destruction and reshape American approaches to Israel and the Palestinians. 
 The decision to invade Iraq last year, Mr. Mann writes, ''encapsulated virtually all the key elements in the Vulcans' views of the world'' and ''reflected the foreign policy ideas and themes that the Vulcans had gradually developed over the previous three decades.'' 
 Writing in clear, authoritative prose, Mr. Mann provides a coolly nonpartisan assessment of these developments. He argues that while Democratic leaders often accused the Republicans of unilateralism, ''the truth was that the Clinton administration too gave far less weight to principles of collective security than had America's leaders from the 1940's through the 1980's.'' On the other hand, he points out that after the war in Iraq ended, ''many of the forecasts of the hawks proved inaccurate,'' from their assertions about weapons of mass destruction to their predictions of a welcoming Iraqi nation.
 Mr. Mann wants to treat the Vulcans as a singular and historically important group, like the Wise Men, who shaped American foreign policy at the end of World War II, or the Best and Brightest who prosecuted the Vietnam War in the 1960's. 
 Unfortunately this premise sometimes goads him into playing down the serious schisms that developed among the Vulcans and also results, at the book's very end, in a highly dubious generalization, that ''during the 35 years from 1968 through 2003, the Vulcans reflected the moods and the beliefs of America as a whole.'' 
 But such reductive asides are rare in this book, which not only shows how the personal experiences of individual Vulcans shaped ''the choices they made after taking office in 2001 and after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11,'' but also delivers a measured and keenly analytic account of how the Vulcans as a group tried to promote their audacious and problematic vision of America as an unchallengeable behemoth, ''whose military power was so awesome that it no longer needed to make compromises or accommodations (unless it chose to do so) with any other nation or groups of countries.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Mann (Photo by Caroline E. Dexter/Viking)(pg. E10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); LITERATURE (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); DICK CHENEY (73%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Michiko Kakutani; James Mann

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



70 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Economic Scene

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Repairing workers' comp will be Schwarzenegger's next big challenge.

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
AFTER winning authority to borrow to keep the state afloat, the next test of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's ability to govern will not involve gay marriage or a constitutional amendment permitting immigrants to be president. Instead, it will be fixing the crisis in California's workers' compensation system, the program that provides cash benefits and medical services to millions of workers injured on the job. 
 ''I call on the Legislature to deliver real workers' comp reform to my desk by March 1,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said in his state of the state address in January. ''Modest reform is not enough.'' 
 That deadline has come and gone. With the Legislature still deliberating and the governor drafting a ballot initiative, it is unclear what will happen next -- but it is clear that the state workers' compensation system needs surgery. The predicament highlights what can go wrong in workers' compensation, a program that generally works well in most states. 
 Workers' compensation was the nation's first social insurance program. Most states passed laws in the 1910's and 1920's that made companies liable for workplace injuries on a no-fault basis, but limited the amount they had to pay. Workers gave up the right to sue their employer. The conventional wisdom is that workers and employers gained because the prevailing court system had been unpredictable and inefficient. Workers had typically received little from filing a negligence suit, and legal costs were high. 
 After California passed workers' compensation legislation in 1911, legal disputes were all but eliminated: fewer than 2 percent of claims for permanent injuries were contested in 1924-25. The central problem in California now is that the costs paid by employers are the highest in the country, while the benefits received by workers are about average -- in part because many cases are disputed, which wastes resources. 
 Total costs for California employers increased to $29 billion in 2003 -- eight times the gross domestic product of Haiti -- from $11 billion in 1998. By one estimate, the average employer in California pays 5.2 percent of payroll for workers' compensation insurance, more than twice the average of other states. Rates are much higher in hazardous occupations: 43 percent for loggers, 33 percent for roofers, 22 percent for carpenters and 18 percent for truck drivers. 
 The governor maintains that these high costs are the main reason jobs are leaving the state. But this confuses who writes the check (employers) with who bears the burden of the program (employees). Research has found that most workers' compensation costs are shifted to workers in the form of lower wages over time, so the effect on jobs is probably minimal. 
 Nonetheless, reducing inefficiency and administrative costs is to everyone's benefit. The main problems with California's system are: 
 Thirty percent of claimants who miss more than a week of work hire a lawyer -- much higher than in the other states -- according to Robert Reville, director of the Rand Institute for Civil Justice. Lawyers are involved in three-quarters of permanent disability cases, and their legal fees averaged $8,352 in 2002, or 20 percent of combined medical and cash benefits. For a system intended to reduce litigation, these figures represent failure. 
 Prof. John Burton of the Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations, widely considered the nation's leading workers' compensation scholar, traced many of California's problems to its complex system for rating permanent injuries that are only partly disabling. Such injuries account for almost 90 percent of benefit costs in California and 70 percent nationwide. Because the system gives much discretion, litigation is common for hard-to-measure medical conditions like back sprains. Furthermore, some injuries, like those to the shoulder, receive particularly low benefits compared with the wage loss workers experience. 
 The adversarial relationship that develops between workers and employers in contested claims causes California to have one of the lowest return-to-work rates of all states. 
 Medical costs are high, almost as high as the cash benefits that are meant to replace lost wages. Because workers' compensation insurance pays all the bills, doctors and patients have little incentive to restrain costs. Increasingly, in California and elsewhere, health care providers are shifting medical costs to workers' compensation by prescribing more services or charging more per service. 
 Medical costs are also high because workers and employers often hire dueling doctors to bolster their cases. Doctors selected by workers tend to rate a given injury as 34 percent more severe than doctors selected by employers or insurers; independent doctors tend to be between, but closer to employers' doctors. With this much difference of opinion, it is no wonder that so many cases are disputed. 
 While there is much agreement about the source of the problems, there is considerable disagreement about the solutions. 
 Professor Burton proposes using the American Medical Association's guidelines for rating the severity of disabilities. The guidelines are used in most states and provide a more objective and more clear basis for decisions, although he acknowledges that they are imperfect and should be adjusted to reflect earnings losses associated with various injuries. 
 He also proposes basing claimants' lawyers' fees on the difference between the amount employers offer and the award workers receive -- the lawyers' value added -- rather than the full amount of the award. And to foster cooperation, he suggests giving lawyers a bonus if workers return to work for a specified length of time. 
 A draft ballot initiative by Mr. Schwarzenegger would raise the burden of proof for workers to receive benefits; require physicians to use objective, observable medical evidence to assess injuries; restrict an employee's choice of doctor to those agreed to by his or her employer; deny compensation for impairments that result from cumulative activities, like back sprains, unless they are proved to be ''predominantly caused by actual activities of employment''; and deny compensation for other impairments unless a single work-related incident caused at least 10 percent of the disability. 
 Although restricting choice of doctor is controversial in California, Professor Burton notes that other states have limited the access to doctors for years. 
 He warns, however, that not compensating employees for injuries that arise from work but cannot be pinpointed to a particular event could have a major unintended consequence: employers could possibly be sued for large damages outside the workers' compensation system. 
 This type of collateral damage would set workers' compensation insurance back a century.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Higher Bills''Employers in California pay more than twice the rate in most states for workers' compensation insurance.Graph tracks the average rate that companies pay for workers' compensation insurance (Percent of payroll) in California and the United States (MEDIAN STATE) from 1986-2002.(Source by Oregon Department of Consumer and Business Services) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKERS COMPENSATION (94%); WORKERS COMPENSATION BENEFITS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION LAW (89%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); MARRIAGE (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); NEGLIGENCE (71%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (67%); TRUCK DRIVERS (60%); BALLOTS (54%) Workers' Compensation Insurance

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (91%) Alan B Krueger; Arnold Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%) California

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



71 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: A River Shortchanged, Again

 BODY:
The Army Corps of Engineers is still refusing to do right by the once-majestic Missouri River. Three years ago, the Fish and Wildlife Service ordered the corps to alter seasonal flows on the heavily dammed river -- raising water levels during the spring, lowering them during the summer -- to save an endangered fish called the pallid sturgeon as well as two endangered bird species. Last Friday, defying not only the service but also the courts, the corps essentially refused. The only winners here are a few Missouri politicians. The environment and the larger economic interests of the region all lose. 
 The lower Missouri -- the 732 miles between Sioux City, Iowa, and St. Louis -- is now little more than a barge canal; manipulating water flows from upriver dams will not recreate the grandeur that greeted Lewis and Clark. But it will help the fish and the birds, in part by restoring habitat, in part by mimicking the seasonal heartbeat of a natural river. The corps is perfectly capable of doing this, but won't. One reason is an institutional resistance to change, another the determined opposition of Christopher Bond, a Missouri senator with enormous influence over the corps' appropriations. Mr. Bond asserts that altering water flows will hurt the barge business. The plain truth is that the barge business has been shrinking of its own accord and shows little prospect of recovery. The corps' own studies have concluded that increased recreation on upriver reservoirs would compensate for the loss.
 The matter will soon be heard by Judge Paul Magnuson of Federal District Court in Minnesota. The corps will argue that re-engineering river flows is unnecessary and that it can satisfy its obligation to nature by creating 1,200 acres of artificial wildlife breeding habitat along the river. No serious scientist believes that this needlessly expensive alternative can do the job. One hopes that the judge will order the corps to make the adjustments to the river it should have made years ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ARMIES (90%); FISHES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); BIRDS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); LAND RECLAMATION (70%) Editorials; Barges and Scows; Dams and Dikes; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (93%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (84%) Army Corps of Engineers; Fish and Wildlife Service

PERSON: KIT BOND (79%) Christopher S (Sen) Bond; Paul A (Judge) Magnuson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Missouri River

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



72 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Tom DeLay and the Lobbying Game

 BODY:
The quest by the House majority leader, Tom DeLay, for greater Republican clout in the lucrative world of lobbying is bearing an embarrassment of riches. Two Washington lobbyists with close ties to Mr. DeLay have harvested a cool $45 million across three years by selling lobbying and public affairs services to four Indian tribes flush with casino profits. This is such an eye-popping profit that Senator John McCain is planning hearings on what he calls ''disgraceful'' suggestions of profiteering. Actually, the tribal contracts, reported by The Washington Post, exemplify the way the Capitol works. One of the enriched lobbyists had been a ranking staff assistant to Mr. DeLay, the other a close political ally. 
 Mr. DeLay declared last week that ''if anybody is trading on my name to get clients or to make money, that is wrong and they should stop it immediately.'' But his attempt to disown the lobbyists seemed a bit strained in light of his long campaign to make Republican lobbyists more dominant. ''If you want to play in our revolution, you have to play by our rules,'' he once famously declared.
 In another part of town, Mr. DeLay's fellow Texan and predecessor as Republican majority leader, Dick Armey, works as head of Citizens for a Sound Economy, a conservative antitax group that warns of ''slick, well-funded special interest lobbyists that constantly roam the halls of Congressional office buildings.'' Mr. Armey is also a private-sector lobbyist at a major firm, specializing in opportunities in the growing Capitol Hill market of homeland security.
 Across Washington, the amount companies report spending on lobbying has been rising steadily, to more than $160 million a month, according to Political Money Line, a watchdog group. It is clearly past time for a serious investigation of this industry. Senator McCain couldn't have picked a more worthy target. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); CASINOS (77%) Lobbying and Lobbyists; Politics and Government; Law and Legislation; Gambling; Indians, American

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS FOR A SOUND ECONOMY (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%) Tom (Rep) Delay; John (Sen) Mccain

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



73 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pressing China to Yield On Wireless Encryption

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The Bush administration stepped up its pressure on China this week to back off its plan to impose a software encryption standard for wireless computers that American technology companies regard as an unfair trade barrier.
 In a joint letter, Secretary of Commerce Donald L. Evans, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and the White House trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, expressed their concern about the Chinese plan and urged China to work with the United States to resolve the issue. The letter was addressed to Deputy Prime Ministers Wu Yi and Zeng Peiyan, and delivered in Beijing on Tuesday. 
 The unusual appeal by three cabinet-level officers is an attempt to defuse the first of a handful of potential conflicts between China and the United States in high-technology trade. The wireless encryption issue, analysts say, points to what may be a trend of China setting its own exclusive standards, including formats for future generations of cellphones and DVD players.
 American industry executives and trade officials express fear that the Chinese approach could fragment global markets in high-technology products in a misguided protectionist attempt to give Chinese producers an edge.
 But some industry analysts note that powerful nations over the years -- Britain and the United States, for example -- have exercised that kind of power by setting technical standards. With its huge population and fast-growing economy, China, they say, is merely trying to take its turn as a standard-setter.
 This week's letter refers only to the Chinese software standard for short-range wireless networks, known as Wi-Fi. In December, China announced that foreign computer and chip makers that want to sell Wi-Fi devices in the country would have to use Chinese encryption software and co-produce their goods with Chinese companies on a designated list. Foreign computer makers, led by Americans, have protested the plan.
 In addition to having to use a separate standard, the foreign companies worry about the loss of intellectual property if they are forced to work with Chinese companies who might become competitors. The Chinese plan, unless modified, will take effect on June 1.
 Industry representatives praised the effort by the Bush administration to resolve the issue. In recent months, administration officials have raised the wireless security standard with the Chinese. ''But this will broaden and escalate the discussion,'' said Rhett Dawson, president of the Information Technology Industry Council, a trade group. ''This makes it clear on a high-level, government-to-government basis that this is an important issue.''
 The cabinet letter is ''unusual and significant,'' said Bruce Mehlman, a former Bush administration official who is executive director of the Computer Systems Policy Project, an industry group. ''It speaks to the importance of the issue and the precedent of using technology standards as a nontariff barrier to restrict access to the Chinese market.'' 
 The administration has not released the letter. But an official confirmed that it focused on the wireless dispute and also expressed the broader concern about use of a technical standard as a trade barrier.
 An economic counselor at the Chinese Embassy in Washington could not be reached for comment yesterday. But in recent months, Chinese officials have reiterated their commitment to free trade and said short-term conflicts could be negotiated. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); CD & DVD DRIVES (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) Computers and the Internet; International Trade and World Market; Computer Software; Codes (Ciphers); Wireless Communications ; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: WU YI (73%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (73%) Steve Lohr; George W (Pres) Bush; Donald L (Sec) Evans; Colin L (Sec) Powell; Robert B Zoellick; Wu Yi; Zeng Peiyan

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



74 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Grown Cautious, Fox Expects Delay on U.S. Action on Migrants

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 3 

 BODY:
In an interview to discuss his scheduled visit to Texas this weekend, President Vicente Fox of Mexico said this week that he did not expect the United States to adopt sweeping reforms that would give legal status to millions of undocumented workers until well after the presidential election this fall.
 Mr. Fox reiterated support for a proposal by President Bush to give temporary work permits to an estimated eight million illegal immigrants. He described the plan, which could benefit as many as four million Mexicans, as ''an excellent starting point'' and later as ''great progress.'' And he praised Mr. Bush for having the ''courage'' to present the reforms despite opposition in the Republican Party. 
 Mr. Fox, who challenged the United States to open its borders to a greater flow of Mexican workers at the start of his presidency three years ago, made clear he had not abandoned his campaign. However, Mexico's first opposition president, whose rise to power ended seven decades of authoritarian rule, departed Tuesday evening from his unrelenting optimism and accepted that long-awaited migration reforms would have to wait some more.
 ''We understand clearly that we are in an election year,'' Mr. Fox said. ''We do not expect any kind of final decision this year. But starting next year, yes, after the election of the next president.''
 Political observers said the remarks reflected a changed and seasoned head of state.
 ''President Fox has become more realistic about what he can accomplish and when,'' said Jorge Chabat, a political analyst. ''He does not want to keep raising expectations and then fail to deliver what he promised.''
 Mr. Fox is scheduled to travel Friday to Mr. Bush's ranch in Crawford, Texas, to discuss migration, trade and border security. The meetings come at a time when Mr. Fox, battered by rising unemployment and a stagnant economy, hopes to show that his most important foreign policy initiatives are back on track. Meanwhile Mr. Bush, facing what may be a close election race, strives for support among America's Latino population.
 Officials in both governments said they did not expect any important agreements to be made during Mr. Fox's visit to Texas. What is important, political observers said, is that the two men agreed to meet at all.
 Three years ago, Mr. Bush visited Mr. Fox's family ranch in the northern state of Guanajuato and proclaimed that America had no greater friend than Mexico. Several months later, Mr. Fox became the first state visitor to the Bush White House.
 But the warm personal relationship between the two was severely strained after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States, when the Bush administration abandoned its promises to work on a migration accord with Mexico and Mexico voted against war with Iraq at the United Nations. Since then, Mr. Fox and Mr. Bush have had have had little more than stiff and fleeting encounters.
 The chill began to thaw in January when Mr. Bush announced his plans for the most comprehensive overhaul of American immigration policy in recent years. Most Mexicans praised the proposal for giving undocumented immigrants opportunities to work legally in the United States and be reunited with their families. Others, however, said it would allow the United States to enjoy the economic benefits of low-cost immigrant labor without offering workers the protections that come with permanent residency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); REFUGEES (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); IRAQ WAR (61%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Foreign Labor; United States International Relations; Labor; Election Issues

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Vicente (Pres) Fox Quesada; George W (Pres) Bush; Ginger Thompson

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%); IRAQ (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



75 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Designing Minds To the Millstone

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: MONTEREY, Calif. 

 BODY:
Question: What makes 800 of the country's smartest, most wildly successful architects, designers, inventors, chief executives, psychologists, ichthyologists, cosmologists, economists, digital artists and other members of the creative, academic and financial elite happy?
 Answer: Ruminating about ''The Pursuit of Happiness'' at the TED conference, the annual $4,000-a-pop three-and-a-half-day hedonistic be-in for the brain that brings together ''thought leaders'' from the worlds of technology, entertainment and design. Perhaps only at TED, as the 19-year-old conclave is known, would sexy Silicon Valley billionaires like Sergey Brin and Larry Page, the founders of Google, commune with nerdy M.I.T. professors who will attempt to explain string theory while hailing a taxicab. 
 To the TEDsters assembled here, happiness is to some extent a product of design. It is hearing about a prototype of a flying car (being developed by the inventor Paul Moller -- he's serious), or the chance to view a Johnny-Depp-look-alike robot head with video camera eyes and tiny electronic sensors embedded in its skin. The robot responds to human voices with realistic facial expressions and is made from ''frubber,'' a high-tech polymer, the brainchild of David Hanson, a 34-year-old doctoral candidate at the University of Texas at Dallas. Founded by the information designer Richard Saul Wurman, the conference has historically been a male-heavy, somewhat geeky inside-baseball kind of event, a launch-pad-by-the-sea for the Next Big Thing, from the unveiling of the Macintosh computer and Sony compact disc to the hatching of the M.I.T. Media Laboratory.
 These days, however, the TEDsters are increasingly looking outward. Dean Kamen, perhaps best known as the inventor of the Segway Human Transporter, the gyroscopic electronic scooter, is working on the distribution of a portable water purifier to help fend off disease in developing countries. William McDonough, who began his career as an architect, is now also a global sustainable design adviser who develops breakthrough toxin- and carcinogen-free textiles and is consulting with Chinese officials on urban design and new sustainable housing for 400 million people over the next 10 years. 
 Known for ''transformative experiences,'' in the words of Chris Anderson, the 47-year-old publishing magnate whose nonprofit organization, the Sapling Foundation, bought the conference in 2000, TED has long been a brain safari with plasma televisions in which people like the Amazon.com founder Jeff Bezos, the America Online founder Stephen M. Case and the ''Simpsons'' creator Matt Groening sip Starbucks while milling about curvilinear algorithmic steel columns designed by an ''architect-morphologist'' trying to decode ''the architectural genome.'' 
 The conference is known for moments of mind-bending cognitive dissonance. One moment, you are listening to Felix Dennis, the British publisher of Maxim magazine, recite his own Elizabethan-style poems by candlelight, complete with ''thys'' and ''thines'' and ''lady fairs.'' The next minute you are hearing an economist from the University of Chicago dissect the financial health of street gangs, comparing their corporate hierarchies to McDonald's. Reports from the front of scientific happiness research by Harvard neuropsychologists and others conclude that meditation is good and that the things we think will make us happy -- or sad -- do not radically change our happiness quotient.
 To promote happiness, a high-tech program by Macromedia was designed to help attendees find conferencegoers who shared their interests -- a sort of intellectual dating service presented in a color-coded graphic of blue and red pins that looked suspiciously like television primary coverage. (This forlorn participant, a technophobe, came up with only two not quite kindred souls.)
 Things like this happen at TED. Nevertheless, its historically self-referential culture seems to be shifting somewhat. As if to underscore a new other-directed definition of happiness, Mr. Anderson, who has funneled the roughly $1 million proceeds from the conference -- formerly a profit-seeking venture -- into various worthy causes, announced the creation of the Ted Prize, ''an award program like nothing else out there,'' in which three ''remarkable people'' will be granted three wishes, presumably to be fulfilled by zillionaire, clout-heavy and intellectually supercharged TEDsters. As a backup, each winner will also be awarded $100,000. The plan is for the winners, who will be communally nominated and announced later this year, to unveil their wishes at next year's conference, where they will be anointed as ''the most perfect TEDsters we can find,'' Mr. Anderson said. They will also be given a three-year pass to TED (worth $12,000).
 ''We are going to proactively seek them out,'' he added, saying a wish might include the use of a supercomputer to solve a problem. 
 Eve Ensler, creator of ''The Vagina Monologues,'' noted a ratio of men to women at TED heavily weighted to people not involved in such discourses (she was one of seven female speakers of 45 at the conference). But Ms. Ensler, who has been spending much of her time on activism around the world to stop violence against women, was buoyed by the notion of the wishes. ''I'd love to see these kinds of thinkers put their minds to violence against women,'' she said.
 Dr. Martin Seligman, a professor and director of the Positive Psychology Network at the University of Pennsylvania, saw cause for optimism, even in this era of disgraced chief executives and former dot-com princes. ''When 15th-century Florence asked what it should do with its material abundance, it decided to invest in genius and beauty,'' he said. ''That kind of thing only comes once a century. For technology entertainment and design, this is the Florentine moment.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: IT'S A PARTY -- David Hanson's robots know when to smile. (Photo by David Hanson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); ZOOLOGY (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); BASEBALL (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); CARCINOGENS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (63%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (60%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (50%) Design; Science and Technology; TED Conference

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); AOL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); AOL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: STEVE CASE (58%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (58%); SERGEY BRIN (55%); LARRY PAGE (54%) Richard Saul Wurman; Patricia Leigh Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (69%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



76 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: American Jobs, Indian Jobs and the Global Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''30 Little Turtles,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Feb. 29), about the outsourcing of jobs to India: 
 Mr. Friedman is wrong. I have been in human resources for more than 20 years, and I know that the types of positions we are exporting to India are not ''low-wage, low-prestige'' jobs.
 I have interviewed hundreds of local candidates with college degrees who simply cannot find positions in information technology. Any one of them would be very happy to have a job like the ones we are exporting to India.
 We once told workers displaced from manufacturing jobs that re-training for the technology industries would be their salvation. What field should I tell unemployed Americans to train for now?

ROBYN WHITE
Richmond, Va., March 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFSHORING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); LAYOFFS (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); HUMAN RESOURCES (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor; Wages and Salaries

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%) Robyn White; Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (50%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%) India

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



77 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: American Jobs, Indian Jobs and the Global Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''30 Little Turtles,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Feb. 29): Irrespective of one's views on outsourcing, there is undeniable value in the opportunity that overseas call centers present for Americans to shape more positive impressions overseas. 
 Cell center employees in India most likely return home to discuss their experiences with Americans at the dinner table. In our individual interactions with call center employees, we should keep in mind our ability to create more tangible impressions than those that may be fed by local media. 
 In the age of outsourcing, every American who connects to an overseas call center becomes an ambassador.

K. A. FRASER
Medford, Mass., March 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); CALL CENTERS (87%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%) K A Fraser; Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



78 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: American Jobs, Indian Jobs and the Global Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''30 Little Turtles,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Feb. 29):
 The avenues of consumption have increased in India, not jobs. The developing world stays primarily a market, not an investment destination, for Western corporations. And attrition of traditional jobs comes as a condition of globalization. 
 For the educated, English-speaking Indian elite, the alternative is worse. They have traded jobs for more wants. 
 Call center work, in particular, offers neither a career nor growth. A salary of $200 a month is not enough to fulfill middle-class aspirations, even in India. The 20-year-olds who work there are not adding to family income; they are being subsidized by it. 
 As Americans debate outsourcing, then, they might want to focus on the cause rather than the effect. The question is, Are Americans prepared to stay wedded to the global economy in good times and bad? The problem is that it is too late to ask that.

PARITOSH BANSAL
Los Angeles, Feb. 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); OUTSOURCING (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (55%) Labor

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%) Paritosh Bansal; Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%) India

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



79 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Kerry's Moment, and the Battle in November

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 John Kerry's victories on Super Tuesday (front page, March 3) are a snap compared with what it will take for him to win the general election.
 His strategy has to be to run a cost-effective campaign. He doesn't have President Bush's war chest.
 In the months leading up to November, Senator Kerry should appear on TV, one hour a week, to discuss a single issue: health care, education, jobs, the economy.
 He knows the issues. But he has to talk about them in a way that will show he can deal with them effectively. He should not waste money on meaningless sound bites. He should not answer scurrilous charges dug up by his opponent to tarnish his image.
 He should aim where the Bush administration is weak: its lack of credibility on the reason for war, its tax cuts for the wealthy, the mounting deficit.
 Whether you call these hours fireside chats or town hall meetings, Senator Kerry should talk to the people and get his message out. He should take the lead and let Mr. Bush do the answering, if he can.

SARA NICOLL
New York, March 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%) Presidential Election of 2004; Television; Political Advertising; Election Issues

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Sara Nicoll; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



80 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Kerry's Moment, and the Battle in November

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 John Kerry's Super Tuesday celebration speech (front page, March 3) was a thorough listing of what should be the major issues of the coming campaign: foreign policy, internationalism, the economy, jobs, the danger of using wedge issues to divide the electorate and amend the Constitution and more.
 But there was one notable omission, the role of race in American life. Surely one of the main reasons white men vote Republican has to do with race. Surely race has played a major role in the decline of the Democratic base. Surely the fact that blacks overwhelmingly vote for the Democratic Party has to do with race. 
 Howard Dean understood this, even if he used an unfortunate example to raise the issue. 
 John Kerry is an intelligent and able candidate; here's hoping that he does not neglect the problem of race in America and addresses it forthrightly. It remains one of the most important and troubling issues in American life.

MICHAEL WRESZIN
New York, March 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; Primaries

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%) Michael Wreskin; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004



81 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Disney Chairman Has Task Of Quelling the Unrest
George J. Mitchell has just assumed one of the most challenging jobs in corporate America, chairman of the Walt Disney Company.
 But rather than running the company, Mr. Mitchell, a former United States senator who helped broker a peace agreement in Northern Ireland, sees his main job as negotiating among factions of disgruntled investors, other board members and Michael D. Eisner. Mr. Eisner, the chief executive, lost the chairman's title in the wake of a no-confidence vote at the shareholder meeting. [Page A1.]

Telefonica in Talks With BellSouth
Shares of BellSouth rose after Telefonica, the Spanish telecommunications giant, said that it was in talks to buy BellSouth's Latin American assets for as much as $6 billion. The negotiations come at a time BellSouth is looking to finance its share of the $41 billion that its joint venture, Cingular Wireless, has offered to acquire the AT&T Wireless Group. [C3.]

Intel Narrows Its Sales Estimate
Intel narrowed its first-quarter revenue estimate, saying its microprocessor business performed at the low end of seasonal patterns because of a slight oversupply in Asia. [C3.]

Overseas Trials Create Quandary
CV Therapeutics, a small biotechnology company, tested a new drug for angina overseas and is now struggling to decide what, if anything, the company and other concerns owe patients who served as test subjects. [A1.]

I.M.F.'s Managing Director Resigns
The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Horst Kohler, resigned from that post to become Germany's next president after his nomination by a coalition of conservative parties. [A4.]

Hollinger Inc. to Avoid Default
Hollinger International agreed to lend the $7.4 million its parent company needs to make a bond payment and avert a default. [C5.]

Europe's Central Bank Stands Pat
Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, and the bank's governing council brushed aside pleas by German and French leaders to cut interest rates to halt the rise of the euro. Mr. Trichet said, ''While growth has been relatively modest so far, both external and domestic factors give reason to expect a strengthening of the recovery through 2004 and beyond.'' Analysts said his firm tone seemed to rule out a rate cut for a few months. [World Business, Section W.]

Russian Oil Tycoon's Manager Dies
A British lawyer who oversaw the business interests of Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the jailed former chief executive of Yukos and Russia's richest man, died Wednesday in a helicopter crash in southern England. [A11.]

Stocks Await Employment Report
Investors bought technology shares but made few other commitments ahead of the government's February employment report. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 21.75 points, to 2,055.11, and the S.&P. 500 rose 3.84 points, to 1,154.87. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 5.11 points, to 10,588. [C5.]

Debt Grew 8.1 Percent Last Year
The Federal Reserve reported that the nation's debt, including both household and government borrowing, grew 8.1 percent last year, a pace not seen since the late 1980's. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,588.00 down 5.11Nasdaq composite -- 2,055.11 up 21.7510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.02% down 0.03The euro -- $1.2188 up 0.0003The dollar -- 111.06 yen up 0.99Graphs: ''TODAY'' shows unemployment figures from August 2003 to January 2004 and consumer borrowing figures from July 2003 to December 2003.UnemploymentFebruary figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +5.6%Consumer BorrowingJanuary figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +$5.0 billionGraph tracks the daily closing price of BellSouth shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BONDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (72%); EURO (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (69%); LAWYERS (67%); MICROPROCESSORS (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (67%); CONSERVATISM (64%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); DEATHS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); HELICOPTERS (50%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (94%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (90%); AT&T INC (83%); HOLLINGER INC (66%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%); INTEL CORP (56%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (53%); OAO NK YUKOS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%); T (NYSE) (83%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (88%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (58%); HORST KOHLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); GERMANY (92%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (75%); FRANCE (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); LATIN AMERICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



82 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: Companies Facing Ethical Issue As Drugs Are Tested Overseas

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Dr. Louis G. Lange, a cardiologist and the chief executive of a small biotechnology company, has a new drug that, if approved, will be the first new treatment for angina in a quarter-century.
 Like many drug companies, Dr. Lange's, CV Therapeutics of Palo Alto, Calif., tested its new product overseas, where studies go faster because it is easy to find patients who are eager to participate. 
 But the company's testing is nearing its end, and Dr. Lange is faced with an ethical quandary: Is his company obliged to make the drug available to the patients in poor countries like Russia who took part in the studies? 
 As companies increasingly test new drugs in other countries, they are struggling to decide what, if anything, they owe the patients who served as test subjects. Some companies have chosen not to sell their drugs in the countries where they were tested; others have marketed their drugs there, but few patients in those countries can afford them. 
 ''This is something that the biotech industry, as it develops more and more drugs, will have to come to grips with,'' said Carl B. Feldbaum, president of the Biotechnology Industry Organization. ''It's not that we are lacking compassion, but the economics are tough.''
 The issue is especially difficult when it comes to drugs, like Dr. Lange's, that do not save lives but can vastly improve the quality of life. Nobody knows for sure how many patients in other countries have had to forgo drugs that improved their lives when clinical trials ended, and companies do not give out patients' names, to protect their privacy. But the issue is very much on the minds of company researchers and executives. 
 Ethicists say that they, too, are troubled but that their field has reached no consensus on what companies should do. 
 ''Do we have an obligation to everyone in the trial or to everyone in the community, the province, the nation, the region of the world?'' asked Dr. Ruth Faden, the director of the Phoebe R. Berman Bioethics Institute at Johns Hopkins University. ''We haven't really figured this out.''
 Yet, Dr. Faden said, ''many physician investigators feel uncomfortable with the idea of using patients in studies and then not being able to continue to help them when the trial ends.''
 ''We seem to hit a wall of moral unease,'' she said. ''In the end, I'm not sure exactly where we ought to end up.'' 
 Companies must make business decisions about where to market their drugs, figuring out whether they can earn enough money to justify applying for approval, setting up business offices and hiring a sales force. If they decide not to market a drug in a given country, they are unlikely to provide it to patients there free of charge. To provide a drug for what medical professionals call compassionate use, companies must set up a distribution system, train doctors to administer the drugs, monitor patients for adverse effects and track the results.
 Whether to undertake a compassionate-use program for drugs that improve the quality of life but do not prolong it -- ranolazine, the drug CV Therapeutics has developed, is one example -- poses ''a delicate question,'' said Tony Plohoros, a spokesman for Merck, a company that has systems to distribute lifesaving drugs in poor countries where there is a need. 
 The issue is especially difficult for small companies, like Dr. Lange's, that as yet have no products on the market.
 Dr. Lange says he is torn. CV Therapeutics, he noted, is a business, not a charity. It cannot afford to set up a marketing system in countries where few can buy the drug, or a distribution system to give its drugs away. ''We're not Merck,'' he said. ''But we are concerned.''
 There is no question that the patients who participated in the company's studies are needy. Chronic angina has made their lives miserable. Terrifying, crushing chest pains can come on without warning and often persist despite bypass surgery, angioplasty and medications.
 Ranolazine can make a difference. It changes the heart's metabolism, allowing it to operate more efficiently. The company's studies found that it can cut the frequency of angina attacks nearly in half.
 The Food and Drug Administration has told CV Therapeutics that the drug is ''approvable,'' if it can provide a bit more data. On Jan. 21, The Journal of the American Medical Association published the company's study along with a laudatory editorial, reporting that ranolazine helped patients whose angina was crippling despite standard therapies.
 For now, most patients in Russia and the other countries can receive ranolazine as part of large safety studies that follow the trials on the drug's effectiveness. But those studies will end, and Dr. Lange says he does not relish taking the drug away from people being helped by it. 
 In the United States, patients who participate in clinical trials often continue to receive the drug being tested until it is approved. After that, they can buy it or, if they cannot afford it, apply to special programs that most companies offer to help people who could not otherwise get drugs they need. 
 But with the exception of AIDS drugs, which companies provide free or at low cost to patients in poor countries, there is no industry consensus about what to do internationally, especially when drugs are not lifesaving. And even when companies market their drugs in poor countries, they tend not to set up a system to give the drugs away to study subjects after a clinical trial ends.
 The issue has grown more pressing as more companies conduct international studies to get enough patients. In recent years, they have increasingly turned to countries in Eastern and Central Europe.
 CV Therapeutics, for example, tested its drug in two large studies involving 1,014 patients, including about 365 from North America and Western Europe and close to 600 from Russia and Eastern Europe.
 Dr. Eugene Braunwald of Harvard Medical School, who is chairman of a not-for-profit academic group that runs clinical trials in cardiology, said fewer and fewer American patients participated. ''We are enrolling on average half as many patients in the U.S. now as compared to five years ago,''Dr. Braunwald said.
 One reason, he said, is that doctors do not want to take the time to enroll patients and to comply with the detailed testing and reporting a study requires.
 Business in Eastern and Central Europe is expanding rapidly, with American companies that conduct clinical trials opening offices there and local entrepreneurs setting up their own businesses.
 Covance, a large American company that conducts trials for drug companies under contract, opened offices in Russia and Poland a few years ago and in Hungary last year. 
 ''The standards of medicine are high'' in those countries, said Dr. Alan Wood, Covance's general manager for global clinical development services, and it is easy to recruit patients. 
 Richard Leach, the American business manager of Russian Clinical Trials, a six-person company in St. Petersburg, Russia, explained the appeal of doing studies there. The doctors are well trained but earn as little as a few hundred dollars a month, Mr. Leach said, and they are eager for the money they can get as clinical trial investigators. Doctors even want to be study monitors, traveling to medical offices to be sure protocols are followed. That job, done mostly by nurses in the United States, pays much more than Russian doctors earn for treating patients.
 Another incentive is the medical equipment supplied by drug companies. CV Therapeutics, for example, gave its Russian doctors treadmills for exercise testing, and sent technicians to their offices to teach them how to do the test. ''That was a perk for them,'' Dr. Lange said.
 Patients in other countries are also more eager to take part in clinical trials. In the United States, companies have to advertise heavily to find patients. In Russia, Mr. Leach said, word of mouth usually suffices. Because the government does not pay for prescription drugs and few people can afford to buy them, the patients see clinical trials as their best chance for medications.
 ''Eastern European and Russian people tend to be very compliant,'' Mr. Leach said. ''Because they are getting medical treatment they couldn't afford and getting Western medicine, they will follow the trial and they will do whatever is asked. If they have to keep a diary, they do it. If they have to make office visits, they do it.''
 Companies like Covance and Russian Clinical Trials say it is not their business to ask what happens when the studies end. ''What our clients choose to do is not our affair,'' Dr. Wood of Covance said.
 Ethicists acknowledge that companies are businesses and accountable to investors.
 Drug companies, said Dr. Lawrence O. Gostin, the director of the Center for Law and the Public's Health at Georgetown and Johns Hopkins Universities, should not be seen as ''the deep pocket that helps everyone.'' 
 But on the other hand, Dr. Gostin said, there is something troubling about ''parachute research,'' in which a company drops into a country, conducts its research and then leaves.
 ''It raises the question of what ethical obligation, if any, there might be to give back and make sure there is access to the drug after the trials are over,'' Dr. Gostin said.
 The participants in a study take a risk to help a company determine if its drug is safe and effective, he said, and ''it seems to me that there is an ethical obligation to give back.''
 As for Dr. Lange, he said that the patients enrolled in his company's trials in Eastern and Central Europe might eventually have to give up their ranolazine. But he comforts himself, he said, by remembering that for now, they are still getting the drug as part of the company's safety studies.
 ''I haven't had to bite the bullet yet,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Louis G. Lange, the chief executive of CV Therapeutics, which has been testing its new angina drug in Russia and other foreign countries. (Photo by Steve Forrest for The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); ETHICS (91%); CARDIOLOGY (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); CLINICAL TRIALS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BIOETHICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (77%); SALES FORCE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); ADVICE COLUMNS (61%) Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Tests and Testing; Research; Ethics; Heart; Angina; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Ranolazine (Drug); Volunteers; Doctors; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

ORGANIZATION: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (82%) Cv Therapeutics (Co); Biotechnology Industry Organization; Russian Clinical Trials (Co)

PERSON: Louis G (Dr) Lange; Carl B Feldbaum; Ruth (Dr) Faden; Richard Leach; Gina Kolata

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%) Russia; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



83 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Nation's Debt Grew at Rapid Pace in 2003

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Americans, it seems, are feeling optimistic -- or maybe fatalistic -- about their financial future. The Federal Reserve reported yesterday that the nation's debt, including both household and government borrowing, grew last year at a pace not seen since the late 1980's. 
 According to the quarterly federal funds report, the total national debt, excluding the obligations of banks and other financial institutions, grew 8.1 percent last year, its fastest pace since 1988. 
 Households threw caution to the wind, mortgaging and remortgaging their homes and expanding their debt by 10.4 percent, the biggest percentage gain since 1987. Federal government borrowing expanded by 10.9 percent, the fastest rate since 1992. Only businesses held back. Still hobbled by credit overhangs from the investment boom of the late 1990's, corporate borrowing inched ahead by 3 percent.
 Over all, the nation's debt grew by some $1.7 trillion last year, to $22.4 trillion, the Fed said. The federal government accounted for about 18 percent of the total, local governments for roughly 7 percent, households for 42 percent and businesses for 33 percent. 
 Creditors abroad financed about a third of the year's borrowing, equivalent to roughly 5 percent of the nation's total output of products and services.
 A deep recession provided a sour end to the 1980's credit bender, when huge federal deficits fueled double-digit annual growth in the federal debt. But economists are not willing to call how the current borrowing binge might play out. 
 ''There's a time-bomb issue,'' said Allen Sinai of Decision Economics, a consulting firm. ''There are potential adverse consequences, but we don't know when.''
 Even the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, declared himself at a loss to explain how a corrective could be applied to the current financial imbalances. ''Can market forces incrementally defuse a worrisome buildup in a nation's current account deficit and net external debt before a crisis more abruptly does so?'' Mr. Greenspan asked in a speech to the Economic Club of New York on Tuesday.
 Debt can hobble the economy. Mr. Sinai -- who was an author of a recent study highlighting the dangers of ballooning budget deficits, along with Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, and Peter Orszag, a Brookings Institution economist -- said that household balance sheets seemed sound only because the price of household assets, like homes and stocks, were high and interest rates were low. 
 But if interest rates were to rise sharply, for example because businesses started borrowing again or a depreciating dollar primed inflationary pressures, ''the picture could turn nasty in a hurry,'' Mr. Sinai said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); BONDS (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (70%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%) Credit; Credit; Government Bonds; Local Government; Consumer Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); PETER ORSZAG (58%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



84 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Hungary Eager and Uneasy Over New Status

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: SARVAR, Hungary 

 BODY:
Few places have witnessed the ebb and flow of the global economy as much as this genteel spa town in western Hungary.
 After the Iron Curtain crumbled in 1989, Austrian, German, and other European investors flocked to this area, just 77 miles from Vienna. Austrian retirees came to soak in Sarvar's thermal springs; jobs blossomed and sprawling industrial parks sprouted in the pastureland outside town.
 In 2001, Sarvar rejoiced when the world's largest contract maker of electronics equipment, Flextronics, announced that it would assemble the Microsoft Xbox game console in its factory on the outskirts of town. The assignment, which created 1,000 new jobs, hitched Sarvar's star to Microsoft just as it was betting billions of dollars on the market for video games. 
 Barely a year later, Flextronics shut down the Xbox line and moved production to southern China, where wages are a fraction of those in Hungary. ''Everybody in town thought it was the end of the world,'' said Humphrey Porter, the president of Flextronics Europe.
 But thanks to other contracts -- including, in a twist, one to assemble TV sets for a Chinese company -- employment at Flextronics today is higher than when Microsoft was a customer. 
 On May 1, Hungary and nine other countries will join the European Union, creating a trading bloc stretching from Ireland to Russia, with 455 million people and more than $10 trillion in output. For Sarvar and other towns just east of Western Europe, the expansion will merely formalize what is already a fully integrated relationship.
 But what Hungarians are worrying about these days is their place in a global economy, where the stiffest competition for jobs and foreign investment is likely to come not from new rivalry with Poland or the Czech Republic, but from Asia, particularly China, which has been challenging Hungary for a while.
 Paradoxically, Europe's new members are joining the union to lift their living standard to the affluent levels of the West; yet in so doing, they are sacrificing the labor advantages that transformed them from sclerotic Communist states into upwardly mobile market economies.
 The contradictions do not end there: China, the prime beneficiary of rising wages in central Europe, is starting to return the favor, by producing some of its exports bound for Europe in these countries, as it did at the Flextronics factory.
 ''Hungary cannot, and should not, compete with China on wages,'' Peter Spanyik, the deputy chief executive of the Hungarian Investment and Trade Development Agency. ''But China can be a strategic partner.''
 The economic challenge posed by China will loom large after the European Union's expansion, said Heather Grabbe, deputy director of the Center for European Reform, a research group in London. ''It could become the new demon, rather than, say, Romania.''
 While the United States fears a drain in jobs to the Chinese market, China is more of an abstract threat to Western Europe, given that the European Union has enjoyed little growth, in employment or anything else. Ms. Grabbe said that the union still worries more ''about the giant sucking sound from Eastern Europe.''
 Mr. Porter noted that Europe still had a rich tradition of innovation, exemplified by corporate brands like Nokia, Alcatel, Ericsson and Siemens.
 ''China will not eat the lunch of the rest of the world,'' he said. ''It will eat some lunches, because it is such a vast market. But there is enough innovation elsewhere that China need not eat all of them.''
 Another factor damping China's impact in Europe are the strong unions and labor regulations in France, Germany and other countries, which hamper companies from moving jobs as fast as their American rivals.
 ''It's much more difficult in Europe to make these things happen quickly,'' said Jean Lebreton, a director at the Boston Consulting Group in Shanghai, who has studied China's effect on the United States and Germany.
 Few politicians here have threatened trade sanctions against China; indeed, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany and other leaders pay regular visits to China to champion big projects, like the magnetic levitation train in Shanghai that was engineered by Germans.
 German giants like BMW, DaimlerChrysler and the chip-maker Infineon have all established major operations in China. One reason Germany's exports have bounced back strongly since last year's recession, economists say, is its sales of machinery to the hungry Chinese market.
 China's ascendancy could have payoffs in another way for Europe's newest members. Hungary's prime minister, Peter Medgyessy, led a delegation to China recently to promote his country as a low-cost manufacturing base for Chinese companies eager to export to the European Union.
 His sales pitch was simple: Europe, after May, will be a single market. Chinese companies, by producing all or a large part of their products within the expanded union, could avoid costly import duties.
 ''We expect more and more Chinese companies to come here,'' Mr. Spanyik said, noting that the Bank of China recently established a branch in Budapest. 
 It is the not the first time Hungarians have done this. ''Hungary billed itself as the back door to Europe for U.S. companies in the early 90's, and it was highly successful,'' said Laszlo Czirjak, a Hungarian-American investor who owns a stake in an electronics company in neighboring Slovenia.
 Indeed, Budapest already has a thriving Chinese community, the largest in central Europe with an estimated 20,000 people. Chinese students started coming here during the Communist era to study. After Hungary opened up in the late 1980's, Chinese traders turned Budapest into a hub to sell shoes, garments and other Asian goods from Poland to the Balkans.
 Last year, an Austrian real estate developer gathered 450 of these merchants together in a vast granite-and-glass complex known as Asia Center. With gurgling fountains, glass elevators, and a shop named O.K., Shanghai, it has the glitzy ambience of a Hong Kong shopping mall.
 Zhu San Bao, a trader from Shanghai who owns two shoe shops in the center, has lived in Budapest since 1991. He said he had no plans to move elsewhere after Hungary joins the European Union.
 ''I'm a businessman, I like it here,'' Mr. Zhu said, puffing on a Dunhill cigarette. ''Hungary is a good base for selling to Italy, Spain, and Germany. Joining the E.U. won't change that.''
 For Chinese companies who want to sell more than sneakers or plastic lanterns, Hungary's membership will help significantly.
 Flextronics has signed up a Chinese television set maker, TCL International, as the first of what it hopes will be many Chinese electronics makers to use its assembly lines in Hungary. In 2002, TCL acquired the assets of Schneider Technology, a failed German electronics company.
 Today, Schneider television sets roll off the lines at the Flextronics factory in Sarvar, alongside Hewlett-Packard printers and Alcatel telephones. Flextronics employs 12,000 workers in Hungary, 2,000 more than when it was making the Xbox here.
 ''The Chinese have done their analysis quite well,'' said Peter Baumgartner, a vice president at Flextronics, explaining why TCL would choose to make TV sets in Hungary. 
 Trucks from Sarvar, which once faced 12-hour waits at the Austrian border, now wait three to four hours. After May 1, the border controls will disappear entirely.
 In the global competition for jobs and investment, Europe's expanding eastern borders may give it an edge over America. While wages in Hungary and the Czech Republic are higher than in China, and rising, they remain far lower than those in the United States.
 Moreover, the migration of people from east to west could help shake loose the calcified labor markets in Germany and France, according to some experts. While most Western countries will be allowed to restrict immigration for a few years, Europe will be a unified labor market by 2011.
 ''The inclusion of these new countries into Western Europe will make the euro zone more competitive,'' said Marc Faber, a Swiss money manager who works in Hong Kong. ''Europe's main problem has been labor rigidity. These new workers will break the unions' backs.''
 An often skeptical market analyst, Mr. Faber said he was rather optimistic about Europe's prospects. The European Monetary Union stimulated internal trade and buoyed the performance of Spain and other newer members, he said.
 Europe also has political stability, which may prove elusive in China over the long term. Even now, he noted, the prospect of a conflict in the Taiwan Straits casts a shadow over relations with China.
 ''On most issues, Europe and the U.S. will be on the same side,'' Mr. Faber said. ''But there is potential for conflict with China. If you're a global company, you may feel more comfortable having some of your plants in Eastern Europe, which is basically like Western Europe, rather than in China.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The assembly lines at the Flextronics factory in Sarvar, Hungary. As the European Union prepares to expand, new jobs are being created. (Photo by Bela Doka/Anzenberger for the New York Times)(pg. W1)
 One of the Chinese markets in Budapest, which has the largest Chinese community in central Europe. (Photo by Bela Doka/Anzenberger for the New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); COMPUTER GAMES (75%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); ELECTRONICS (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); TRENDS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Foreign Investments ; Labor; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SOUTH CHINA (79%) EUROPE (99%); HUNGARY (98%); CHINA (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); AUSTRIA (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); POLAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); ROMANIA (79%) Hungary; Europe; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



85 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32; INSIDE ART

LENGTH: 892 words

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

New Center In Peekskill
 By summer there will be yet another place along the Hudson River to see contemporary art. The Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art, about a half-hour south of Dia: Beacon, is to open on June 12 in a 12,500-square-foot former home-improvement store on Main Street in Peekskill, N.Y.
 The center is a project of Marc Straus, a Westchester County oncologist, and his wife, Livia, a theologian. They have been collecting cutting-edge contemporary art for 40 years.
 ''We will start by using our collection, but the real thrust of the space will be to use art for education,'' Mrs. Straus said. ''We are planning to foster the work of emerging artists.'' The center will also have an artist-in-residence program and lectures series. Sandra Tomboloni, an installation artist from Florence, Italy, will be the first artist in residence.
 Putting art spaces in economically troubled towns has been a successful formula for institutions like Mass MOCA, which opened in 1999 in economically depressed North Adams, Mass., and Dia: Beacon, which opened last spring.
 ''In the early 90's Peekskill was nearly abandoned; it was in bad economic shape,'' Dr. Straus said. ''Over the years there has been an amazing renaissance.''
 After nearly three years in the making, the center received the certificate of occupancy for its building just this week. Slowly, the Strauses are creating a nonprofit institution that will charge admission (they haven't decided how much), have a board of directors (still in formation) and present programs (to be determined).
 The space, with its 24-foot ceilings and a mezzanine 32 feet deep, will have two permanent installations. Thomas Hirschhorn's ''Laundrette'' is an installation of 16 television monitors set in faux washers and dryers. On the screens are everyday acts, like shaving and eating, interspersed with scenes of abuse and human suffering, like burials or mass shootings. The other permanent installation is Helene Aylon's ''Earth Ambulance: '82, '92, '02,'' which chronicles the artist's cross-country journey to salvage earth contaminated by radioactive waste.
 Also on view will be ''Symbolic Space,'' a show exploring the blurring boundaries between art and architecture. In addition to the work of emerging artists, the show will also include more established figures like Dan Flavin and Frank Stella.

Gift for Whitney
 Just as curators at the Whitney Museum of American Art are frantically installing the giant biennial, which opens on Thursday, the institution has announced a gift of 456 objects by the Los Angeles artist Ed Ruscha. The acquisition includes a total of 343 vintage photographs, prints from Mr. Ruscha's books and his contact sheets, and makes the Whitney a principal repository for Mr. Ruscha's work.
 Part of the acquisition is a donation from Mr. Ruscha. Most, however, is a gift from the Leonard and Evelyn Lauder Foundation, with additional support from Thomas Tuft, a trustee who is chairman of the museum's photography committee, and his wife, Diane. For years Mr. Lauder has been targeting areas of weakness in the museum's permanent collection and donating crucial works to fill these gaps or rallying support from his fellow trustees.
 ''Ruscha is an artist who has been of continual interest to the Whitney,'' said Adam D. Weinberg, the museum's director. The Whitney first exhibited Mr. Ruscha's work in 1967 at one of its then annual exhibitions of contemporary painting.
 While the museum has three major paintings by Mr. Ruscha -- one from the 60's, one from the 80's and one from the 90's -- along with several drawings and prints, it had none of his photographs until now. The early photographs are a particularly important part of his oeuvre, Mr. Weinberg said, because they include many themes and styles explored in later work.
 The gift, purchased from Larry Gagosian, the Manhattan dealer who represents Mr. Ruscha, includes all facets of the artist's photographic works. There are original prints from books like ''Twentysix Gasoline Stations'' (1963) and ''Various Small Fires and Milk'' (1964). There are also several photographs that have never been published, including 16 images that were not included in ''Twentysix Gasoline Stations.'' 
 The acquisition also includes more than 300 vintage photographs that Mr. Ruscha took on a seven-month European tour in 1961. He visited Austria, Britain, France, Greece, Italy, Spain and Yugoslavia, where he photographed motifs like typography, signage and graphics that feature prominently in his work.
 The museum is planning a show of the works that is to open on June 24 (with a catalog). It will coincide with an exhibition of Mr. Ruscha's drawings.

A Reopening Delayed
 The reopening of the Noguchi Museum in Long Island City, Queens, has been delayed two months. The museum was originally to reopen on April 17 after its $6.8 million renovation. Now the date is June 12.
 ''We needed to refine some details like the window installations and the flooring,'' said Jenny Dixon, its director. ''Noguchi is all about details.''
 When the museum does open, its 12,000-square-foot space will have room for special exhibitions. Timed to its opening will be ''Isamu Noguchi: Sculptural Design,'' organized by the Vitra Design Museum in Weil am Rhein, Germany. The artist Robert Wilson is designing the show's installation.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''France,'' a 1961 photograph by Ed Ruscha acquired by the Whitney. (Photo by Whitney Museum of American Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (64%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (62%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (60%); HOME CENTERS (57%); RELIGION (56%) Art; Photography

ORGANIZATION: Hudson Valley Center For Contemporary Art (Peekskill, Ny); Whitney Museum of American Art (NYC); Lauder, Leonard and Evelyn, Foundation

PERSON: Carol Vogel; Marc (Dr) Straus; Livia Straus; Ed Ruscha

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



86 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Shift by Chinese Premier
Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, presiding over his first session of Parliament, vowed to cool China's surging economy and to help the hundreds of millions of people left behind in the boom of the last decade. PAGE A6

3 U.S. Muslims Convicted
A federal judge convicted three American Muslims of conspiring to help a Pakistani group wage ''violent jihad'' against Indian forces in Kashmir and possibly American troops in Afghanistan. PAGE A18

A New Human Ancestor
After years of studying fossil bones and teeth, scientists have added a species to the family tree of human ancestors: a primate that lived more than five million years ago in what is now Ethiopia. PAGE A14

Curbs on Football Recruiting
Following accusations of rape involving football players and recruits, the University of Colorado announced sweeping changes to provide close supervision of its program. SPORTSFRIDAY, PAGE D1

Gay Marriage Debate Spreads
The growing fight over same-sex unions reached New York City as dozens of gay and lesbian couples seeking marriage licenses were turned away. PAGE B1


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); MARRIAGE (73%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (71%); JUDGES (71%); RELIGION (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) KASHMIR (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



87 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Scares

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The annual report of the Social Security system's trustees reveals a system in pretty good financial shape. In fact, it would take only modest injections of money to maintain that system's current benefit levels for at least the next 75 years. Other reports, however, appear to portray a system in deep financial trouble. For example, a 2002 Treasury study, described on Tuesday in The New York Times, claims that Social Security and Medicare are $44 trillion in the red. What's the truth?
 Here's a hint: while even right-wing politicians insist in public that they want to save Social Security, the ideologues shaping their views are itching for an excuse to dismantle the system. So you have to read alarming reports generated by people who work at ideologically driven institutions -- a list that now, alas, includes the U.S. Treasury -- with great care. 
 First, two words -- ''and Medicare'' -- make a huge difference. According to the Treasury study, only 16 percent of that $44 trillion shortfall comes from Social Security. Second, the supposed shortfall in both programs comes mainly from projections about the distant future; 62 percent of the combined shortfall comes after 2077.
 So does the Treasury report show a looming Social Security crisis? No.
 Social Security's problem, such as it is, is a matter of demography: as the population ages, the number of retirees will rise faster than the number of workers. As a result, benefit costs will rise by about 2 percent of G.D.P. over the next 30 years, and creep up slowly thereafter. By comparison, making the Bush tax cuts permanent would reduce revenue by at least 2.5 percent of G.D.P., starting now. That -- combined with the fact that Social Security, unlike the rest of the federal government, is currently running a surplus -- is why the Bush tax cuts are a much bigger problem for the nation's fiscal future than the Social Security shortfall.
 Medicare, though often lumped in with Social Security, is a different program facing different problems. The projected rise in Medicare expenses is mainly driven not by demography, but by the rising cost of medical care, which in turn mainly reflects medical progress, which allows doctors to treat a wider range of conditions.
 If this trend continues -- which is by no means certain when we are considering the very long run -- we may face a real long-term dilemma that involves all medical care, not just care for retirees, and is as much moral as economic. It may eventually be the case that providing all Americans with the full advantages of modern medicine will force the government to raise much more money than it now does. Yet not providing that care will mean watching poor and middle-class Americans die early or suffer a greatly reduced quality of life because they can't afford full medical treatment.
 But this dilemma will be there regardless of what we do to Social Security. It's not even clear that we should try to resolve the dilemma now. I'm all for taking the long view; when the administration makes budget projections for only five years to hide known costs just a few years further out, that's an outrage. By all means, let's plan ahead. But let's set some limits. When people issue ominous warnings about the cost of Medicare after 2077, my question is, Why should fiscal decisions today reflect the possible cost of providing generations not yet born with medical treatments not yet invented?
 The biggest risk now facing Social Security is political. Will those who hate the system use scare tactics and fuzzy math to bring it down?
 After Alan Greenspan's call for cuts in Social Security benefits, Republican members of Congress declared that the answer is to create private retirement accounts. It's amazing that they are still peddling this snake oil; it's even more amazing that journalists continue to let them get away with it. Yesterday in The Wall Street Journal, a writer judiciously declared that ''personal accounts alone won't cure Social Security's ills.'' I guess that's true; similarly, eating doughnuts alone won't cause you to lose weight. Why is it so hard to say clearly that privatization would worsen, not improve, Social Security's finances?
 Should we consider modest reforms that reduce the expenses or widen the revenue base of Social Security? Sure. But beware of those who claim that we must destroy the system in order to save it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); TAX LAW (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%) Social Security (US); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Social Security (US)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (56%) George W (Pres) Bush; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



88 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36; ART REVIEW

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: The Beauty of the Pacific, Enshrined and Exploited

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
Like many thematic surveys of contemporary art, ''Paradise Now? Contemporary Art From the Pacific'' at the Asia Society circles its organizing theme erratically. It alternates between the substantial and the flimsy, the revelatory and the merely didactic, art that argues its case directly and art whose intended (if not actual) effect is supplied primarily by wall labels.
 Organized by Melissa Chiu, curator of contemporary Asian and Asian-American art at the Asia Society, the show nonetheless reflects an important development: the new awareness of Pacific, or Polynesian, cultures in the art and life of the region, most of all in New Zealand, the area's largest island and an economic hub. Of the show's 16 artists, 12 were born or now live in New Zealand; others live in Hawaii, Samoa or New Caledonia. 
 Art has played no small role in this attitudinal shift, as outlined in an essay by Karen Stevenson, an art professor at the University of Canterbury in Christchurch, New Zealand. 
 Beginning with Captain Cook's voyages of exploration, the area was seen as an incarnation of paradise on earth that was free for the taking by outsiders. The twin process of being at once exploited and exoticized was pervasive, but the histories and mixings of its peoples and cultures vary.
 The British, who settled New Zealand, negotiated a treaty with the Maoris, who have an unusually strong warrior tradition. The treaty has the rare distinction of being enforced. A result is a culture that has been unusually hybrid and officially bilingual almost from first contact. 
 In contrast, the British settled Fiji via India, taking along Indian servants, who evolved into the island's social elite. After a coup by native Fijians in 2000, the Indians, who make up nearly 45 percent of the island's population, have limited political and property rights.
 By the mid-19th century Americans were staking claims in Hawaii, instigating the removal of its royal ruler to make way for the development of the pineapple industry. An especially pernicious aspect of American involvement was the testing of atomic bombs on Bikini Atoll in the Marshall Islands from 1946 to 1958. The inhabitants of the atoll were forced to relocate, but fallout from the initial detonation caused fatalities on nearby islands and established a legacy of birth defects that continues. 
 The artists in ''Paradise Now?'' frequently examine postcolonial conditions by combining indigenous motifs, materials and rituals with well-worn strategies of conceptual art, process art and performance art, as well as post-conceptual painting, sculpture and video. Some results are fresher than others.
 Niki Hastings-McFall, for example, makes familiar but visually luminous leis, the welcoming tourist cliche, by stringing together the small white plastic fish that contain soy sauce at Japanese restaurants in New Zealand. ''Historic Waikiki,'' a multimedia presentation by Downwind Productions (a collaboration between Gaye Chan, a Chinese-born artist living in Hawaii, and Andrea Feeser, a Japanese-born art historian and social critic who teaches at Clemson University in South Carolina), also operates within known formulas. But its droll imitation of a tourism Web site details the dark side of the American presence in Hawaii in memorable detail.
 The show's painters -- Shane Cotton, W. D. Hammond and John Pule, who all live in New Zealand -- both impress and disappoint in their attempts to adapt current pictorial vocabularies. Cy Twombly, New Image painting and Adolph Gottlieb may variously spring to mind when you're in front of these canvases. Yet in all instances, contrasting symbols, myths and history are illuminated by a convincing combination of fine detailing, forthright paint handling and imaginative juxtaposition. 
 Reflecting the importance of the sea and the role of dance in many Pacific cultures, Ken Thaiday (originally from the Torres Strait Islands and now in Australia) concocts elaborate headdresses incorporating the forms of sharks, boats and fishermen. More skeptically, the New Zealand artist Michel Tuffery makes fabulous pointedly self-referential creatures, often used in performances, from cut and welded tin cans. His armored barracuda and yellowfin tuna are made of the cans of fish that are imported because overfishing has reduced the population in local waters. A ferocious, gaudy life-size bull is fastidiously fashioned from tins of corned beef, whose high sodium and fat content has contributed to health problems among the Maori. In a foreign context, the decorative bark of these works is more noticeable than their political bite, but it helps to see them in action on a video of the artists' performances.
 Another New Zealand sculptor, Michael Parekowhai, has lined the Asia Society's entrance with a solid row of shiny fiberglass casts of a large Maori man in typical security-guard garb. At once regal, reassuring and intimidating, these casts suggest contemporary temple figures while reflecting anxieties about terrorist attacks in the United States. 
 The show's standout is ''Native Portraits n. 19897,'' a multiscreen video installation by Lisa Reihana based on 19th-century studio photographs of Maori men, women and families. On a series of small, portrait-sized high-definition screens, Ms. Reihana and her friends assume different poses in dress that is variously native, European or contemporary. Their images shift from still to moving, from black and white to sepia, to a beautiful hand-tinted effect, to full color, and even to abstraction in a series of kaleidoscopic patterns based on figures performing Maori dances, which are also shown whole.
 The traditional Maori fierceness is evident in flashing weapons and exaggerated grimaces (enhanced by ornate tattoos). This stylized hostility is balanced by dances and greeting gestures in which delicately fluttering hands reflect New Zealand's large bird population. On one screen a series of short vignettes enact exchanges between a European photographer and Maori subjects, delineating constantly changing balances of power and effectively shredding any notion of ethnographic truth.
 A beautifully executed examination of the intricacies, intimacies, manipulations and betrayals that underlie relationships built on colonialism, Ms. Reihana's piece is highly specific, universally applicable and utterly legible. However, it is far from the only reason to visit this instructive exhibition.

''Paradise Now? Contemporary Art From the Pacific'' is at the Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-6400, through May 9.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Native Portraits n. 19897'' by Lisa Reihana, a Maori, is a multiscreen video installation included in ''Paradise Now? Contemporary Art From the Pacific,'' at the Asia Society. (Photo by Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); PAINTING (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (69%); RELOCATIONS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); POPULATION SIZE (51%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (50%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (50%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (50%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (93%)

PERSON: Roberta Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND (77%) HAWAII, USA (92%) NEW ZEALAND (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAMOA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); MARSHALL ISLANDS (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



89 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Returning From Iraq, Still Fighting Vietnam

BYLINE: By Sally Satel. 
Sally Satel, a psychiatrist and a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, is co-author of the forthcoming ''One Nation Under Therapy.''

 BODY:
Over the next few months, 130,000 American troops will return home from Iraq. Their arrival will bring joy to their families and gratitude from the nation. It will also renew a debate over post-traumatic stress disorder. The House Veterans' Affairs Committee, for instance, has scheduled hearings on the disorder next week, with a focus on soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Likewise, just as the press has spent a year comparing the invasion of Iraq to Vietnam, it has begun drawing parallels between today's troops and Vietnam veterans, who are believed to suffer from a high rate of war-related psychiatric disorders. 
 But as we try to help the soldiers of Operation Iraqi Freedom meld back into society, it would be a mistake to rely too heavily on the conventional wisdom about Vietnam. What is generally put forth as an established truth -- that roughly one-third of returnees from Vietnam suffered psychological problems -- is at best highly debatable. 
 That much-cited estimate comes from the National Vietnam Veterans Readjustment Study, released in 1990 by the Veterans Administration. It concentrated on post-traumatic stress disorder, a psychiatric condition marked by disabling painful memories, anxiety and phobias after a traumatic event like combat, rape or other extreme threat. It found that 31 percent of soldiers who went to Vietnam, or almost one million troops, succumbed to post-traumatic stress. The count climbed to fully half if one included those given the diagnosis of ''partial'' post-traumatic stress disorder.
 On closer inspection, however, these figures are shaky. After all, only 15 percent of troops in Vietnam were assigned to combat units, so it is odd that 50 percent suffered symptoms of war trauma. True, noncombat jobs like driving trucks put men at risk for deadly ambush, but Army studies on psychiatric casualties during the war found the vast majority of cases referred to field hospitals did not have combat-related stress. Rather, most were sent for medical attention because of substance abuse and behavioral problems unrelated to battle. 
 Moreover, during the years of the most intense fighting in Vietnam, psychiatrists reported that psychiatric casualties numbered between 12 and 15 soldiers per thousand, or a little more than 1 percent. If the 1990 readjustment study is correct, the number afflicted with diagnosable war stress multiplied vastly in the years after the war. Again, it does not add up.
 How to explain the postwar explosion in Vietnam cases? The frequently proffered answer is that the start of the disorder can be delayed for months or years. This belief, however, has no support in epidemiological studies. And consider the striking absence of delayed cases in long-range studies like that of people affected by the Oklahoma City bombing. Such studies have found that symptoms almost always develop within days of the traumatic event and, in about two-thirds of sufferers, fade within a year.
 It is worth noting that the concept of delayed post-traumatic stress was introduced in the early 1970's by a group of psychiatrists led by Robert Jay Lifton, an outspoken opponent of the war. They decided that many former soldiers suffered what was called post-Vietnam syndrome -- marked by ''alienation, depression, an inability to concentrate, insomnia, nightmares, restlessness, uprootedness and impatience with almost any job or course of study'' -- and that this distinguished veterans of Vietnam from those of any other war. 
 While there was little data to back up the existence of this delayed syndrome, the image of the veteran as a walking time bomb was a boon to the antiwar movement, which used it as proof that military aggression destroys minds and annihilates souls. Yes, some veterans suffered the crippling anxiety of chronic post-traumatic stress disorder. But the broad-brush diagnosis of post-Vietnam syndrome also served political ends.
 There are a couple of other reasons to be skeptical. For one, there is an economic incentive to claim suffering. A veteran deemed to be fully disabled by post-traumatic stress disorder can collect $2,000 to $3,000 a month, tax free. More important, perhaps, the syndrome provides a medicalized explanation for many unhappy, but not necessarily traumatized, veterans trying to make sense of their experience. 
 Psychological studies have shown that people tend to reconstruct the past in terms of the present -- they often exaggerate the degree of earlier misfortune if they are feeling bad, or minimize old troubles if they are feeling good. Thus it is vital that researchers corroborate the battlefield events that veterans cite as causes of their post-traumatic stress. Unfortunately, researchers on the 1990 readjustment study did not do the archival legwork to verify the trauma that the veterans reported. Until a better study is done, the ''facts'' on post-Vietnam stress are simply speculation. 
 Some soldiers will return from Iraq and Afghanistan with severe psychological problems, and we must do everything in our power to help them. The vast majority, however, will be able to adjust on their own -- and imposing on them the questionable legacy of Vietnam won't do them any service. As the British psychiatrist Simon Wessely has put it: ''Generals are justly criticized for fighting the last war, not the present one. Psychiatrists should be aware of the same mistake.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (94%); MENTAL ILLNESS (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); VETERANS (90%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (87%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PHOBIAS (77%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (73%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%) Mental Health and Disorders; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Vietnam War; Stress (Human); Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

PERSON: Sally (Dr) Patel

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); VIET NAM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



90 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: A Logjam for Transportation in China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 4 

 BODY:
Strained by rapid economic growth, China's transportation system has bogged down, especially in the last six weeks, causing delays in deliveries of raw materials and raising a serious risk of higher inflation.
 Railroads are so overburdened that power plants in southern China are having trouble getting coal from the north. That and shortages of generating capacity have contributed to brownouts that have forced factories to operate on limited schedules or in the middle of the night.
 Heavy-duty trucks have also become an impediment, as Beijing, alarmed at road damage caused by overloaded trucks, has suddenly clamped down on enforcing cargo weight limits. This forces each truck to make more trips to carry the same amount of cargo. 
 The logjam appears to be most acute in China's ports, where shortages of trucks and railcars are preventing the distribution of shipments arriving from overseas. Mountains of imported iron ore and steel now clog the docks in many of China's biggest ports, forcing ships to wait at anchor as long as a month to make deliveries, at a cost of up to $100,000 a day per vessel just in ship charter fees.
 Notably, even as China seems to be choking on imported commodities like iron ore, steel, coal, aluminum and soybeans, its exports of everything from shoes to furniture to the United States and other foreign markets have been remarkably little affected. That is because such goods move mostly in steel containers on different kinds of trucks, and they pass through special ports that have received considerable investment in recent years.
 Rising freight rates have hurt the competitiveness of some American exports to China, especially agricultural commodities. Shipping rates for grain moving from the Gulf Coast of the United States to China, for example, have climbed to $70 a ton from $18 in the last two years.
 China's boom has also pushed up global commodity prices and freight rates all over the world, including those for American imports --a combination that economists expect to increase inflation slightly in the United States, but not as much as in China because the American economy is more dependent on services.
 Harry Banga, the vice chairman of the Noble Group here, which is one of Asia's largest commodity shipping companies, said his company's vessels were having to wait 4 to 20 days to unload commodities at deepwater Chinese ports. 
 A senior executive at a shipping company with extensive Asian operations said that one of his company's vessels had just waited 33 days to unload at a Chinese port. ''It's a logistical nightmare in China,'' he said. 
 The backlog, which had been mounting, has been acute since late January, when the railroads switched to hauling mostly passengers instead of freight for two weeks before, during and after Chinese New Year, the nation's biggest holiday. 
 Many factories continued operating through the holiday this year, struggling to keep up with demand, and the resulting backlogs have not been cleared.
 In many ways, the problem represents a collision between China's booming private sector, which is benefiting from heavy foreign and domestic investment, and the older and less prosperous planned economy. China's bulk commodities ports are mostly owned by municipal governments, which have made limited investments, although some factories also have their own docks.
 ''Bulk terminals have generally not been that sexy,'' said Tim Huxley, the managing director of Clarkson Asia, a big ship broker here. 
 By contrast, multinational companies have built most of China's modern and highly efficient container ports, which handle the 40-foot steel boxes that carry most of China's exports -- from shoes and clothing to furniture and consumer electronics.
 While these container ports are not equipped to handle commodities like coal, they have enough capacity that they actually compete with one another for shippers' container business, said James Thompson, the chairman of Crown Worldwide Holdings, one of Asia's largest logistics and household moving companies. 
 Another problem is that China's heavy spending recently on transportation links has gone mostly to highways instead of rail routes. Trains are more efficient than trucks for hauling commodities except for short distances. But China's rail system is a national monopoly that has not received the same investment lavished on highways by municipal and provincial governments.
 Transportation delays, together with rising raw material prices in world markets, are driving up costs for Chinese industry. This has fed inflation, which rose to 3.2 percent in the 12 months ended Jan. 31 for consumer goods, but has started climbing much faster for many industrial goods that factories need to assemble cars and refrigerators and that construction workers need to erect buildings.
 China's National Bureau of Statistics said last month that prices for some types of steel rose by a third in the 12 months through the end of January, while aluminum prices climbed 35.7 percent.
 Complicating the backlogs at the Chinese ports are speculators who have ordered extra supplies of steel and have been slow to pick it up from the docks after ships are unloaded. Their hope, Mr. Banga said, is that prices will continue increasing and they will be able to sell the steel for more the longer they wait. 
 Under standard shipping industry contracts, the importer that contracted a ship to carry a cargo must pay the costs for port delays. Those expenses are soaring because of a global shortage of bulk freighters.
 The big question in China is how much worse the problem will become. Shipping and power industry executives say that a lot of routine maintenance on ports, railroads and power stations has been postponed in the last two years in a frantic effort to meet production schedules, making mechanical breakdowns much more likely.
 At the same time, China is planning huge increases in its commodities imports.
 Chinese iron ore imports tripled from 1999 to 2003, hitting 148 million tons last year, as China overtook Japan and the European Union to become the world's largest importer of iron ore. Imports are scheduled to rise another 33 million tons this year, according to the China Iron and Steel Association, and even further in the next several years as many new steel mills come into production.
 In the latest sign of the growth, BHP Billiton of Australia announced on Monday a $9 billion contract to sell 12 million tons of iron ore a year to four Chinese steel companies.
 The scale of the boom is enriching many transportation companies, but worries some. ''Nobody has ever seen this before,'' said the senior shipping executive. ''This is a typical bubble scenario.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A power plant in Guangdong Province in southern China is importing coal from as far away as Australia. (Photo by Justin Guariglia/Contact Press Images)(pg. C1)
The cargo port in Zhanjiang, a city in southern China. Foreign investment in China for the first 11 months of last year totaled $47 billion
 Chinese officials had predicted $57 billion for the entire year. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C3)Chart: ''Clogged Ports And High Prices''China's high demand for raw materials began driving up the daily charter rates for bulk freighters in late 2002. Clogged ports are now delaying many of the freighters, so fewer are available for voyages, helping send rates even higher.Graph tracks average daily spot charter fees for a 165,000-ton bulk vessel carrying iron ore from Brazil to China (plotted monthly) since 2002.(Source by Clarkson Research Studies, London)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); INFLATION (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); TRAINS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); COAL MARKETS (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); POWER FAILURES (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (72%); METALS MARKETS (71%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); GRAIN MARKETS (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Transportation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Delays (Transportation)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) SOUTH CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



91 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 3532 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES

 BODY:

ATTRACTIONS

Museums and Sites

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE, 36-01 35th Avenue, at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens. ''Greek Cinema Showcase,'' featuring the third of four American premieres: tonight at 7:30, ''Matchbox'' (2003), directed by Yiannis Economidis. Through Sunday, ''Bernardo Bertolucci,'' featuring films by the director; tomorrow at 1 p.m., ''Little Buddha'' (1993); tomorrow at 4:30 p.m., ''Stealing Beauty'' (1996); Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Besieged'' (1998); Sunday at 4 p.m., ''The Dreamers'' (2003). Also screening this weekend, ''Small Change'' (1976), by Francois Truffaut, tomorrow and Sunday at 6:30 p.m. Through April 25, ''Blip: Arcade Classics From the Museum Collection,'' an interactive exhibition of video games from the 1970's and 80's. Film and video showings are free with admission unless otherwise noted. Museum admission: $10; 65+ and students, $7.50; ages 5 to 18, $5; free for members and children 4 and younger and for everyone, Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m.; Friday evening screenings are extra. Information: (718) 784-0077 or www.movingimage.us.

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. Through Aug. 15, ''Exploratorium/A.M.N.H.,'' an interactive exhibition on the principles of nature; timed tickets to the exhibition are $19, $14 for students and 60+ and $11 for children under 12. The Arthur Ross Hall of Meteorites, with the 34-ton Ahnighito meteorite, the world's largest, on display. ''Petra: Lost City of Stone,'' with objects from the ancient Jordanian city, as well as 19th-century drawings and prints; through July 6; timed tickets to the exhibition are $19; students and 60, $16.50; children under 12, $13. ''Vietnam: Journeys of Body, Mind and Spirit,'' an exhibition on Vietnamese life with photography, sculpture, clothing and other items; through Sunday. ''Seasons of Life and Land: Arctic National Wildlife Refuge,'' a display of more than 40 large-format photographs by Subhankar Banerjee; through Sunday. In the Imax Theater, ''Volcanoes of the Deep Sea,'' documenting expeditions to the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, and ''India: Kingdom of the Tiger,'' a docudrama about a hunting expedition by Jim Corbett, an early 20th-century writer and conservationist. Tickets to one Imax feature, including museum admission, are $19; students and 60+, $12.50; children under 12, $10. General museum suggested admission: $12; students and 60+, $9; 12 and younger, $7; under 2, free. Combination ticket, including museum and Rose Center admission and the Hayden Planetarium space show: $22; students and 60+, $16.50; 12 and younger, $13; under 2, free. Museum hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., except the first Friday of most months, when the Rose Center is open until 8:45 for ''Starry Nights''; tonight, the Terrell Stafford Quintet. Information: amnh.org, (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200.

HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town. As part of the Tavern Concert Series, performances by Dan Milner and Bob Conroy, a folk duo. Tomorrow night at 7:30 and 9. Concert admission: $12; members, $10. Museum admission: $5; 62+, $4; students and children 5 to 17, $3; children under 5 and members of the Staten Island Historical Society, free. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m.

MOUNT VERNON HOTEL MUSEUM AND GARDEN, 421 East 61st Street, Manhattan. Built in 1799 as a carriage house for Abigail Adams and Col. William Smith, it was the Mount Vernon Hotel from 1826 to 1833. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 62+, $4; under 12, free. Information: (212) 838-1623.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. The museum collects, preserves and presents material related to the city's history. ''Glass and Glamour: Steuben's Modern Moment, 1930-1960'' captures a pivotal moment in 20th-century design when Steuben Glass embraced the vocabulary of Modernism and linked its image to the glamour of New York; through April 25. Hours: Tuesdays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. for registered groups only; Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: $7; 62+, students and children, $4; families, $12. Information: (212) 534-1672.

MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. ''It Was 40 Years Ago Today . . . The Beatles in America,'' an exhibition with photographs of the Beatles from the CBS photo archive and the collection of Bill Eppridge and radio interviews with Larry Kane. The photographs will be on view through May 2; the interviews can be heard through June 20. ''American Pop,'' performances and interviews with pop stars, through Aug. 1. ''A Celebration of George Balanchine: Selected Television Work,'' through Sunday. Screenings Tuesdays through Sundays at 2 p.m., and Thursdays at 6 p.m. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $10; students and 62+, $8; children under 14, $5. Information: (212) 621-6800.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN, Alexander Hamilton United States Custom House, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan. ''The Language of Native American Baskets: From the Weaver's View,'' 200 baskets, on view through Jan. 9. ''Continuum: 12 Artists,'' through November. ''Legends of Our Times: Native Ranching and Rodeo Life on the Plains and the Plateau,'' through Sunday. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Free. Information: (212) 514-3700.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan. ''Radical Hospitality,'' a display of photographs, posters and other items that chronicle the lives of those who helped in relief efforts after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11; through Aug. 1. ''Recovery: The World Trade Center Recovery Operation at Fresh Kills,'' an exhibition of more than 50 photographs; through March 21. ''Children at Risk: Protecting New York City's Youths, 1653-2003,'' paintings, prints, maps and documents from the society's collection as well as those from the Children's Aid Society and the New York City Municipal Archives; through April 4. ''Ann Zane Shanks: Behind the Lens,'' photography exhibition; through March 28. ''Home Sewn: Three Centuries of Stitching History,'' through April 18. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; children and 62+, $5. Information: (212) 873-3400.

NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street. Through May 28, ''Cities in the Americas: A Celebration of the Phelps Stokes Collection,'' an exhibition of etchings, engravings and lithographs depicting city scenes from the 16th to the 19th century. Free. Hours: Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; closed Sundays, Mondays and holidays. Free guided tours are available daily at 12:30 and 2:30 p.m. Exhibition information: (212) 869-8089.

NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn Heights. Through April 11, ''Daniel Greene: Subway Paintings,'' depicting stations and passengers. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; 62+ and ages 3 to 17, $3; 2 and under, free. Information: (718) 694-1600.

Gardens

NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Southern Boulevard and 200th Street, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Includes 48 gardens and plant collections. Through March 28, ''The Orchid Show,'' with displays of exotic varieties including miniature orchids. Related demonstrations and lectures this weekend: ''The Elegance of Orchids'' (tomorrow at 11 a.m.); ''Orchid Basics and Resources for Home Gardeners'' (tomorrow at 1 p.m.); ''Questions and Answers with the Orchid Experts'' (tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m.); ''From Borneo to the Bronx: An Overview of Orchidology at the New York Botanical Garden'' (tomorrow at 1:30 p.m.) ''How to Make an Orchid Tree with Miniature Orchids'' (tomorrow at 3 p.m.); ''Basic Orchid Care: Tips and Techniques for the Home Gardener'' (Sunday at 1:30 p.m.); ''Hardy Orchids -- Even for the Home Gardener!'' (Sunday at 3 p.m.) Tomorrow, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., ''Expand Your Plant Palette,'' a series of workshops covering the cultivation of perennials, evergreens, shrubs, roses and other varieties; fee, $23 a workshop ($21 for members.) Garden hours: Tuesdays through Sundays and Monday holidays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Garden grounds admission: $6; ages 62+, $3; students, $2; children 2 to 12, $1; under 2, free. Combination ticket, which includes all admissions and a tram tour: $10; 62+ and students, $7.50; children 2 to 12, $4; under 2, free. Forest tours, Saturdays and Sundays at noon. Tram tours, daily, every 30 minutes. Conservatory admission: $5; students and 62+, $4; 2 to 12, $3; under 2, free. Grounds admission free on Wednesdays, and 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking: $5. Information: nybg.org; (718) 817-8700.

QUEENS BOTANICAL GARDEN, 43-50 Main Street, Flushing. Workshops: tomorrow at noon, ''Natural Lawn Care''; fee, $10, $5 for members. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Late Winter Pruning.'' In bloom: snowdrop, witch hazel, Japanese andromeda, winter aconite and winter jasmine. Garden hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Free. Information: (718) 886-3800.

WAVE HILL, West 249th Street and Independence Avenue, Riverdale, the Bronx. Gardens, greenhouses and woodlands are part of this 28-acre site. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Lights, Shadows, Animal Action/Luces, Sombras y Animales en Accion,'' a family art project. Gardening workshops: tomorrow at 2 p.m., ''Seed Starting''; Sunday at 2 p.m., ''The Proper Cut.'' Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Admission: $4; students and 62+, $2; under 6, free. Information: (718) 549-3200.

EVENTS

New York City

10TH PRESERVATION CONFERENCE: ''CULTURAL LANDMARKS: CONTROVERSY, PRACTICE AND PROSPECTS,'' sponsored by the Historic Disctricts Council. The weekend event features a reception tonight at 6 at the Institute of International Education, 809 United Nations Plaza, at 45th Street, Manhattan; panel discussions tomorrow from 9:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m. at the New-York Historical Society, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan; and walking tours on Sunday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. of the Upper West Side, the East Village and Chinatown, as well as Fort Greene, Brooklyn; Flushing, Queens and the Grand Concourse in the Bronx. Fees, $25 for the reception ($20 for members); $25 for the panel discussions ($15 for students); and $25 for each of the walking tours. Information: (212) 614-9107; www.hdc.org.

AFRICAN AMERICAN WOMEN IN CINEMA ANNUAL FILM FESTIVAL 2004 continues with panel discussions and screenings at several Manhattan locations. Events today include panel discussions and screenings beginning at 11:30 a.m. at the TriBeCa Film Center, 375 Greenwich Street, at Franklin Street; and a screening and party beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Tribeca Performing Arts Center at the Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street. Events tomorrow begin at 11:30 a.m. at the TriBeCa Film Center and 5:30 p.m. at the TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, and end with an awards ceremony and reception at 10 p.m. at the South Street Seaport. Admission to individual events ranges from $15 to $25; there is also a festival pass to all events for $160, $80 for students; or a one day pass for $70. Information: www.aawic.org.

YEATS'S PLAYS FOR LENT, Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights. Three Lenten plays, presented by a professional cast, with original music and puppets. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. Tickets, $20 in advance, $25 at the door ($16 and $19 for students.) Information: (212) 662-2133.

''HAITIAN WOMEN: PORTRAITS OF COURAGE,'' Brecht Forum, 122 West 27th Street, Chelsea. Opening Sunday, a photography exhibition of works by Tequila Ayisyen on view through March. On Sunday, beginning at 5:30 p.m., there will be a roundtable discussion about the lives and struggles of Haitian women, followed by readings of works by Haitian writers. Events are free. Viewing hours, Monday through Friday, 2 to 8 p.m. Information: (212) 242-4201.

''MEMORY AND HISTORY,'' Godwin-Ternbach Museum, Klapper Hall, Queens College, Kissena Boulevard and the Long Island Expressway, Flushing, Queens. A multi-media display based on immigration and cultural identity, featuring artwork by B. Amore and Pauline Jakobsberg. Through June 4. Hours, Mondays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Free. Information: (718) 997-5590.

''MANHATTANVILLE: HIDDEN IN PLAIN SIGHT,'' Cohen Library, City College, Convent Avenue at 138th Street. A free exhibition of photographs, documents and other items that document the history of this Upper Manhattan neighborhood; through July 1. Hours, 8 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mondays through Thursdays; 8 a.m. to 9 p.m., Fridays; 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., Saturdays and noon to 6 p.m., Sundays, except April 2-9 when hours will be 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Information: (212) 650-7609.

''HARLEM IS . . .,'' Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue and 112th Street, Morningside Heights. A multi-media exhibition on the history of the area, with photographs, maps and video clips. Viewing hours: daily, 1 to 3 p.m. through April 25. Free. Information: (212) 932-7347.

NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, 40 Lincoln Center Plaza. Tomorrow at 3 p.m., a lecture on Merce Cunningham, the choreographer, by Roger Copeland, author of ''Merce Cunningham: The Modernizing of Modern Dance.'' Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m.; closed Sundays and Mondays. Information: (212) 870-1630.

BROOKLYN PUBLIC LIBRARY, Grand Army Plaza, at Prospect Park. Katharine Hepburn Retrospective begins with a screening of ''Little Women'' (1933) tonight at 6. Saturday Family Movies continue with ''The Secret of Roan Inish'' (1995), directed by John Sayles, tomorrow at 11 a.m. Information: (718) 230-2100.

WALKING TOURS

New York City

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS. Today at 1 p.m., ''The 'Official' Gangs of New York Tour,'' led in conjunction with Miramax Films, exploring the history, people, legends and lore of Five Points, meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Chambers Street. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., a walk through Central Park, past Strawberry Fields, the Ramble and the site of Seneca Village, meeting on the northwest corner of Central Park West and 66th Street. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Brooklyn Bridge and Brooklyn Heights,'' with a walk across the bridge, meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Chambers Street. Fee for each tour: $12; students and 63+, $10. Information: (212) 439-1090.

I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., ''The Upper West Side'' visits sites associated with movie scenes, musicians, actors and writers, meeting at the Maine Memorial Monument, Central Park West and 59th Street. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Actors, Actresses and Encores: The East Village'' stops at places of importance in the careers of Susan Sarandon, James Earl Jones and Meryl Streep, meeting at the cube in Astor Place. Each tour, $12. Information: (732) 270-5559.

''UPPER EAST SIDE: ON THE PARK'' covers the mansions, clubs and residences designed by McKim, Mead & White and others. Sunday at 2 p.m. Sponsored by Sunflower Tours. Fee, $18. Meeting place and reservations: (718) 884-0132.

PARLOR JAZZ JAM SESSION IN HARLEM, sponsored by Harlem, Your Way! A tour of historic and contemporary jazz clubs, ending with a concert in a private residence. Meets Sunday at 2:30 p.m. at 129 West 130th Street. Fee, $55. An optional meal follows. Reservations: (212) 690-1687.

''STUYVESANT PARK AND GRAMERCY PARK HISTORIC DISTRICTS'' stops at churches, clubs and residences, including the National Arts Club and St. George's Church, meets Sunday at 2 p.m. on the northeast corner of 14th Street and First Avenue, East Village. Fee: $10. Sponsored by New York City Cultural Walking Tours. Information: (212) 979-2388.

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING. Tomorrow at noon, ''When Irish Eyes Were Smiling'' examines the Midtown Manhattan neighborhood called Hell's Kitchen, with stops at St. Malachy's Church, the Irish Arts Center and the statues of George M. Cohan and Father Francis P. Duffy, meeting on the northeast corner of Eighth Avenue and 48th Street. Tomorrow at 3:30 p.m., ''A Salute to Robert De Niro,'' with a walk through TriBeCa, passing the old Mercantile Exchange building, the TriBeCa Film Center and historic 18th-century row houses, meeting on the northwest corner of Franklin Street and West Broadway. Sunday at 11:30 a.m., a ''Pre-Purim Promenade,'' on the Lower East Side, with stops at a bialy bakery, a pickle stand and a knish shop, meeting on the northwest corner of Delancey and Essex Streets. Fee for each, $5 (food is additional). Information: (212) 265-2663.

DR. PHIL: NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., ''Brooklyn Bridge Walk From Brooklyn'' discusses the Roebling family, instrumental in the building of the bridge, and the importance of the structure itself, meeting inside the Brooklyn Ice Cream Factory, under the Brooklyn Bridge, near the River Cafe. Sunday at 1:30 p.m., ''350th Anniversary of the American Jewish Experience'' visits a matzoh factory and one of the oldest synagogue buildings in the city, meeting at the First Roumanian-American Synagogue, 89 Rivington Street. Fee for each, $15. Information: (888) 377-4455.

OUTDOORS CLUB. Tomorrow at noon, ''42nd Street, East to West,'' a two-mile walk, meeting on the northwest corner of First Avenue and 42nd Street; information, (718) 361-2585. Sunday at 12:30 p.m., a six-mile walk in Alley Pond Park, Queens, meeting at Hillside Avenue and Winchester Boulevard; information, (516) 328-8055. Fee for each, $3.

CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY. Free weekend tours of Central Park. Saturdays at 11 a.m. ''Views From the Past,'' a look at the history of the park, meeting at the Dairy, midpark at 65th Street. Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m., ''Cross-Park Promenade,'' an east-to-west walk through the park; meets at the statue of Samuel F. B. Morse, Fifth Avenue and 72nd Street. Information: (212) 794-6564.

URBAN TRAIL CONFERENCE. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., SoHo art galleries will be visited on a three-mile walk, meeting in front of the Waverly Theater, Avenue of the Americas and West Third Street. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., Jamaica Bay to Fort Tilden, an eight-mile hike on the boardwalk and trails, meeting at the Broad Channel subway stop on the A train. Sunday at 11:30 a.m., a walk through Forest Park, Queens, meeting in front of the Vitamin Shoppe, at Continental Avenue and 71st Steet, Forest Hills. Fee for each, $3. Information: (718) 352-0381.

STREET SMARTS, N.Y. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., ''Glorious Gramercy Park'' visits an exclusive enclave that was once a swamp, meeting in front of the Gramercy Park Hotel, 52 Gramercy Park North, at Lexington Avenue. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Manhattan Murder Mysteries'' explores famous crime scenes; meeting in front of the Park Central Hotel on Seventh Avenue at 56th Street. Fee for each: $10. Information: (212) 969-8262.

SHOREWALKERS. Sunday at 10 a.m., ''Fort Tilden to Breezy Point,'' Rockaway Peninsula, Brooklyn and Queens, a five-mile walk along the beach and paved surface, meeting at the token booth of the Brooklyn College/Flatbush Avenue subway stop on the No. 2 train. Fee, $3. Information: (718) 834-0477.

MANHATTANVILLE WALK includes some cultural instititutions in this West Harlem neighborhood, meeting Sunday at 11 a.m. on the southwest corner of Broadway and West 125th Street. Fee, $20. Sponsored by Manhattan-ville Heritage Society. Walk to be followed by a visit to the show ''Manhattanville: Hidden in Plain Sight'' in the Cohen Library, City College. Information: (212) 939-0994.

GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL: ''CROSSROADS OF A MILLION PRIVATE LIVES'' covers the stories behind its creation and restoration, meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. on the southwest corner of Park Avenue and 42nd Street. Sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York. Fee, $12. Information: (212) 242-5762.

METRO TOUR SERVICE. Today through Sunday at 2 p.m., a tour of Brooklyn historic sites landmarks and ethnic groups in Fort Greene, Clinton Hill and Brooklyn Heights. Sunday at 10 a.m., a tour of Downtown Brooklyn with a stop for gospel music. Both meet in front of the Marriott, Adams and Tillary Streets, Downtown Brooklyn. Fee for each, $25. Information: (718) 789-0430.

RECREATION

Manhattan

COOGAN'S SALSA BLUES AND SHAMROCKS 5K RUN, Fort Washington Avenue, at 168th Street, Washington Heights. Sunday at 9 a.m. Begins and ends in front of Armory Track and Field Center, Fort Washington Avenue and 168th Street. Children's race follows at 10 a.m. Sponsored by New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration: $20; $14 for members; $10 for junior and senior members. Race-day registration: $30; $20 for members; $12 for junior and senior members. Children's race, $5. Information: (212) 860-4455; www.nyrrc.org.

BIKE THE BIG APPLE. ''Feast of St. Joseph Bike Delight Tour,'' a 12-mile ride in the Belmont section of the Bronx. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. Fee, $69, including bicycle rental and all equipment. Meeting place: (201) 837-1133.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A Spare Times listing in some copies of Weekend on March 5 about the photography exhibition ''Haitian Women: Portraits of Courage,'' on view at the Brecht Forum in Manhattan through this month, misstated the surname of the artist. She is Tequila Minsky. (Ayisyen is part of the show's title in Creole.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: EVENTS -- Three Lenten plays by Yeats at St. John the Divine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); FILM HISTORY (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (89%); HISTORY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); FILM (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); WILDLIFE (69%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (71%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (65%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (71%); JORDAN (53%); VIET NAM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



92 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 6; HAVENS

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: Weekender Deep River, Conn.

BYLINE: By JAMES LOMUSCIO

 BODY:
IN Deep River, one building looms large: the four-story, red-brick industrial structure at the heart of Main Street was built in 1914 as the headquarters of Pratt, Read & Company, a business with roots reaching to 1809 when it began making ivory combs. By 1839, it was making piano keys, and for nearly a century, millions of pounds of elephant tusks were hauled up the hill from the Connecticut River, an enterprise that sustained the town and its work force. But in the 1940's, with Pratt, Read gone, the building became an empty hulk and went mostly unused the next 40 years. 
 And now? It's the Piano Works, a condominium where two-bedroom apartments go for $160,000 or more -- and where the buyers include some of the growing numbers of weekenders in town. 
 Two hours from New York City near the Connecticut shore, Deep River remains a mix of rural, nautical and industrial. First settled in 1635, it has its share of early 18th-century homes, most in the woodsy Winthrop section on the town's west side. But it also has downtown streets with Victorian-era cottages, which once housed Pratt, Read workers, as well as three working factories: Tri-Town Precision Plastics, Silgan Plastics and Fabled Foods, a wholesale bread bakery. 
 ''Nothing is pretentious, and it's never been trendy,'' said Suky Howard, a publicist from Manhattan who with her husband, Peter, spends weekends at a 1740 house on 17 acres in Winthrop. ''It's just a functioning town.'' 

The Scene
 Deep River has never had the panache of communities like Essex, Ivoryton or Chester, and its blue-collar roots, locals say, block it from ever becoming chic -- not that they mind. ''The attitude of the townspeople is that they're not big on residential development, and they don't want to be a bedroom area for something else,'' said Steve Milton, owner of Milton Realty and a resident for 48 years. 
 In his 1995 novel ''Independence Day,'' Richard Ford's view was darker. He described Deep River as ''the epitome of dozing, summery, Southern New England ambivalence where just-us-regular-folks live in stolid acceptance of watered-down Congregationalist and Roman Catholic moderation,'' while elsewhere in town, ''pseudo-reclusive richies'' have ''erected humongous houses.''
 Well, yes, and no. True, Deep River, with a population of almost 4,700, about 5 percent part-timers, has its divisions, but in the decade since Mr. Ford's book won the Pulitzer Prize, the gap has greatly narrowed. Weekenders say the economic mix is part of the town's charm, the thing that attracted them to Deep River in the first place.
 And, in an e-mail, Mr. Ford said that his picture of the town ''had chiefly to do with the fact that I once sailed out of Essex 30 years ago and was taken by the name, Deep River.'' He said that it seemed right for his main character, Frank Bascombe. ''Deep River connected in my poor mind with Deep Water,'' he said, ''which is what Frank considers himself to be in.'' 
 Actually, it wasn't until 1947 that the town was incorporated as Deep River, not, as many assume from the depths of the Connecticut, but from the Deep River mill stream.
 The downtown is an amalgam of mom-and-pop shops; the Tudor-style Deep River Public Library; the red-brick, Flat Iron-style town hall; the village green; and the Stone House, now the home of the Deep River Historical Society. Shops run from fine-food stores like Pasta Unlimited to the Fine Line Tattoo parlor, with stops in between like Deep River Hardware and Fran's Barber Shop. There is also a recently refurbished small shopping center that features a new Adams supermarket.
 For those less-inclined to cook, there is Deep River Provisions, which offers hot meals to go, including a prime rib dinner for $11.95 a person. Restaurants include the Ivory Pub (entrees range from $13 to $18) near the Piano Works, which is favored by full-timers as well as weekenders.
 Deep River's de facto town center is the library. Though it holds only 26,000 volumes, it won the Association of Connecticut Library Boards' award for excellence in 2003, and the downstairs meeting room is regularly used by groups from the Boy Scouts to the kennel club.
 One summer event for which Deep River is known is the annual Ancient Muster, a fife and drum gathering at Veterans Memorial Park the third weekend in July. Town officials say it draws thousands of visitors to hear more than 70 groups. 

Pros
 To hear First Selectman Richard Smith tell it, the town's greatest assets are its location and its homespun charm. ''People talk to you,'' he said. ''We have people who've moved here from all over the place, and when you talk to them, they'll tell you they were passing through, stopped to eat, people started talking to them, and eventually, they decided to settle here because of the friendliness.''
 That's more or less what happened to James and Kathleen Hogan, who came to town five years ago. The Hogans, then living in Valhalla, N.Y., spotted a garage sale at a Federal-style home with views over the Connecticut River tidelands. When the owner told them that his deal to sell the house had fallen through, they bought it for $400,000. ''We stopped at a garage sale and bought a house,'' said Mr. Hogan, a government administrator in Westchester County, N.Y.
 The river gives the town a rich outdoor life. At the town landing, which was restored in 1990 to include a gazebo and a boat-launching area, a steam-powered riverboat meets steam locomotives from the Valley Railroad to take passengers on river tours. Boaters, kayakers and canoeists put in their craft from the public launching site, while sailboats and motorboats dock at the Brewer Deep River Marina. In the middle of the river, 25-acre Eustasia Island is a wildlife refuge and home to ducks, wild turkey, herons and egrets. There are another 200 acres of tidal marsh at Pratt and Post Cove west of the river.
 On the east side of Main Street trails wander through the more than 300 acres of the Canfield-Meadow Woods Nature Preserve. At the end of Cedar Swamp Road in the Winthrop section is the entrance to the nearly 16,000-acre Cockaponset State Forest, which is used for picnicking, fishing, hiking and cross-country skiing. For swimming, there is Plattwood Park, Deep River's fresh water lake with a sandy beach, or, as little as 15 minutes away, Long Island Sound beaches in Westbrook and Madison. 

Cons
 While the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, the Ivoryton Playhouse and the Shubert Theater in New Haven are only short drives away, Deep River itself doesn't even have a movie theater.
 During World War II, Pratt, Read employed almost 3,000 people making gliders. But that ended in the late 40's, and the lean years left Deep River with a stretch of mostly empty, wood-frame buildings, some of them leaning, on the north end of Main Street. Sy Tubman, a Manhattan resident who recently bought a second home near the Essex border for about $400,000, said that while ''you can't beat this area in the summer, the downtown needs a lot.''
 The property tax rate, known as the mill rate, is at the higher end for the state, with the average resident paying $27.25 for every $1,000 of assessed value. Mr. Milton said the rate was comparable with that for Chester or Clinton and that Deep River's average taxes ''are in the $2,800 to $4,000 range.''
 To build the town's tax base and take some of the burden from homeowners, Mr. Milton said, a 55-acre parcel on the south side of town is being considered for an industrial park. The property is next to an existing industrial park. 

Real Estate
 Local brokers say prices in Deep River still lag behind those in trendier spots like Essex and Chester. But ''in the past few years we've had pretty substantial increases of 25 to 30 percent,'' said Mr. Milton. Colette Harron of the Mitchel Agency in Essex, agreed. ''People are finally beginning to pick up on Deep River,'' she said. 
 In the downtown area, two-bedroom condominiums at the Piano Works, as well as a second town-house condo development, the Georgetown, go for about $160,000. Three-bedroom downtown homes from 1,200 to 1,400 square feet sell for around $250,000 -- about $50,000 more than just two years ago, said Ms. Harron. Mitchel currently lists an 1800's two-bedroom, two-bathroom home on a quarter-acre downtown for $295,000.
 Also close to the center of town is a 10-room 1800's colonial-style house on nearly 1.4 acres with a barn, outbuildings and a pond listed by the F. K. Reyher Agency for $399,000. It has been on the market since October. 
 Near the river, prices climb, Ms. Harron said, pointing out a 2,600-square-foot, three-bedroom waterfront house with a private dock, guest cottage and pool on five acres priced at $3.5 million. It has been on the market since September. On the market since November is a 5,100-square-foot, five-bedroom home on 3.1 acres on River Road listed at $3.45 million. Land near the river is also at a premium; 6.33 acres of mostly marshland suitable for the construction of just one house is currently listed at $399,000.

THE LAY OF THE LAND
Meat and Potatoes and Hold the Pretense

POPULATION -- 4,674, most are full-time residents.
SIZE -- 14.2 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE -- $300,000.
RECENT SALES -- A 1,600-square-foot, three-bedroom home in need of work on Union Street recently sold for $160,000. A three-bedroom 1,400-square-foot Victorian with one and a half bathrooms on 0.13 acres on High Street sold for $259,000; a water-view home with four bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms on Doane Road sold for $1.95 million.
DISTANCE FROM NEW YORK: -- 116 miles.
TRAVEL TIME -- Two hours with no traffic delays.
GETTING THERE -- Take Interstate 95 north to Exit 69 toward Essex. Take Route 9 north to Exit 5 at Deep River. Turn right at the exit and head straight to Main Street.
WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- The Riverwind Inn (209 Main Street, 860-526-2014) has eight rooms ranging from $110 to $210. A full breakfast, snacks, sherry and other beverages are included.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WATER WORLD -- In a town called Deep River, boating is a given. Dan Rampage, above right, and Ali Izadi recently tried the Connecticut River, where a sailboat was docked. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)Map of Connecticut highlighting Deep River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); BAKERIES (50%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Geographic Profiles; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: SILGAN PLASTICS CORP (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: James Lomuscio

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%) Deep River (Conn); Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



93 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Telefonica Seeking BellSouth's Latin Assets

BYLINE: By TONY SMITH

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, March 4 

 BODY:
Telefonica, the Spanish telecommunications giant, said on Thursday that it was in talks to buy the Latin American assets of BellSouth for as much as $6 billion, a move that would further consolidate the region's mobile phone market.
 The negotiations come at a time BellSouth is looking to finance its share of the $41 billion that its joint venture, Cingular Wireless, has offered to acquire the AT&T Wireless Group, industry analysts said.
 Telefonica described the negotiations as being in the advanced stage and said they involved acquiring units in 10 countries, from Guatemala to Argentina. Telefonica said it would pay $5.5 billion to $6 billion if it bought all the assets, serving 10.5 million customers. 
 The talks illustrate the global game of musical chairs gripping the telecommunications market. Last month, Cingular Wireless, which is jointly owned by BellSouth and SBC Communications, agreed to buy AT&T Wireless after an intense bidding war with the Vodafone Group of Britain. BellSouth owns 40 percent of Cingular, while the remaining 60 percent belongs to SBC Communications.
 ''The bid for AT&T is a cash deal, and it is proving pretty stressful for both companies' balance sheets,'' said Raul Katz, director of Booz Allen Hamilton's telecommunications practice for the Americas. ''If this sale goes through, the funds will come in very handy at an opportune moment.''
 A sale, Mr. Katz said, would also allow BellSouth to go after a long-distance company like WorldCom, which has a multibillion-dollar business providing phone and data services to corporations.
 In Latin America, a sale may be the beginning of the end of a wave of consolidation that over the last two years has resulted in the emergence of Telefonica and America Movil of Mexico as the dominant forces, analysts said.
 If a deal is reached, it would give the company's Latin American division, Telefonica Moviles, 40 million subscribers, closing the gap with America Movil, which currently has nearly 44 million customers throughout the region.
 Last year, America Movil bought BellSouth's Brazilian operations for just over $800 million. A spokeswoman for America Movil, which is controlled by the Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helu, said the company had no comment on the latest BellSouth transaction.
 Generally, America Movil has said that it plans to rein in its acquisition drive this year and focus on expanding its existing businesses, though just this week the company raised $1.3 billion from fresh debt and so has considerable cash. 
 ''The wave of consolidation in Latin America is pretty much over,'' Mr. Katz said.
 So far, Mr. Slim has a track record of buying distressed assets at bargain prices, focusing on the region's three major markets: Brazil, Mexico and Argentina.
 That would seem to rule him out of making a counteroffer. If Telefonica were to pay $6 billion, it would be buying each new customer for $571, more than 50 percent more than what Mr. Slim paid per client when he bought BCP, BellSouth's main Brazilian unit.
 ''We're looking at a high price range relative to market value,'' Mr. Katz said of a $6 billion price tag.
 Yet Telefonica appears to be willing to pay the price, because its domestic market is nearing saturation, analysts said.
 Also, handset manufacturers like Nokia are predicting that most wireless growth in the future will come from markets like Latin America.
 Since Cesar Alierta took over as its chairman in 2000, Telefonica has invested heavily in Mexico and Brazil, despite the economic volatility and currency crises that have gripped much of the region and sent other operators, squeezed between shrinking revenue and dollar-based debt, packing.
 ''Two years ago, everyone was running for the door in Latin America and telecom was out of vogue,'' said Daniel R. Kastholm, who heads Latin American corporate analysis at Fitch Ratings in Chicago. ''Clearly, those who stayed are going to be in the best position to purchase assets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); DIVESTITURES (71%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (98%); AT&T INC (95%); TELEFONICA SA (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (90%); AMERICA MOVIL SAB DE CV (85%); BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (67%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bellsouth Corp; Telefonica Sa

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); TEF (NYSE) (92%); TEF (MCE) (92%); TEF (BIT) (92%); TDE (LSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); AMX (NYSE) (85%); AMX (BMV) (85%); AMOV (NASDAQ) (85%); BAH (NYSE) (67%); VOD (NASDAQ) (58%); VOD (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%)

PERSON: CARLOS SLIM HELU (58%) Tony Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%) LATIN AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); GUATEMALA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%) Latin America

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



94 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Prime Minister To Appeal For Investment

BYLINE: By Todd Zaun (NYT)

 BODY:
Worried about the low level of investment by foreign companies, the Japanese government will sponsor television commercials in the United States and Europe, one featuring Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, to encourage foreign companies to set up shop in Japan. The 60-second ads will begin March 8 on CNN, the BBC and other overseas networks. The ads will stress Japan's economic might and the huge pool of savings held by Japanese families. Well-known foreign business leaders in Japan, like the chief executive of the Nissan Motor Company's, Carlos Ghosn, above, will also be featured. Todd Zaun (NYT)


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (83%) Foreign Investments; Advertising and Marketing; Television

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (71%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (71%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (55%) Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi; Todd Zaun

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%) Japan; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



95 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Lifts Ban on Many U.S. Beef Products

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4 

 BODY:
Mexico lifted part of its ban on imports of beef from the United States on Thursday, easing restrictions imposed after a case of mad cow disease was discovered in Washington State in December.
 Mexico, the second-largest market for American beef exports, has been under strong pressure from the United States to reconsider its ban.
 Senior Bush administration officials had argued that several new safety requirements imposed in December would prevent the spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease, which can be fatal to humans who eat beef from cattle that are infected with it. 
 The announcement was made in advance of a meeting this weekend between President Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico at Mr. Bush's ranch in Crawford, Tex.
 Mexico ended its ban on many beef products imported from the United States, like boneless cuts from animals under 30 months old and veal from animals under nine months old. Mexico held firm, however, on its ban of live calves and cattle from the United States.
 The announcement by Mexico was seen as an important first step in restoring the $3.6 billion export market for beef, veal and variety meats that disappeared after the discovery of the case of mad cow disease 
 ''This sends a very good signal when officials of our second-largest beef market have made the determination that our beef is safe -- that it is now time to resume trade,'' said J.B. Penn, the under secretary of agriculture for farm and foreign agricultural services.
 The lifting of the ban pushed cattle futures prices to a nine-week high in Chicago, according to Bloomberg News.
 Japan, the biggest market, has kept its ban firmly in place and has told the United States that it will have to improve its testing of cattle before it will allow American beef to be imported again.
 The European Union never imposed such restrictions, in part because it already has a ban on American beef treated with growth hormones. 
 After waging their own battles with mad cow disease, Europe and Japan require extensive testing of cattle herds, not the small-sample risk assessment used in the United States. Until now, the United States has not required or kept records tracing specific animals from birth to market. 
 The Agriculture Department and Congress are now debating how to create a national database for tracing animals. 
 One question is whether participation in a database system should be voluntary or mandatory. 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Finance Committee, said on Thursday that such a system should be mandatory, pointing out that even reluctant livestock producers understand that a ''mandatory identification system is necessary to build consumer confidence.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (94%); MEATS (93%); BEEF (91%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); ANIMALS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUTURES (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (75%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (75%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (62%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (58%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Consumer Protection; International Trade and World Market; Livestock; Livestock Diseases; Mad Cow Disease (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy); Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Meat

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (59%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (56%) Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%) Mexico; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



96 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: For Bloomberg And the G.O.P., Pre-Party Jitters

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
On paper, the Republican National Convention should be the four most fabulous days in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's political career. He will be presiding over the largest gathering of fellow Republicans ever in New York, with the nation's eyes turned on his city and, presumably, the mayor himself.
 But Mr. Bloomberg -- a lifelong Democrat who became a Republican to run for office -- finds himself in an uncomfortable political position, one that promises to get tougher as the convention nears. New York Democrats, who outnumber Republicans by a ratio of five to one, are complaining that their mayor is doing the bidding of the White House. At the same time, Republicans close to the White House say they view Mr. Bloomberg's Democratic background with suspicion and have clashed with his aides over logistical and financial details of the convention.
 It is as if Mr. Bloomberg will be host of a dinner party where half the guests cannot stand the other half, and it is only the salad course. 
 At times, the White House and City Hall have gone head to head over who is ultimately in control of the event. The host committee (city officials in charge of raising the money) and the committee on arrangements (national Republicans in charge of spending it) have disagreed over everything from how much money should be spent on vendors to how security should be handled.
 These disputes have been colored in part, several officials said, by lingering resentments from a nasty confrontation between the Bloomberg administration and Bush officials about ground zero security at the first anniversary of Sept. 11. But in choosing New York, national Republicans overcame any qualms, thanks to the irresistible ground zero backdrop and the more than $60 million Mr. Bloomberg pledged to raise for the convention, scheduled for Aug. 30 through Sept. 2. 
 ''Like anything else in the commercial world, most of the disagreements are over money,'' said David A. Norcross, who represents the national party as chairman of the committee on arrangements. ''When you've raised the money, it is hard to let go.'' A few weeks ago, Mr. Norcross was called in from Washington to mediate the disputes.
 The White House also dismisses talk of conflicts. ''This administration has an excellent working relationship with Mr. Bloomberg,'' said Ken Lisaius, a White House spokesman. 
 Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, said, ''There is nothing more than the usual tensions that exist when any two organizations work together,'' adding: ''No matter what any New Yorker's political persuasion or beliefs are -- and we have people from all over in the spectrum on this -- there is little dispute that this is a great thing for the city.''
 There are many examples of mayors being involved with conventions for opposing political parties. For example, Mayor Edward G. Rendell of Philadelphia signed up the Republicans for 2000 and had gone on to become the general chairman of the Democratic National Committee. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's situation is far more complex. He is a member of the party that is coming here to renominate the president, but he needs the votes of a majority in the opposing party. A caller to the mayor's radio program, a Democrat who said he voted for Mr. Bloomberg in 2001, warned that if he made an enthusiastic speech for President Bush at the convention, he could expect this voter's wrath next year. 
 ''The mayor is starting to get the reality of how much people hate Bush in this city,'' said Sarah S. Kovner, a Manhattan Democrat who served in the Clinton administration. ''People who have been strong supporters of him are not going to take too kindly to his support of the president.''
 Further, Mr. Bloomberg finds himself on the other side of the president or the national party on several divisive issues, like gay marriage, abortion rights and gun control. And the mayor's aides make it clear that their goal for the convention begins and ends with the economic benefit for the city and that they are not interested in the event's political objectives. ''The mayor and his staff are not doing this for partisan reasons,'' said a Republican consultant involved in the convention. ''If they were, there would be zero conflict.''
 And while Mr. Bloomberg has raised and donated millions of dollars for the party and its candidates, the consultant said, ''The fact is that everyone who works with him and around him are Democrats. That makes us a little uneasy.''
 Six Republicans involved with the convention all drew a contrast with Gov. George E. Pataki, whom they cited for his open embrace of the president, his willingness to raise money and his desire to ''literally do anything we want,'' one White House official said.
 Still, at the end of the day, the national Republican Party, the White House and the Bloomberg administration all share the same goal, said William D. Harris, chief executive officer of the convention, in an e-mail message: ''to create the best possible convention for the Republican Party and the city of New York.''
 But some of the bad feeling goes back to the first anniversary of Sept. 11 at ground zero. Among the issues were that invitations were sent well in advance to the families of those killed, and the Secret Service announced less than a week before the event that each family member would have to come much earlier than planned to pass through a metal detector, according to four people involved. ''Under ordinary circumstances,'' said one city official, ''you do whatever the Secret Service wants. But in this case, this would have ruined the ceremony because family members would have waited on long lines to get in and many would have missed hearing their loved one's name being read.'' 
 City Hall balked again last September at a Secret Service request for metal detectors at ground zero before Vice President Dick Cheney's planned visit. Mr. Cheney instead spent the day elsewhere in the city.
 White House officials raised these incidents when the city bid on the convention, said three people involved on both sides, and it was an issue that had to be mitigated, largely through the city's tasty package. 
 The Bloomberg administration feels confident that it can secure the convention without outside help. The committee on arrangements wants an outside security firm. ''There has always been a need for security,'' Mr. Norcross said. ''And is it heightened now without a doubt.''
 But the host committee -- Bloomberg appointees -- did not want to have to pay for it, and insists that any outside security contracts be paid for with general fund money.
 Mr. Bloomberg must also keep an eye on New York voters. Democrats who plan to run against him next year will almost certainly use any perceived coziness with the Republican Party to woo swing voters who dislike the president.
 The mayor has tried to find a balance. For example, he said yesterday that he thought it was fine for the president to use images from Sept. 11 in his campaign ads. But he has also opposed Mr. Bush on the proposed constitutional amendment banning gay marriage. And while he has expressed support for Mr. Bush's re-election, he has said he has no plans to speak at the convention. 
 ''The mayor's role here is not to capture the center stage during the convention,'' said Mr. Skyler, his spokesman. ''His job is to make sure the city is a good host. You're talking about filling hotels and Broadway shows at a traditionally slow time of the year. It's not about helping the mayor, it's about what is good for this city.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; George W (Pres) Bush; Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



97 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1656 words

HEADLINE: For a Diplomat, Task Is Quelling Disney's Unrest

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON and CARL HULSE

 BODY:
George J. Mitchell, who has just assumed one of the most challenging jobs in corporate America as chairman of the embattled Walt Disney Company, will need all of his skills as a negotiator to win over disgruntled shareholders.
 Mr. Mitchell, 70, a former United States senator who has little business experience, said in a telephone interview yesterday that he had no desire to play the corporate strategist, as many chairmen do. Instead, he sees his main job as negotiating among factions of unhappy investors, other board members and Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive who lost the chairman's title in the wake of a resounding no-confidence vote at the company's shareholder meeting on Wednesday.
 How well Mr. Mitchell fares could determine the fate not only of Mr. Eisner's nearly 20-year reign but of Disney itself. In addition to the shareholder revolt, Disney is the target of a hostile takeover bid by the Comcast Corporation, the country's largest cable operator. 
 For now, Mr. Mitchell, who was the presiding director of Disney's board until Wednesday night's appointment, said he was not planning on finding a successor for Mr. Eisner, as dissident investors have demanded. And Mr. Eisner said in an interview that he did not plan to leave anytime soon.
 Instead, Mr. Mitchell said he would ensure that the board looked after the best interests of the shareholders. ''Our loyalty is not to management,'' said Mr. Mitchell, who helped broker a peace agreement in Northern Ireland in the 1990's. ''We will organize both the management and policies to maximize shareholder value in the short and long term.''
 Mr. Mitchell's appointment is not sitting well with many of the investors crusading to change Disney management nor with corporate governance experts. They complained that not only does Mr. Mitchell have negligible corporate experience, but they say he is too closely allied to Mr. Eisner and his appointment does little to address investor discontent with Mr. Eisner's management of the company.
 Despite a recent improvement in Disney's financial performance and stock price, the company has languished over most of the last seven years, and Mr. Eisner's autocratic manner has been blamed for the exodus of several executives and the rupture of its lucrative partnership with Pixar Animation Studios, the creator of ''Finding Nemo,'' ''Toy Story'' and other hits.
 ''The company's response to this extraordinary shareholder proxy revolt trivialized it,'' said Sarah B. Teslik, executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors, an advisory firm for large shareholders on corporate governance matters. ''Mr. Eisner is not stepping down as C.E.O. He has not promised to retire when his contract expires in 2006.'' 
 Instead, she added, ''he is taking one of his existing directors, who has presided over a company that has got itself in this fix, and switching his title from presiding director to chairman.''
 Mr. Mitchell takes umbrage at the notion he is beholden to Mr. Eisner. He said he had only had three social dinners with Mr. Eisner at most. And he suggested that any critic call representatives in Britain and Ireland, between whom he mediated while negotiating the peace process in the mid-1990's, or any senator with whom he had squared off. ''Ask them if I am able to serve independently,'' he said. ''I don't think it is mutually exclusive to know someone and act independent.''
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a longtime colleague, said of Mr. Mitchell, ''He is a tough-minded person who has demonstrated he can deal not only with the sharp elbows of politicians, but can handle the elbows in the business world as well.'' 
 Mr. Mitchell's relationship with corporate America began in earnest when he left the Senate in 1995 after 15 years, the last seven as majority leader, to join the Disney board. (He worked as a trial lawyer before his career in elected office, which also included stops as a United States attorney and a federal judge.) 
 Mr. Eisner actually approached Mr. Mitchell in 1995 to gauge his interest in joining Disney as president. ''I watched him in the Senate and I heard a speech he gave and I was blown away,'' Mr. Eisner said. 
 Mr. Mitchell, however, said he did not want to move to Disney's headquarters in Burbank, Calif., preferring to stay in New York, near his home in Maine. But he did agree to join the board.
 Besides serving as special counsel to a Washington law firm now known as Piper Rudnick, Mr. Mitchell has also served on the boards of companies including Starwood, FedEx and Staples since leaving the Senate. But some of that service has been criticized by corporate governance experts. Mr. Mitchell was on the board of Xerox until 2002 and left soon after the company agreed to settle a charge by the Securities and Exchange Commission that it had altered its financial results. Mr. Mitchell was also on the board of Staples when it made a controversial transaction regarding its Internet division that benefited directors.
 ''To suggest that somehow that disqualifies me or others from service is a notion I reject,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''The men and women on those boards were outstanding individuals.''
 Mr. Mitchell's arrangement at Disney has also drawn criticism. Mr. Mitchell was paid $50,000 a year as a consultant for six years, but that ended in 2001 as the company sought to shore up its business practices. His firm also received millions of dollars in fees and expenses from Disney, another frowned-upon practice that has since stopped.
 Mr. Mitchell was appointed presiding director in 2002 as part of the board's effort to make it more independent. That, according to some board members, made him a natural for the job of nonexecutive chairman, even though investors representing 24 percent of Disney shares declined to support his re-election to the board on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Mitchell was picked for the job -- he will be paid an undetermined amount in stock -- largely because of his skill as a negotiator. ''It is hard to imagine anyone better than Mitchell, not only because of his governance experience, but his ability to reach consensus with high integrity and good judgment,'' said Judith Estrin, another board member. ''This is not about running the company.''
 In corporate America, few companies split the jobs of chairman and chief executive. But in a post-Enron world where the scrutiny on the conduct of boards has become intense, more companies are considering it as a check on the imperial power of top executives. In most cases, as when Bill Gates of Microsoft gave up the chief executive post several years ago, the chairman serves as the strategist. But at Disney, Mr. Eisner will oversee the strategic operations of the company while Mr. Mitchell will oversee board activities. 
 Mr. Mitchell said because the decision was made only on Wednesday, the duties of the job had not been completely defined. But he said the setup and his lack of business experience should not impede his ability to oversee Mr. Eisner. 
 ''It's not my style or belief I should do it alone or separate from other directors,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''I'm best at working with people to bring out people's best talents.''
 On Capitol Hill, Mr. Mitchell's former colleagues said his experience as majority leader of the Senate should have more than prepared him for what he now faces in the Disney boardroom.
 ''Whatever the differences the Disney stockholders may have are nothing compared to the differences you have out on the floor of the Senate,'' said Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, who worked closely with Mr. Mitchell on health care issues among others.
 His six-year leadership of the Senate straddled the administrations of the first President Bush and Bill Clinton, and Mr. Mitchell faced difficult tests with both men in the White House. He forced Mr. Bush to accept a budget deal that Republicans believe contributed to his election loss; he was unable to push Mr. Clinton's health care plan through Congress.
 One Republican who found himself regularly up against Mr. Mitchell rated him a ''formidable'' opponent and said that his measured and reasonable manner masked a strongly partisan and liberal bent that drove his views on economic, environmental and social issues.
 ''He came across as moderate and thoughtful yet he was a very vicious liberal partisan,'' said Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, who was the No.2 Republican in the Senate during some of Mr. Mitchell's time as majority leader. ''He had a big hand in defeating George H.W. Bush. He made him break his word to not raise taxes. I have never forgiven him for that.''
 Mr. Lott was referring to one of the difficult budget showdowns Mr. Mitchell took part in, this one in 1990 when Congressional leaders gathered for a summit meeting and devised a deficit-cutting plan that raised taxes in spite of Mr. Bush's famous ''no new taxes'' pledge.
 At Disney, the most fractious battle Mr. Mitchell is bound to face is over Mr. Eisner's future. At Wednesday's shareholder meeting in Philadelphia, investors representing 43 percent of Disney shares declined to support Mr. Eisner's re-election to the board. 
 Despite that no-confidence vote, Mr. Eisner still has the board's support. Neither Mr. Mitchell nor Mr. Eisner would elaborate on whether Mr. Mitchell's appointment was the first step in coming up with a succession plan. Mr. Mitchell said the board was meeting in April to discuss it. When asked how much time Mr. Eisner had to turn the company around to the satisfaction of disgruntled investors, he said: ''I don't think it is wise to speculate. We believe the results will validate the judgment.''
 Mr. Eisner was even more direct. ''I think it is only what it is,'' he said. ''Don't look at it as tea leaves.''
 He then added: ''What matters is the performance of the company.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: George J. Mitchell was named Disney's chairman on Wednesday. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
George J. Mitchell, a former United States senator, is no stranger to hammering out agreements. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''George J. Mitchell''BORN -- Aug. 20, 1933EDUCATION -- B.A., 1954, Bowdoin College
L.L.B., 1960, Georgetown UniversityRECENT JOB HISTORY1980-95 -- U.S. senator from Maine
majority leader, 1988-951995-97 -- Special adviser to the president1996-98 -- Chairman, Irish peace talks1995-02 -- Counsel, Verner LiipfertBernhard
chairman, 2001-22002-PRESENT -- Partner, Piper RudnickBOARDS -- Disney, chairman
Starwood Hotels and Resorts
FedEx
StaplesFAMILY -- Heather MacLachlan, wife
children, Andrea (from first marriage), Andrew and Claire (from current marriage)(Sources by Bloomberg News
 Who's Who)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (87%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (87%); ANIMATION (84%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (72%); ANIMATED FILMS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Company and Organization Profiles; Biographical Information; Boards of Directors; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); COMCAST CORP (69%); PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co; Comcast Corp; Pixar Animation Studios; Disney, Walt, Co; Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (69%); CCV (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (93%) George J Mitchell; Michael D Eisner; Laura M Holson; Carl Hulse; Edward M (Sen) Kennedy

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



98 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Retrial for 9/11 Figure; Appeal for More Evidence
A German appeals court ordered a retrial for the only person successfully prosecuted for involvement in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The defense complained that the trial was not fair because crucial evidence had been withheld by the German and American authorities. A1

Russians Aided Iraqi Program
American officials said a group of Russian engineers secretly aided Saddam Hussein's ballistic missile program even in the year or two before the war that ousted him from power. Any such work would have violated United Nations sanctions against Iraq. A1

American troops have become more adept at identifying and disarming roadside bombs in Iraq, although the deadly devices remain the single biggest killer of United States forces there. A10

Israeli Bomber Arrested
A 22-year-old Israeli man, a former soldier, has been arrested on suspicion of planting nine bombs directed against Arab citizens in northern Israel over the last three years. The intended victims included Arab members of Israel's Parliament. A8

Aristide Offered Exile
The Central African Republic reversed course and indicated that the exiled Haitian leader, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, could remain there if he chose. A8

China Hopes to Cool Economy
Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, delivering China's equivalent of the State of the Union address, vowed to cool China's surging economy and focus more resources on the hundreds of millions of people left behind in the boom of the last decade. A6

NATIONAL A12-20

Web Site Lists Plaintiffs In Malpractice Suits
A Texas company run by doctors has been operating a Web site that seeks to attack ''litigious behavior'' by posting the names of plaintiffs, their lawyers and expert witnesses in malpractice lawsuits, regardless of the merit of the claim. A12

Abuse Case Against Bishop
A district attorney in Springfield, Mass., said he would present to a grand jury accusations that Bishop Thomas Dupre abused two boys when he was a parish priest. A12

Kerry Seeks $80 Million
Senator John Kerry plans to raise $80 million before the Democratic convention as he gears up to run against President Bush, who has more than $100 million and is already running television ads. A16

Bush Campaigns in California
President Bush completed the second day of a campaign swing through California, with emphasis on his credentials as commander in chief and a robust defense of his tax cuts. A16

Defense Budget Faces Cuts
The Senate Budget Committee voted to shave $7 billion in military spending off the president's request. A14

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Drug Test Ethics Scrutinized
Companies are struggling to decide what they owe the patients who serve as test subjects, as they increasingly test drugs in other countries. A1

Another Human Ancestor
Another species has been added to the family tree of early human ancestors, a hominid that lived more than five million years ago. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Bloomberg Faces Pressure As Convention Nears
New York Democrats are complaining as the Republican National Convention nears that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is doing the bidding of the Republican White House. At the same time, some national Republicans say they have clashed with his aides over logistical and financial details of the convention. A1

Gay Marriage Licenses Denied
The fight over same-sex unions escalated in New York City as dozens of gay and lesbian couples seeking marriage licenses were turned away at the city clerk's office in Manhattan and hundreds of protesters demanding same-sex marriage rights rallied outside City Hall. B1

Damaged Building Unveiled
The little skyscraper at 90 West Street, veiled in its 23-story-high shroud and braced in scaffolding since it was damaged on Sept. 11, 2001, has had its cloak and scaffolding taken down. B1

WEEKEND E1-30; E31-40

ESCAPES F1-18

OBITUARIES A21

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-7

Colorado Makes Big Changes
Colorado announced sweeping changes to its scandal-ridden football program, barring recruits from visiting bars and private parties and putting them under the close supervision of parents and coaches. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Taking On a Tough Job
The performance of George J. Mitchell, the new chairman of the Walt Disney Company could determine the fate not only of Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive who lost the chairman's title in the wake of shareholder unrest, but also of Disney itself. A1

Dell to Step Down as Chief
Michael Dell said he would step down as chief executive of Dell Inc. but would remain chairman. C1

Stewart Jury Still Out
Jurors in the Martha Stewart case, deliberating for a second day, zeroed in on testimony from her assistant as they considered a perjury charge against her former stockbroker. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Yesterday's weapons; there must be consequences; Sept. 11 and Nov. 2; an astronaut changes his tune.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E30
TV Listings E29
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPEALS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); BUDGETS (87%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ARRESTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); ETHICS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); TAX LAW (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); EXPERT WITNESSES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); WEN JIABAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (92%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



99 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: RUSSIAN EXPERTS REPORTEDLY GAVE IRAQ MISSILE AID

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4 

 BODY:
A group of Russian engineers secretly aided Saddam Hussein's long-range ballistic missile program, providing technical assistance for prohibited Iraqi weapons projects even in the years just before the war that ousted him from power, American government officials say.
 Iraqis who were involved in the missile work told American investigators that the technicians had not been working for the Russian government, but for a private company. But any such work on Iraq's banned missiles would have violated United Nations sanctions, even as the Security Council sought to enforce them.
 Although Iraq ultimately failed to develop and produce long-range ballistic missiles and though even its permitted short-range missile projects were fraught with problems, its missile program is now seen as the main prohibited weapons effort that Iraq continued right up until the war was imminent. 
 After the first Persian Gulf war in 1991, Iraq was allowed only to keep crude missiles that could travel up to 150 kilometers, or about 90 miles, but the Russian engineers were aiding Baghdad's secret efforts illegally to develop longer-range missiles, according to the American officials. 
 Since the invasion last March, American investigators have discovered that the Russian engineers had worked on the Iraqi program both in Moscow and in Baghdad, and that some of them were in the Iraqi capital as recently as 2001, according to people familiar with the intelligence on the matter.
 Because some of the Russian experts were said to have formerly worked for one of Russia's aerospace design centers, which remains closely associated with the state, their work for Iraq has raised questions in Washington about whether Russian government officials knew of their involvement in forbidden missile programs. ''Did the Russians really not know what they were doing?'' asked one person familiar with the United States intelligence reports. 
 A spokesman for the Russian Embassy in Washington denied any knowledge of the allegations of recent Russian technical support for Iraq's missile effort.
 ''The U.S. has not presented any evidence of Russian involvement,'' said Yevgeny Khorishko, a spokesman for the Russian Embassy. 
 Russia and the former Soviet Union were among Iraq's main suppliers of arms for decades before Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, leading to the first gulf war.
 The Bush administration has previously said it had uncovered evidence that Iraq had unsuccessfully sought help from North Korea for its missile program, but had not disclosed the evidence that Iraq had also received Russian technical support.
 C.I.A. and White House officials refused to comment on the matter, and people familiar with the intelligence say they believe that the administration has been reluctant to reveal what it knows about Moscow's involvement in order to avoid harming relations with President Vladimir V. Putin.
 ''They are hyper-cautious about confronting Putin on this,'' complained one intelligence source.
 In his public testimony last week about the worldwide threats facing the United States, George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, restated Washington's longstanding concerns about Russia's controls over its missile and weapons technology, without mentioning the evidence of missile support for the Hussein government.
 ''We remain alert to the vulnerability of Russian W.M.D. materials and technology to theft or diversion,'' Mr. Tenet said. ''We are also concerned by the continued eagerness of Russia's cash-strapped defense, biotechnology, chemical, aerospace and nuclear industries to raise funds via exports and transfers -- which makes Russian expertise an attractive target for countries and groups seeking W.M.D. and missile-related assistance.''
 The Iraq Survey Group, the United States team that has hunted for evidence of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, also found indications that Baghdad had received assistance from sources in Ukraine, Belarus and Serbia, according to American officials.
 In an interim report on the progress of the Iraq Survey Group made public in October, David A. Kay, then the C.I.A.'s chief weapons hunter, reported that his group had found ''a large volume of material and testimony by cooperating Iraq officials on Iraq's effort to illicitly procure parts and foreign assistance for its missile program.''
 It listed several examples detailing assistance from foreign countries, but apart from North Korea, no other countries were identified.
 More than 10 months after the end of major military operations in Iraq, American teams have still not found conclusive evidence that Iraq had any chemical, biological or nuclear weapons, raising doubts about one of the Bush administration's main arguments for going to war. Since he resigned from his post last month, Dr. Kay has said he believes that Iraq largely abandoned the production of weapons of mass destruction after the first gulf war, and that it gradually destroyed its remaining stockpiles during the 1990's.
 But Dr. Kay has said the evidence shows that Iraq tried to keep upgrading its ballistic missiles even as its other weapons programs were stalling out. In interviews with Iraqi scientists, examinations of documents and other sources, the Iraq Survey Group has determined that Iraq was actively seeking ways to upgrade its crude missile abilities in order to try to build a rocket fleet that could become a regional threat, reaching American forces based in neighboring countries.
 American officials now say that the United Nations restrictions that allowed Iraq to keep missiles with ranges of up to 150 kilometers had an unintended effect. From the Iraqi perspective, it meant that it was still legal for Baghdad to continue some missile development activities, since short-range missiles were permitted.
 By contrast, United Nations sanctions completely banned Iraq from keeping any chemical, biological or nuclear weapons, and it now seems that Iraq eventually abandoned those programs.
 Taking advantage of the loophole permitting short-range missiles, Iraq sought foreign advice on such technical matters as guidance and airframe systems in order to develop missiles with greater range and accuracy than its previous missiles, according to officials familiar with the intelligence. In his October interim report, Dr. Kay said Iraqi detainees and other sources had told American investigators that beginning in 2000, Mr. Hussein approved efforts to develop ballistic missiles with ranges from 400 to 1,000 kilometers.
 Still, the evidence gathered by the Iraq Survey Group suggests that Iraq's missile development efforts were poorly organized and ultimately unsuccessful.
 ''They had too many scattered programs, and so they didn't focus their efforts on any one missile,'' said one person familiar with the intelligence on the matter.
 When United Nations weapons inspectors returned to Iraq in late 2002 just before the war, they found that Iraq had produced short-range Samoud 2 missiles that had slightly longer ranges than the United Nations sanctions allowed. In the weeks before the war, Iraq agreed to destroy many of those missiles, but those highly publicized actions were not enough to convince the United States that Iraq was in compliance with United Nations sanctions. In fact, the evidence suggests that Iraq was seeking to upgrade to missiles with greater range and accuracy than the older, Scud-based Samoud.
 After the war, the Iraq Survey Group found evidence that Iraq had agreed to pay North Korea $10 million for technical support to upgrade its ballistic missile program in violation of the sanctions. But American officials believe that North Korea never actually delivered anything to the Iraqis, even though it apparently kept Iraq's $10 million. By contrast, the Iraq Survey Group found evidence that the Russian missile engineers actually did provide technical support for the Iraqis for years.
 The Bush administration's reluctance to raise publicly the issue of Russian support for Iraq's missile program appears to stem from the White House's effort to cultivate better diplomatic relations with Moscow, particularly in the wake of last year's tensions over the war in Iraq. Russia opposed the war, but President Bush and Mr. Putin have still developed a good personal relationship, and there seems much less residual tension between Washington and Moscow over the war than there does between the United States and France and Germany.
 Since the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the United States has also appeared more willing to view Russia's fight with separatists in Chechnya as part of the global war on terror. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (94%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DESERT STORM (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (67%) United States International Relations; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) United Nations

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%) Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; George W (Pres) Bush; Saddam Hussein; James Risen

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (73%) Iraq; Russia; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



100 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Senate Panel Shaves Bush's Military Budget

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4 

 BODY:
The Senate Budget Committee voted Thursday night to shave $7 billion in military spending off President Bush's request, even as lawmakers acknowledged there would be heavy pressure to restore the money when the full Senate takes up the matter next week. 
 Senator Don Nickles, the budget committee chairman and author of the resolution approved in a 12-to-10 party-line vote, acknowledged that the final budget that Congress produces might come ''very close'' to giving Mr. Bush his entire request for $421 billion in military spending.
 ''My guess is there are going to be some adjustments,'' Mr. Nickles, of Oklahoma, said. 
 Also, in the House on Thursday, the budget committee chairman, Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa, came under growing pressure to back off a proposed $2 billion reduction from the White House request for military spending.
 But some Republicans said they remained concerned about the size of both the deficit and Mr. Bush's military request. The $20 billion increase called for in Mr. Nickles's resolution is ''enough to adequately fund defense,'' said Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire. That is especially true, Mr. Gregg said, considering that the plan budgets an additional $30 billion for continued operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Mr. Nickles said his budget resolution would cut the deficit to $202 billion by 2009, a 58 percent drop from this year, while spurring the economy. ''That's pretty good deficit-reduction work,'' he said.
 Democrats described the resolution as a fanciful plan that was nearly as bad as the White House budget in ignoring the dire fiscal problems the nation will face as baby boomers begin to retire after the turn of the decade, straining Social Security and Medicare at the same time that Mr. Bush intends for his tax cuts to be made permanent.
 ''We have to go back to the drawing board here and have much less added to the debt, eliminate the increases to the deficits that are called for,'' said Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the ranking Democrat on the committee.
 Republicans rejected efforts by Democrats to trim the deficit and to enact rules making it harder to cut taxes or add spending without making up the difference elsewhere. Democrats on the panel also lost an effort to make it harder for Congress to approve a proposed $80 billion in tax cut extensions over five years.
 Mr. Nickles's resolution budgets $814 billion for so-called discretionary programs, which include defense, domestic security, and most domestic programs. That is $9 billion less than what Mr. Bush is seeking -- including a $2 billion cut in Mr. Bush's request for domestic programs -- though the proposal largely tracks the White House budget.
 The remainder of the $2.4 trillion in the resolution includes spending on mandatory entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security as well as interest on the national debt.
 It also calls for $144 billion in tax cuts over five years, including extensions of the $1,000 child tax credit, expansion of the 10 percent tax rate, elimination of the so-called ''marriage penalty,'' a one-year reduction in the number of people who pay the alternative minimum tax, and an acceleration of the repeal of the estate tax, to 2009. The estate tax would still be reinstated in 2011. 
 The budget resolution is not binding and does not carry the force of law, but it does establish the framework for the actual tax and spending legislation Congress will consider, and it creates parliamentary procedures that could affect the outcome of that legislation. 
 Lawmakers in both the Senate and House are grappling with election-year pressures to appear strong on defense during a time of war while also being responsive to voters' worries about the $478 billion deficit.
 At a meeting of Republican House members, some lawmakers pressed Mr. Nussle on Thursday morning to restore the $2 billion he has proposed cutting from the White House military request. Even with the proposed reduction, the budget offered by Mr. Nussle would increase military spending by 6.6 percent and budget an additional $50 billion for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan -- something the Bush proposal does not provide for.
 Led by the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Representative Duncan Hunter, Republican of California, 34 House members told Mr. Nussle it would be ''unfathomable'' to reduce Mr. Bush's military request.
 ''As a nation at war,'' they wrote in a letter, ''we have a responsibility to reject any argument to consider defense as just another mere claimant to the federal treasury.'' 
 A House Budget Committee spokesman, Sean Spicer, said, ''We are working with members in our conference to ensure we have the proper level of defense spending.'' 
 John Feehery, a spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, said, ''The speaker supports the budget chairman and what the budget chairman is trying to do, which is trying to get the budget passed.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, at a Senate Budget Committee meeting yesterday on military spending. Senator Don Nickles, the Oklahoma Republican who is chairman of the panel, is at left. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BABY BOOMERS (73%) United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (73%); JIM NUSSLE (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%) Richard A Jr Oppel; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



101 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Bush Campaigns Amid a Furor Over Ads

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and JIM RUTENBERG; Richard W. Stevenson reported from Santa Clara, and Jim Rutenberg from Washington.

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Calif., March 4 

 BODY:
President Bush completed the second day of a campaign swing through California on Thursday, with pointed emphasis on his credentials as commander in chief and a robust defense of his tax cuts. 
 But throughout the day his aides were scrambling to counter criticism that his first television commercials crassly politicized the tragedy of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 The criticism -- from a firefighters union, relatives of victims and allies of Senator John Kerry -- put the Bush campaign in an uncomfortable position at a time when it had hoped to begin defining the incumbent in contrast to his challenger. Mr. Bush's father had followed a similar strategy, flying into Bill Clinton territory in Arkansas in March 1992, before Mr. Clinton had nailed down the nomination. 
 On Thursday, the Republican counteroffensive began with Mr. Bush's former communications director, Karen P. Hughes, who appeared on all the major morning news programs and defended the commercials that were first broadcast that day. Two of them show the charred shell of the World Trade Center, and one also shows firefighters removing shrouded remains from ground zero.
 Discussing the campaign on CNN, Ms. Hughes said: ''I think it's very tasteful. It's a reminder of our shared experience as a nation. I mean, September 11th is not just some distant tragedy from the past; it really defined our future.''
 The complaints were amplified on cable news after The Daily News in New York put them on its front page. The cable and broadcast news networks featured a series of victims' relatives who thought the spots were inappropriate and others who did not.
 On MSNBC, Andrew Rice of Oklahoma, whose brother David died in the south tower of the World Trade Center, said he thought the image of ''a real dead body,'' was ''irresponsible to use in such a context.'' 
 But Deena Burnett, whose husband, Thomas, was killed on United Airlines Flight 93, said of the images: ''I'm glad to see they're being used. I think it serves as a great reminder of those that died.''
 By day's end, the Bush campaign had issued a statement from Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City, supporting Mr. Bush's right to invoke the attacks.
 The current mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, who like Mr. Giuliani is a Republican, told reporters that he had not seen the spots, but that he did not ''have a problem if people remind the country and the world about the sacrifices that the New York City fire department and police department and civilians made.''
 Late Thursday afternoon, the International Association of Fire Fighters, which supported Mr. Kerry in the primaries, called on the campaign to stop showing the commercials, as did Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey.
 Mr. Kerry kept mum on the brewing controversy, though his staff sent an e-mail message to reporters that included a quote from a 2002 Associated Press article in which Mr. Bush, in seeking more money from Congress to fight terrorism, vowed, ''I have no ambition whatsoever to use this as a political issue.''
 Mr. Bush's aides said that they would not pull the commercials and that the battle over them could even work to their advantage by focusing new attention on what they said was the president's forceful response to the attacks and the continued threat from terrorists. 
 They said the controversy had been expected and was serving their aim of changing the debate from Democratic turf like health care and jobs to Mr. Bush's strongest suit, national security.
 ''Are we on the Democrats' issue of health care, or are we on the Republican issue of national security?'' said one Republican official with ties to the campaign. ''On Wednesday we rolled out the spot -- we changed the tone fundamentally. They missed the opportunity to tell the American people what the campaign is about. This is how the president has framed the question before the American people.''
 But Democrats said they did not believe that the president's aides had expected this much furor.
 ''We're not debating national security -- we're debating tastelessness and a willingness to offend stricken families for political purposes,'' said Jim Jordan, Mr. Kerry's former campaign manager and a spokesman for the Media Fund, a Democratic advocacy group. ''Being accused of insensitivity by the widow of a 9/11 victim is a bad thing -- no matter how you slice it.''
 Even some Republicans expressed worry. Nelson Warfield, a Republican consultant who was the press secretary for Senator Bob Dole's presidential campaign in 1996, said: ''I think everyone agrees an asset for Bush is his performance in the aftermath of the terror attacks, and if this spot raises those issues in the debate, it's a positive. But it's certainly a risky move. So far the media is beating him up pretty aggressively.''
 Mr. Bush and his aides have planned for more than a year to make the president's response to the terrorist attacks the centerpiece of his re-election effort. The reaction to the use of World Trade Center images suggested that the wounds of that day made it a delicate topic for political debate. It also suggested that Mr. Kerry's campaign intended to battle Mr. Bush fiercely over his claim to the mantle of commander in chief in the war on terrorism.
 But it complicated efforts by Republicans to seize the initiative after months in which Mr. Bush has often been on the defensive.
 Mr. Bush did not mention the commercials during a stop in Bakersfield, Calif., to talk about the economy. Nor did he bring it up at a fund-raiser here, where he used humor, pointed critiques and solemn pledges about his dedication to protecting the nation to draw distinctions between himself and Mr. Kerry, the likely Democratic nominee.
 Mr. Bush sought to define himself as optimistic about returning the country to prosperity and experienced at protecting it from terrorism, while suggesting that Mr. Kerry was erratic, intent on raising taxes and driven by expediency.
 ''Voters have a clear choice between keeping the tax relief that is moving this economy forward or putting the burden of higher taxes back on the American people,'' Mr. Bush told donors here. ''They have a clear choice between an America that leads the world with strength and confidence or an America that is uncertain in the face of danger. I look forward to setting those alternatives before the American people.''
 Mr. Bush, the son of a president and the grandson of a senator, castigated Mr. Kerry as a Washington insider who has been in Congress so long that he has taken both sides on just about every issue.
 Playing to one of the greatest advantages enjoyed by any incumbent, Mr. Bush suggested that now is not the time for the United States to change direction at home or abroad.
 ''Great events will turn on this election,'' he said. ''The man who sits in the Oval Office will set the course of the war on terror and the direction of our economy. The security and prosperity of America are at stake.''
 On domestic policy, Mr. Bush credited his tax cuts with nursing the economy back to health after a recession that was getting under way as he took office. He said Mr. Kerry would risk hurting the recovery by raising taxes and return the nation to an era of intrusive big government.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday about a rally in Santa Clara, Calif., where President Bush attended a fund-raiser, described the crowd incorrectly. It included detractors of Mr. Bush, not just supporters.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Karen P. Hughes, President Bush's former communications director, above, yesterday defended the use of Sept. 11 images in campaign advertisements, saying, ''I think it's very tasteful.'' At right, supporters rallied in Santa Clara, Calif., where Mr. Bush attended a fund-raiser. (Photo by CNN)
 (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (84%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MAYORS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (76%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); CABLE INDUSTRY (68%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (60%); AIRLINES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation; Terrorism; Election Issues; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (59%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) Richard W Stevenson; Jim Rutenberg; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



102 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Monetary Fund Chief Is Expected to Be President of Germany

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, March 4 

 BODY:
The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Horst Kohler, was poised on Thursday to become Germany's next president after his nomination early in the day by a coalition of conservative parties.
 The Social Democratic Party of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder also named its candidate, Gesine Schwan, a university president in Frankfurt an der Oder.
 But the conservatives have a substantial majority in the Federal Assembly, the special commission that chooses the German president, seemingly assuring a victory for Mr. Kohler when the voting, on May 23, takes place. 
 Mr. Kohler announced his resignation from the monetary fund on Thursday, surprising nearly everyone at the 183-nation institution. 
 ''I accepted the nomination with a laughing and a crying eye, as we say in German,'' said Mr. Kohler at a news conference in Washington. ''I fully expected to stay at the I.M.F. and continue working on our unfinished agenda.''
 He leaves a year before his term was scheduled to end in May 2005. Among his accomplishments were overseeing debt crises in Brazil and Turkey and expanding debt relief for the world's poorest countries. He had less success resolving the continuing debt problems in Argentina.
 ''His resignation will make a significant difference at a time when the I.M.F. faces serious challenges,'' said Michael Mussa, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
 Mr. Kohler will be the ninth person since the end of World War II to hold the German presidency, which is a largely ceremonial post but one that is seen in this country to have a great deal of moral authority to influence the nature of public discourse.
 The president is the only public official in Germany who lives in a state-owned palace, Schloss Bellevue in Berlin, and he represents the country on state visits, public holidays and other occasions.
 The current president, Johannes Rau, a Social Democrat, announced several weeks ago that he would step down, a move that many people here assume was prompted by the conservative majority on the presidential election commission.
 Mr. Kohler, 61, was named Thursday morning after several days of contentious debate among the three conservative parties that share power in the national governing coalition: the Christian Democratic Union, the Christian Social Union and the smaller Free Democratic Party. 
 Earlier, the leading group in the coalition, the Christian Democrats, had announced that the nominee would be Wolfgang Schauble, their former national chairman and a prominent legislator. But the Free Democrats opposed his choice, and the parties deliberated nearly through the night before naming Mr. Kohler.
 Mr. Kohler, who has been the managing director of the monetary fund since 2000, was deputy finance minister in the government of Chancellor Helmut Kohl. He was also one of the chief negotiators of the Maastricht Treaty of 1992, which created the terms for the euro, the European currency.
 Mr. Kohler, the seventh of eight children in a German family, was born in 1943 in Skierbieszow, a small town in southeastern Poland. The family moved to East Germany after World War II and escaped to the West in 1954.
 He got his doctorate in economics from the University of Tubingen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); WORLD WAR II (50%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%) Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (54%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: HORST KOHLER (91%); GERHARD SCHRODER (58%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (57%) Horst Kohler; Richard Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



103 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Growth Slowed In Last Quarter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Worker productivity grew last quarter at the slowest pace in a year, the Labor Department said yesterday, suggesting that companies might increase hiring as the economy strengthens. Per-hour output of work rose at a 2.6 percent annual rate from October through December, less than the government's initial estimate last month and down from 9.5 percent in the third quarter. 
 In addition, first-time claims for unemployment insurance fell by 7,000, to 345,000, last week, near a three-year low. The less-volatile four-week average of claims dropped to 352,250 from 355,250.
 Today, the Labor Department is scheduled to report the unemployment rate for February. Economists in a Bloomberg survey expect an increase of about 130,000 jobs. 
 In other economic news, factory orders excluding transportation equipment rose 1.4 percent in January; orders for goods other than transportation equipment rose in January after jumping 1.9 percent in December, reflecting increased demand for computers, appliances, electronics and capital equipment, Commerce Department figures showed. Including transportation, factory orders dropped 0.5 percent after a 1.8 percent rise in December.
 Sales at chain store retailers including Wal-Mart Stores and Target rose more than forecast last month. Wal-Mart, Target and other chain retailers said February sales at stores open at least a year rose more than expected as shoppers used federal tax refunds and bought spring clothing amid warmer weather. Wal-Mart said its United States sales rose 6.2 percent. Target reported that sales increased 7.5 percent, and J.C. Penney said department store sales surged 12 percent.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''U.S. Productivity''Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses. 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted.4th Qtr. RevisedChange at annual rateTo: +2.6%From: +2.7Graph tracks index from 1999 to 2003.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)Chart: ''Factory Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.Jan.: -0.5%Dec.: +1.8Nov.: -0.9Graph tracks manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted from August 2002 to January 2004.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); RETAILERS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); STATISTICS (77%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%) United States Economy; Labor; Productivity; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment Insurance; Factories and Industrial Plants; Retail Stores and Trade; United States Economy; Sales

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%); WAL-MART STORES INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department; Wal-Mart; Target Corp 

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%); WMT (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (70%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



104 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5; Cold Spring Journal

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: A Sequel for an Endangered Bookstore?

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: COLD SPRING, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In this storybook village dotted with antique shops and gingerbread-trimmed cottages, residents and tourists have been mourning the imminent demise of yet another independent bookstore.
 With its wide-planked floors painted a pale gray and in-depth offerings in history and political science, Salmagundi Books is a favorite place to browse after taking in the Hudson River scenery at the foot of Main Street, a cerebral crossroads for writers and artists in the area. Perhaps more important, it is also the last general-interest bookstore in Putnam County.
 But it looks as though there might be a sequel to Salmagundi after all. 
 Scott Meyer, who owns two independent bookstores in neighboring Dutchess County, said he hoped to take over the space in late spring. Mr. Meyer has not signed a lease on the 1,000-square-foot space, at 66 Main Street, but he said he was negotiating details with the landlord now. 
 ''It's going to be great,'' Mr. Meyer said of his future shop, which will probably be called Merritt Bookstore Vol. III. (His shop in Millbrook is Merritt Bookstore; the one in Red Hook is Merritt Bookstore Vol. II.)
 For weeks, area residents were on tenterhooks waiting to see whether Salmagundi could be saved or a replacement found.
 Caroline Krebs, the owner, said she was reluctantly closing the store after years of trying to compete first with Barnes & Noble, up Route 9 in Dutchess County, and then with Amazon.com. After careers in academia and journalism, Ms. Krebs opened the store in a 19th-century brick building in 1985 as Cold Spring was evolving into a tourism destination.
 Many of her customers said they were not sure what was more worrisome: the loss of Salmagundi, a favorite haunt, or the prospect that the county, a rapidly growing area 60 miles north of Manhattan, would be without a single outlet for new books. (There is at least one seller of old and rare books, Antipodean Books, Maps and Prints, in neighboring Garrison.)
 ''It's a little frightening,'' Joyce Picone, director of the Putnam Arts Council, a nonprofit group, said before word of a second life for the store.
 The only other independent bookshop in the county, Putnam Book Center, in the town of Carmel, closed at the end of December. While the big chain booksellers, namely Borders Books and Music and Barnes & Noble, have stores just beyond the county's borders in Danbury, Conn.; Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; and northern Westchester County, they have not come to Putnam.
 Putnam's assistant county executive, Frank J. Del Campo, described the county's retailing conundrum. With a population of only 96,000 and a distinctly rural character despite a housing expansion in recent years, Putnam has been a bit of a wallflower in the eyes of some big chains. ''I've cajoled them to come,'' he said, but they want a certain number of people ''within a five-mile radius.''
 A director of development for Barnes & Noble, Donald W. Kuszmar, said that Putnam County was served by its store in Mohegan Lake, in northwest Westchester. 
 Compared to its neighbors, Putnam is so small that the chain store outlets do not seem terribly distant.
 But Putnam's encirclement by the chain booksellers and other national retailers has wounded local businesses, Mr. Del Campo said, including the independent bookshops. ''A lot of our downtown mom and pops are being threatened,'' he said. 
 It was clear that for some shoppers in Salmagundi recently, those larger economic forces have upended their sense of place. 
 As Caryl Greenblatt, who was visiting from White Plains, poked around the tables of discounted books, the late-winter light slanted through the paned windows. The only sounds were the ticking of baseboard heaters and the creaking of floorboards.
 ''It's indicative of our new society,'' Ms. Greenblatt, a retired teacher, said, smiling grimly. ''It's happening with CVS and the local pharmacies, too. We're losing our personalities, our uniqueness. Each town is a rubber stamp of the next town.''
 She and her husband, Richard Harrison, used to live in Putnam County, and Salmagundi has drawn them in on return visits. Sprinkled throughout the store are personal touches like a throw rug and an antique desk. ''Look at the brick walls,'' Ms. Greenblatt said. ''Look at the person behind the counter. It's like going home.''
 Nationwide, the number of small bookshops has plummeted in the last decade. The membership of the American Booksellers Association, a group in Tarrytown representing independent bookstores, has fallen to about 2,000 from 4,300 in the early 1990's, said Oren J. Teicher, the organization's chief operating officer.
 These are numbers Ms. Krebs understands all too well. ''I was waiting for Amazon to go broke and after a while you sort of have to wake up and realize that's not going to happen,'' she said. ''The numbers just didn't add up anymore. Everybody's dream is having a bookstore, and that dream has gone sour.'' 
 Ms. Krebs said she planned to move to Kentucky, where two of her five children live. Before advertising the store's closing, she wrote 52 personal notes to friends and loyal patrons. 
 ''Sometimes it's like being at your own wake,'' Ms. Krebs said of the customers who come in now. ''They're crying, and I start crying.'' 
 Despite throngs of tourists on sun-kissed weekends, Cold Spring can be a tough market. Fewer than 2,000 people live in the village, and inclement weather can keep visitors away. So how will Mr. Meyer make the business work?
 He said he hoped the store would become a ''living part of the community,'' with events for schoolchildren, poetry readings and book signings. But he has no illusions. ''I know that I'm not going to make a lot of money,'' he said. ''We live by pennies, not large amounts.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Caroline Krebs, who opened her store in 1985, says she is closing after years of trying to compete with Barnes & Noble and Amazon.com. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (92%); COUNTIES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MUSIC STORES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (57%) Books and Literature; Computers and the Internet; Shutdowns (Institutional)

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (84%); AMAZON.COM INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Salmagundi Books (Cold Spring, NY); Barnes & Noble Inc; Amazon.com Inc

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (84%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%)

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro; Scott (Bookstore Owner) Meyer; Caroline Krebs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Cold Spring (NY); Putnam County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



105 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Court Backs Plan for State to Repay City's Debt

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPERand AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 4 

 BODY:
New York City's plan to have the state pay back the last $2.5 billion of the city's debt from the fiscal crisis of the 1970's can proceed with some changes, the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court ruled here on Thursday. 
 But even as the city was proclaiming victory in the case, the state authority that would be responsible for paying off the debt said it would appeal the decision to the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals.
 The plan to have the state take over the debt was one of the few concrete pieces of state aid that the city was promised last year as it sought to dig itself out of a multibillion-dollar budget deficit. While most of the state aid package simply gave the city permission to tax itself more, the decision to have the state take over the city's debt would save the city half a billion dollars a year over the next five years. 
 The plan to assume the debt was passed by the Democratic-controlled State Assembly and the Republican-controlled State Senate over the veto. of Gov. George E. Pataki. It was to work this way: the city would create a corporation to borrow $2.5 billion to pay off its remaining 1970's debt, and a little-known state authority, controlled by Mr. Pataki, a Republican, and State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, a Democrat, would be directed to pay the city $170 million a year over 30 years to pay off the new debt.
 Although officials in both houses of the Legislature said they were pleased that the court had basically signed off on their plan to have the state assume the city's debt, an official in the Senate indicated it was open to other proposals to relieve the city of the debt payments. The city, however, has rejected several alternative plans proposed by Mr. Pataki, saying they would not provide the same benefit as the Legislature's. 
 The plan has been hotly debated since it was passed last May. While city officials praised the plan, saying it would save a much-needed $500 million a year that could be spent on vital services, some fiscal monitors expressed concern that the city's disco-era debt was being spread into the far-off 2030's. 
 Soon after it passed, the governor moved to block the plan. The Local Government Assistance Corporation, the state authority that was to make the annual payments of $170 million, sued to stop the deal, declaring that the plan was not only fiscally irresponsible, but unconstitutional as well. A lower court judge, Louis C. Benza of State Supreme Court in Albany, sided with the city in August.
 Before the city could move to sell the bonds to refinance its old debt, though, the state appealed. The case was argued in November. On Thursday, the Appellate Division ruled that the plan could proceed. The Appellate Division did find that part of the law was unconstitutional -- a provision that said the Local Government Assistance Corporation would automatically pay the $170 million a year to pay down the debt without an annual appropriation by the Legislature. But the court decided simply to strike that section and declared the rest of the law legal.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who is counting on the refinancing to save the city $500 million in the fiscal year ending June 30, and another $500 million next year, praised Thursday's decision. ''We are pleased that the Appellate Division affirmed the decision of the State Supreme Court, and we are confident that the Court of Appeals will agree with these two courts and rule that the bond issuance is legal and constitutional,'' he said. ''Issuing the bonds will allow us to provide the vital city services that New Yorkers rely on so our economic recovery can continue.''
 But the board of the Local Government Assistance Corporation said the debt refinancing was ''bad public policy that would burden hard-working taxpayers and saddle our children, and even our grandchildren, with billions of dollars of debt costs for borrowing that occurred in the 1970's.'' The board said it believed that its appeal would prevent the city from issuing the new bonds until the high court decides the matter.
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, said the court had ''delivered a victory for the people of New York City, for the financial stability of the city's budget and for the city's continued recovery and resurgence.''
 But a Senate official signaled a willingness to drop the plan if the parties involved could agree on a negotiated settlement, as Mr. Pataki has long proposed. ''We're pleased that the court agreed with our approach,'' said John McArdle, a Senate spokesman. ''However, what's more important is that we resolve this so that the city and the state can equally benefit and we can move on to other important matters.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPEALS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); CITIES (73%); JUDGES (72%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Decisions and Verdicts

PERSON: Michael Cooper; Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



106 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8; Residential Real Estate

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: New Chelsea Rental Complex, and Maybe More to Come

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
A two-building, 337-apartment rental complex beginning to rise on 23rd Street between 10th and 11th Avenues is the third, and the largest, residential project on the block since a 1999 rezoning of a slice of West Chelsea to housing from manufacturing prompted a development spurt.
 The current project will take shape by the spring of 2005 on a site at 555 West 23rd Street that extends to 24th Street. The two buildings, one 14 stories and the other 13, will overlook a central courtyard and contain studio, one- and two-bedroom market-rate apartments and a single three-bedroom penthouse. Douglaston Development of Queens is developing the $120 million complex with the owners of the site, Real Evergreen International and GTM Realty Associates. 
 The new development follows two others on the block, the Tate, a 313-apartment mixed-income rental complex, and the Marais, with 107 co-op apartments. Two more projects, both envisioned as 13-story condominiums, are planned. One is to have 8 apartments, the other fewer than 50.
 Further development in the area could be spurred by a proposed zoning change to residential and commercial for a larger manufacturing area around West 23rd Street. The change could lead to construction of as many as 4,200 residences, including some for low- and moderate-income families, said Rachaele Raynoff, spokeswoman for the New York City Department of City Planning. The area is bounded roughly by 10th and 11th Avenues and 16th to 30th Streets.
 The rezoning would allow loftlike buildings of 10 to 15 stories along the avenues and on some mid-blocks, Ms. Raynoff said. Buildings of 20 to 30 stories, including some that could contain affordable housing, would be permitted at the area's northern and southern ends. She said the rezoning would also preserve the existing art gallery district by limiting development there and would encourage the reuse of the High Line, the abandoned elevated freight rail line that runs through West Chelsea, as a greenway.
 Jeffrey E. Levine, who heads Douglaston Development, said he got involved with the 555 West 23rd Street site in 2002 because of its desirable location in a neighborhood that was ''a destination.''
 Other factors, he added, included the 1999 rezoning, which allowed the current project to be built without any special permits or variances, as well as the two initial residential projects on the block, which ''set the path.'' The proposed rezoning, he added, would also benefit the 23rd Street buildings because it would add more housing to the area.
 Initially, the project was conceived as a so-called 80-20 rental complex. Eighty percent of the apartments would have been leased at market rates, and the remaining 20 percent reserved for low- and moderate-income families in return for tax-free bond financing from the state and a 20-year tax abatement from the city.
 The request for public financing prompted a review by the state's Department of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation. Catherine Jimenez, a department spokeswoman, said the agency found that two vacant Beaux Arts-style warehouses that occupied much of the development site were deemed eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places.
 Because the warehouses, built in the early 1900's, could not easily be converted to housing and the process of getting permission to demolish them and still qualify for state tax-free bond financing could have been so lengthy, Mr. Levine said, he chose to forgo the government underwriting.
 He said the project still worked economically because he secured conventional financing from the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company at an interest rate of 4 percent, and also had received a 10-year tax abatement from the city.
 The apartments at 555 West 23rd Street will have 500 to 1,200 square feet of space. Nancy Packes, president of Halstead/Feathered Nest Leasing Consultant and the project's leasing adviser, said that if leased today they would rent for at least $50 a square foot or $2,708 for a typical 650-square-foot one-bedroom apartment.
 The complex, designed by the Stephen B. Jacobs Group, will be clad with rusticated brick and feature large industrial-scale windows. The 23rd Street facade also will be crenelated at the upper floors and edged at the roofline by metal grillwork.
 Inside, a two-story glass atrium will provide residents access to such amenities as a lounge, a physical fitness room and the landscaped courtyard that will link the buildings.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of 555 West 23rd Street in Chelsea, designed by Stephen B. Jacobs, to be developed by Douglaston Development of Queens. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); FAMILY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); CITIES (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); RAIL FREIGHT (50%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (50%) Housing; Zoning

ORGANIZATION: Douglaston Development (Corp)

PERSON: Rachelle Garbarine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



107 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: Haitian-Americans Can Help Rebuild

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your March 4 editorial ''Hard Realities in Haiti'' is right on target. I hope that you are correct in thinking that the Bush administration may be reckoning with the need to invest in nation-building in Haiti. It should give serious consideration to involving skilled and qualified Haitian-American men and women in this effort from the very beginning. 
 The reason is simple: of all the parties interested in developing a democratic and economically viable Haiti, Haitian-Americans have the most stakes in the outcome. With close to $1 billion in remittances a year, they have sustained life in Haiti at a far higher level than bilateral or multilateral donors. 
 Political stability, the rule of law and respect for life, property and basic rights in Haiti would be their greatest reward and of great benefit to the United States. 

JOCELYN MCCALLA
Executive Director, National
Coalition for Haitian Rights
New York, March 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COALITION FOR HAITIAN RIGHTS (59%) National Coalition for Haitian Rights

PERSON: Jocelyn Mccalla; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (96%) Haiti

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



108 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Is Hard Work Enough to Escape From Poverty?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''More Than Money'' (column, March 2), David Brooks says, ''If you graduate from high school, wait until marriage to have kids and work full time (at whatever job), it is almost certain that you will not remain poor.''
 I have a friend with most of the credits for a master's degree. He also has a minimum wage job with no benefits and no chance for advancement. For years after graduating from college, I held similar jobs. Then I became a computer programmer. Now I am an unemployed computer programmer.
 Like so many others in our circumstances, my friend and I have no illegitimate children. Many of the hardest working, most responsible people in this country are desperately poor. Those who cannot see them are not looking.

JOHN ENGELMAN
Wilmington, Del., March 2, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (87%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: John Engelman; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%) DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



109 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Jobless Rate Rises To 8.4 Percent

BYLINE: By Stacy Albin (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
The city's unemployment rate rose in January to 8.4 percent, up from 8.1 percent in December, despite some modest job creation, the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., said yesterday. The city has continued to lag behind the rest of the country in recovering from the recession, Mr. Thompson said. The largest increase in job growth occurred in the information sector. Stacy Albin (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (88%) Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: Stacy Albin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



110 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Budget Director Says City Can't Keep Up With Deficits

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
To hear Mark Page tell it, New York City's budget glass is most definitely half empty.
 Yes, the city closed yawning deficits once predicted for this year and next, but numerous trap doors remain. Yes, tax revenues are up, but they will never keep pace with the rising costs of Medicaid, debt service, and pensions and health benefits for city workers, many a result of expensive projects and labor contracts from long ago.
 ''It's sort of odd,'' Mr. Page, the city's budget director, said yesterday. ''We're at a position where it feels as though things ought to be better. Yet we're faced with this legacy of what's gone before, in terms of fixed costs that we have no choice but to cover.'' 
 Mr. Page's comments led off the first day of City Council hearings on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed $46 billion budget for the fiscal year that starts in July. They contrasted with the sunnier viewpoints of some Council members and fiscal watchdogs who also testified.
 Where one side emphasized potential pitfalls that lie ahead, with an eye toward lowering expectations of pay raises for municipal workers and funds for new programs, the other side saw opportunities to enhance services for favored constituencies or reduce property taxes.
 Such is the start of the springtime dance between the mayor and the City Council, an annual rite that begins each year around this time and concludes with adoption of a budget in June. In recent years, the deliberations have often been rancorous, shaped by the need to close huge budget gaps by raising property and sales taxes, shutting firehouses and scaling back services.
 By comparison, this year's hearings are expected to be relatively tame. By all accounts, revenues are up, the economic outlook is guardedly optimistic and the debate is focusing not on raising taxes but on how deeply, and for whom, to cut them.
 Councilman David I. Weprin, chairman of the Finance Committee, suggested the city should forgo Mr. Bloomberg's $250 million plan to offer $400 property tax rebates to homeowners, in favor of a more expensive Council plan to roll back property taxes by 2 percent for everyone, including renters and businesses. The Council plan, which would cost $297 million, would also repeal last year's 18.5 percent property tax increase for elderly residents on fixed incomes.
 ''Don't you think it's not very good tax policy to give a rebate to only 30 percent of those eligible?'' Mr. Weprin asked the city finance commissioner, Martha E. Stark.
 Ms. Stark disagreed, saying that the Council's proposal would translate into just a $50 savings for most homeowners . 
 ''When we think about this stuff from a tax policy perspective, what we want to talk about is who actually sacrificed and who is going to benefit,'' she said.
 Councilman Michael E. McMahon wondered whether the city might be able to afford both tax-cut proposals, rather then just one. Other Council members sought restoration of what they called ''hidden cuts'' in Mr. Bloomberg's proposed budget, including $12 million for libraries, $8.5 million for health services, $10 million for summer youth jobs and $11 million for senior centers.
 Adding fuel to the calls for restored services and greater tax cuts were projections by Council finance officials and nonpartisan budget watchers of greater-than-expected revenues from taxes on Wall Street profits, retail sales and tourism. A report from the city's Independent Budget Office said that the city's economic outlook ''is markedly better'' and should translate into more money ''to fund new priorities or meet other needs.''
 In response to questioning that lasted several hours, Mr. Page repeatedly colored the city's fiscal canvas in muted tones, painting a decidedly autumnal horizon. He warned that expectations of $300 million in federal aid were ''problematic'' and noted that previous rosy predictions of higher Wall Street profits had proven to be greatly overblown.
 At one point, the normally laconic Mr. Page caught himself launching into a lengthy doomsday scenario of unchecked city borrowing for capital projects, fretting that ''even if we stopped the capital program this afternoon, it would take a number of years for the debt service costs to actually come down.''
 ''We get the benefit, somebody else gets the problem in the future,'' said Mr. Page, growing animated. ''On the other hand, here we sit, we've got the problem from all the guys behind us, what do you do with this -- I should stop.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Page, the city's budget director, said tax revenues may be up, but so are costs of Medicaid, pensions and city workers' health benefits. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); MEDICAID (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Mike Mcintire; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Mark Page

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004



111 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Gridiron on the Hudson? Block That Play!

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 As an architect, I am baffled and dismayed by our elected officials' relentless pursuit of a tax-subsidized Jets stadium on the West Side, this time couched with the Javits Center expansion (news article, March 2). 
 It represents the poorest urban planning of valuable New York real estate on the Hudson River that I can recall, as it does nothing for the waterfront or the neighborhood. 
 No one I have ever spoken to in all of the years of this proposal's existence has ever expressed anything positive about it, and all shrug it off as just another example of government graft. 
 If our elected officials wish to accomplish something commendable, they should use those resources for completion of the Second Avenue subway. 
 This would keep the construction crews employed and spur more economic development in the private sector, and the residents would reap the commuting benefits. Is that too much to ask?

WILLIAM FIGDOR
Maplewood, N.J., March 2, 2004


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Gilbert Ford)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); LAND USE PLANNING (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (56%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



112 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 564 words

PERSON: Marc L. Miringoff

HEADLINE: Marc L. Miringoff, 58, Dies; Measurer of Social Health

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Marc L. Miringoff, a professor who invented an index to better understand the nation's social health, died Thursday night at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 58.
 The cause has not been determined, said his wife, Marque Miringoff.
 Dr. Miringoff, an associate professor of social policy at Fordham University, founded the Fordham Institute for Innovation in Social Policy in 1985. He achieved prominence through the development of a new report card to measure the nation's well-being. 
 Dr. Miringoff argued that growth, inflation, interest rates and other standard economic variables were insufficient to adequately capture the state of the social fabric. So he compiled an alternative index, combining data ranging from child poverty and infant mortality to crime, access to health care and alcohol-related traffic deaths.
 In a lecture in 2001, he noted that if progress were to be measured only in terms of gross domestic product, the performance of the stock markets and other narrow economic measures we would be ''missing most of what makes life miserable, interesting or good.'' His new indicator painted a novel picture of the nation's prosperity, confirming that economic growth and social progress did not always go hand in hand.
 Dr. Miringoff's social index plummeted to a low of 38 out of 100 in 1993, from a high of 77 of 100 in 1973, notwithstanding 20 years of per capita income growth. Since then, the nation has recorded progress, according to Dr. Miringoff's index, which jumped back to 54 in 2000 only to drop back to 46 in 2001. 
 ''It used to be that a rising tide lifted all boats, but at a certain point during the 70's, social health and per-capita income split apart,'' Dr. Miringoff said in an interview with The New York Times in 2000. ''And this may be the result of the new economy: the loss of steady, well-paid jobs with benefits for less-skilled blue collar workers.''
 Since the 1980's, other groups have developed alternative indexes of social health using different sets of variables. Dr. Miringoff's social health index was adopted by state officials in Connecticut to measure social problems and formulate policies. 
 But Dr. Miringoff remained concerned at what he saw as a lack of social progress. ''We really haven't created much in the way of a comprehensive social policy in America for 30 or 40 years,'' he said in 2001, when he peppered his audience at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism with statistics. He said that 17 percent of American children lived in poverty, and health insurance wages had worsened by 50 percent since 1970.
 ''The social health of the nation was declining even during the so-called prosperity,'' he said.
 Dr. Miringoff was interested in politics as well as academics. Bill Ayres, executive director of the group World Hunger Year and a close friend, said Dr. Miringoff met Al Gore during the 2000 presidential campaign. 
 Born in Brooklyn, Dr. Miringoff graduated from the State University of New York at Albany in 1967. He received a master's degree in social works from Rutgers University in 1969 and a Ph.D. in social welfare policy from the University of Chicago in 1976.
 Dr. Miringoff is survived by his wife; a brother, Lee Miringoff, the director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion; and a sister-in-law, Nancy Miringoff. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CHILDREN (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CHILD POVERTY (74%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (74%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); JOURNALISM (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (69%); INFANT MORTALITY (69%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); INTERVIEWS (62%); INTEREST RATES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



113 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Martha Stewart and Broker Are Convicted of Lying
Martha Stewart was found guilty of lying about the reasons she sold shares of a biotechnology company more than two years ago.
 Her co-defendant, Peter E. Bacanovic, her stockbroker, was also convicted. [Page A1.]

The 550 employees of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia began to confront a future without their founder. [A1.]

Lawyers for both sides told jurors that the outcome should turn on which version of events they believed. In the end, they seem to have heard only one story, that of the prosecution. News Analysis. [C1.]

For Peter E. Bacanovic, standing by his famous client with the knowledge that he could end up in jail represented the ultimate act of customer loyalty. [C4.]

Shares of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia fell 22.6 percent, or $3.17, to $10.86, largely after the verdict was announced. [C5.]

Scores of Americans interviewed randomly agreed that Martha Stewart was guilty. [C1.]

Television news organizations were reduced to the lowest of technology methods to announce the verdict -- cardboard and wool. [C5.]

U.S. Payrolls Grew by 21,000 Jobs
Job creation all but stalled in February. The economy added just 21,000 jobs last month, down sharply from January's increase. The unemployment rate held steady at 5.6 percent, the Labor Department said. [A1.]

The nation's employers remain reluctant to add jobs, holding off until the demand for a product or service is so great that a company has no choice but to hire, and then it adds as few people as possible. [A1.]

The employment report escalated the political war over the economy. [C1.]

The weak job creation numbers mean that the Federal Reserve will probably delay any rate increase for at least several more months if not for the rest of the year. [C3.]

Outsourcing is becoming a harder sell as more and more companies send jobs overseas. [C2.]

The Standard & Poor's 500 climbed 1.99 points, to 1,156.86, and the Dow industrials rose 7.55 points, to 10,595.55, but the Nasdaq composite fell 7.48 points, to 2,047.63. Bond prices rose and the dollar declined. [C6.]

Tyco Judge Dismisses a Charge
A State Supreme Court judge dismissed the most serious charge against L. Dennis Kozlowski and Mark H. Swartz, the former executives of Tyco International accused of stealing $600 million from Tyco and its shareholders. [C6.]

Sun's Credit Rating Cut by S.&P.
Shares of Sun Microsystems declined 36 cents, or 7 percent, to $4.80, after Standard & Poor's cut its credit rating. [C16.]

Shell Leader Declines to Comment
The chairman of Royal Dutch/Shell declined to say whether the company's former chairman and head of exploration and production had acted illegally, opting instead to wait for the result of an internal investigation. [C2.]

Volvo Car Is Designed for Women
Volvo has unveiled a car, known as the YCC, that is designed by women, for women. [C2.]

Settlement in a Tax Shelter Lawsuit
Jenkens & Gilchrist reached a $75 million settlement with investors who had sued the law firm over its role in tax shelters. [C16.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,595.55 up 7.55Nasdaq composite -- 2,047.63 down 7.4810-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.85% down 0.17The euro -- $1.2378 up 0.0190The dollar -- 112.02 yen up 0.96Graph tracks the Standard & Poor's 500 from Jan. 2003 - Feb. 2004.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (85%); JURY TRIALS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); JUDGES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LARCENY & THEFT (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); OUTSOURCING (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); BOND MARKETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (80%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (80%); RDSA (AMS) (80%); RDS.B (NYSE) (80%); RDS.A (NYSE) (80%); MSO (NYSE) (58%); TYC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (80%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (52%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



114 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Clash Of Titans

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
We're so full of it. We pretend to be a middle-class, democratic nation, but in reality we love our blue bloods. We love our Roosevelts, Rockefellers, Kennedys, Bushes, Deans and Gores. We love the prep school manners, the aristocratic calm, the Skull and Bones mystery, the dappled lawns stretching before the New England summer homes. How else can you explain the Bush vs. Kerry matchup that confronts us this year? 
 In Britain neither of these guys could lead a major party. Their upper-crust pedigrees would be disqualifying. But here in the land of Ralph Lauren wannabes, one all-scion campaign follows another. Here in the land of middle-class self-loathing, we want to make sure that the guy we elect to the White House has lived a life nothing like our own. 
 So you have one party, the Republican Party, the so-called party of the heartland, which won't nominate a guy unless he has a ranch the size of Oklahoma. Republicans don't think you're fit to govern unless you're on the north 40 every summer clearing brush. And then you have the Democrats, the so-called party of the people, who won't nominate a guy unless his family had an upper-deck berth on the Mayflower. 
 This year's nominee, John Kerry, is almost a parody of the East Coast establishment. He's descended from John Winthrop, the first governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, and his mother is a member of the famously haughty Forbes clan. He spent part of his childhood at a boarding school in Switzerland before his aunt, whose estate included a bowling alley inside the barn, sent him to then-snooty St. Paul's. 
 In 1962, Kerry sailed with President John Kennedy while visiting the Auchincloss estate. Then it was off to Yale, Skull and Bones, and Vietnam. 
 When he returned, he testified before Congress, and his accent was still so plummy he sounded like an antiwar version of Thurston Howell III. He went on to marry Julia Thorne, a jet-setting heiress with a family fortune of about $300 million, whose grandfather kept the entire island of Hilton Head, S.C., as a hunting preserve.
 Kerry's second wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, is worth over $500 million. Between them they have a $4 million mansion in Georgetown, a $6 million townhouse on Louisburg Square in Boston, a $6 million summer home on Nantucket, a $3 million estate in Pittsburgh and a $5 million ski lodge in Idaho, which is a 15th-century English barn that was disassembled and imported to the U.S.
 Most Democrats have trouble affording one home, so when they search for a leader who shares their values, of course they nominate a guy who is running for his sixth. Of course they nominate a guy whose 42-foot powerboat, the Scaramouche, sells for upward of $700,000. Of course they choose a guy famous for his Christophe haircuts and his Turnbull & Asser shirts. Of course they choose a couple who paid to have an unsightly fire hydrant moved from the front of their Boston house, and who sought to divert huge amounts of river water to supply their sprawling Idaho lawn. 
 This is the land of ''Masterpiece Theatre'' liberals and Town & Country conservatives. Sure, we want our toffs to flatter us, and abase themselves while campaigning at our diners and cheesesteak counters. We want our Republican candidates to embrace the cultural populism of the Bible Belt. We want our Democratic candidates to embrace the economic populism of the working class. The Democrats even have a campaign consultant, Bob Shrum, who has made a large fortune taking multizillionaires like Al Gore, John Kerry and others and making sure that they run for office as born-again proletarians. 
 But we don't actually want to be governed by people like ourselves. We want the bloodlines. 
 The anthropologist Lionel Tiger points out that in many primate communities, the offspring of high-status females are immediately accorded membership in the troop's elite.
 Tiger points out that politics is a visceral business. It's a tremendous advantage to have been instilled with the habit of self-assertion since infancy. If you can project a physiological comfort with power, others around you will begin to accept your sense of self-worth.
 There aren't too many normal people waking up in normal suburban split-levels assuming they should rule the world. But God bless the upper class. They've lost their legitimacy, but they haven't lost their self-confidence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (72%); BOWLING CENTERS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RALPH LAUREN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); SWITZERLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



115 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; THE JOB PICTURE: THE OVERVIEW

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: GROWTH IN JOBS IS STILL SLUGGISH DESPITE FORECAST

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Job creation all but stalled in February, surprising Wall Street forecasters and giving Democrats economic ammunition to use against President Bush as he begins his re-election campaign.
 The economy added just 21,000 jobs last month, down sharply from January's increase and far below the gains that were common in the 1980's and 1990's. The unemployment rate held steady at 5.6 percent, the Labor Department reported yesterday, but mostly because many people have stopped looking for work since late last year, removing them from the government's official count of the jobless.
 ''This is a disappointment,'' said Richard D. Rippe, chief economist of the Prudential Equity Group. ''It shows very sluggish job creation in an economy which by almost all other measures is really doing very well.''
 With the slump in the job market nearing its third anniversary, economists said they were starting to wonder whether the relationship between economic growth and employment had changed in important ways. At no other point since World War II has the economy grown for such a long period without adding jobs at a healthy pace. 
 The failure of the economy to add more jobs so far presents Mr. Bush with a prickly political problem. Last year, he and his aides predicted that the three tax cuts passed since he took office would lift the economy out of its torpor and restore vigorous job growth.
 In October, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow estimated that 200,000 jobs a month would be created over the coming 12 months; since then, the economy has added just 52,000 jobs a month on average, and the administration has distanced itself from the forecasts.
 ''We're not satisfied,'' N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''The labor market has started to turn -- it just hasn't turned enough.'' 
 Mr. Mankiw said that raising taxes now, as Senator John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, has proposed doing on families that make more than $200,000, would only weaken the economy further.
 Democrats responded that the Bush administration had tried stimulating the economy with little but tax cuts for high earners and that the strategy had not worked.
 ''You would think that after spending almost $3 trillion, you'd get more than 21,000 jobs,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois. ''The president has not only a fiscal deficit, but a jobs deficit and a credibility deficit.''
 The report offered little good news. Weekly wages for most of the work force have risen less than 2 percent over the last year, roughly the rate of inflation. In February, manufacturers cut the number of workers on their payrolls for the 43rd consecutive month. The average length of unemployment increased to 20.3 weeks, its highest level since 1984.
 The best reason for hope, economists said, was last month's unusually harsh weather, which might have led households to delay some spending and companies to postpone projects, setting the stage for a surge in jobs in March.
 Interest rates on Treasury notes fell yesterday more sharply than they had since 2001, as investors concluded that the Federal Reserve was now all but certain to postpone any increase in its benchmark short-term interest rate until near the end of the year at the earliest. The dollar lost value relative to the euro, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose slightly, to 1,156.86. 
 Companies have remained remarkably reluctant to add workers even though the economy grew at an annual rate of 6.1 percent during the second half of last year -- the fastest pace in almost two decades -- and growth, most economists estimate, has continued at a pace not much slower since the year began.
 New technologies have helped companies produce more goods with fewer employees. The uneven growth of the last four years also seems to have made some executives wary that the good times will continue, while others have shifted some jobs to countries with lower wages. And the rising cost of health insurance has made executives think twice about adding workers, they say.
 ''This is a different cycle,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez, an economic research firm in New York. ''To the extent that companies can squeeze another drop of blood out of their existing work force, they're doing it. Eventually you reach the point where there's no more blood to be given, but we haven't reached it yet.''
 When the economy grew at roughly its current rate during the 1980's and 1990's, monthly gains of more than 250,000 jobs were common. In February, messenger services, department stores, phone companies and food manufacturers all cut employment, according to the Labor Department, which adjusts its numbers to take into account normal seasonal variations. Restaurants, movie and music studios, and airlines created jobs, but overall employment in the private sector was flat. The government sector added 21,000 jobs, accounting for the entire net gain.
 In perhaps the clearest sign that the cold weather helped depress hiring, construction companies cut 24,000 positions.
 Since June, the Fed has kept its benchmark lending rate at 1 percent, a 50-year low, in an effort to encourage spending and shock the economy out of what has turned out to be -- while many degrees milder than the Depression -- the longest employment slump since the 1930's. After the release of yesterday's report, investors bet that the rate was likely to remain at 1 percent until at least the fall, based on the price of a futures contract tied to the benchmark rate.
 ''The pace of job growth remains well below anything approaching what the Fed would need to see to consider raising rates,'' Drew T. Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers, wrote to clients. ''The clock is currently not even plugged in.''
 The Labor Department also revised its estimates for December and January, reporting that the economy gained 105,000 jobs during those two months, not the 118,000 it originally found. Teenagers, Latino workers and recent college graduates have borne the brunt of the labor market's problems in recent months.
 Despite the meager job growth, the unemployment rate remained at 5.6 percent last month, down from a peak of 6.3 percent in June. The decline is partly a mirage, many economists say, reflecting the large number of people who are not looking for work and thus not counted as unemployed. If the same portion of Americans had been in the labor force last month as in June, the jobless rate would have been 6.4 percent.
 But some White House officials and Congressional Republicans have also begun arguing that job growth is in fact better than the Labor Department's monthly survey of businesses shows. They note that a survey of households, which produces the jobless rate, shows greater job gains over the last three years.
 Unlike the business survey, the household survey includes self-employed people, whose numbers have grown over the last year. But the growth in their ranks is not large enough to explain the difference in the two surveys. 
 Both Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and Kathleen P. Utgoff, the commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the agency that conducts the surveys, have said they consider the poll of businesses to be more accurate, although not perfect. It gathers information from 400,000 offices that employ 45 million workers, while the other survey asks questions of 60,000 households.
 Economists reiterated their projections yesterday that job growth would improve in the coming months, but some said they realized that they had now been saying the same thing for months. 
 ''There was a feeling out there that this was the month,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''Now everyone will say it's just a matter of time, and we'll say the same thing. But we don't know how much time.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, a front-page article on Saturday about the government's monthly employment report omitted a passage at the continuation in some copies. The affected section should have read: 
 ''In October, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow estimated that 200,000 jobs a month would be created over the coming 12 months; since then, the economy has added just 52,000 jobs a month on average, and the administration has distanced itself from the forecasts.''
 '' 'We're not satisfied,' N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, said in a telephone interview. 'The labor market has started to turn; it just hasn't turned enough.' ''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Consumer Borrowing''Graph tracks the net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding
in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted since Aug. 2002.Annual Rates of ChangeJan.: +8.6%Dec.: +5.0Nov.: +0.5(Source by Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C3)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in February''UNEMPLOYMENTGraph tracks the civilian unemployment rate from March 2003 - Feb. 2004.Civilian unemployment: 5.6 percentBY DEMOGRAPHICWhiteJan.: 4.9%Feb.: 4.9%BlackJan.: 10.5Feb.: 9.8Hispanic*Jan.: 7.3Feb.: 7.4Asian+Jan.: 5.2Feb.: 4.7Men 20 and overJan.: 5.1Feb.: 5.1Women 20 and overJan.: 5.0Feb.: 4.9Teenagers (16-19)Jan.: 16.7Feb.: 16.6OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalJan.: 8.3Feb.: 8.2Lost jobJan.: 4.4Feb.: 4.3Left jobJan.: 0.8Feb.: 0.8Returning to labor marketJan.: 2.5Feb.: 2.4New to labor marketJan.: 0.7Feb.: 0.7'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (millions)Working parttime, but want full-time workJan.: 4.7Feb.: 4.4'Marginally attached' workersSJan$.: 1.7Feb.: 1.7EMPLOYMENTGraph tracks the number of people employed from March 2003 - Feb. 2004.Nonfarm payroll survey: 130.2Household survey: 138.3 millionBY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmJan.: 130.1Feb.: 130.2GoodsJan.: 21.7Feb.: 21.7ServicesJan.: 108.4Feb.: 108.5AgricultureJan.: 2.2Feb.: 2.2SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedJan.: 62.4%Feb.: 62.2%Labor force (workers and unemployed)Jan.: 66.1Feb.: 65.9Figures are seasonally adjusted except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.SPeople$ not working but not counted as unemployed because they are not currently looking for work
 must have searched in the last 12 months and been available for work when surveyed. Includes discouraged workers.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); JOB CREATION (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INFLATION (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); WORLD WAR II (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



116 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-6

Shiite Leaders Refuse To Sign Constitution
Shiite leaders refused to sign Iraq's temporary constitution unless changes are made that would strengthen Shiite power, throwing the political process into disarray. A1

Kennedy Accuses Bush
Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts delivered a blistering indictment of President Bush's decision to go to war in Iraq, accusing him of deliberately exaggerating the threat posed by Saddam Hussein. A6

In the two years before the war in Iraq, American intelligence agencies reviewed but ultimately dismissed reports from Iraqi scientists, defectors and other informants who said Saddam Hussein's government did not possess illicit weapons, according to government officials. A6

Blair Defends Policies
Prime Minister Tony Blair argued that the possibility that Islamic militants might collaborate with countries that possessed unconventional weapons to carry out acts of terror justified an aggressive new standard in international law for breaching the sovereignty of nations. A6

Arson at Muslim Centers
A Muslim prayer center in France was destroyed and the annex of a nearby mosque was damaged in arson attacks. The local police said the fires were purposely set but declined to label them hate crimes. A2

Libya Stockpiled Mustard Gas
Libya disclosed that it had produced and stored some 23 tons of deadly mustard gas, according to an international disarmament body. A5

Russian Premier Is Approved
Mikhail Y. Fradkov was approved as prime minister by the Russian Parliament, four days after his unexpected appointment after little debate and only a cursory discussion of his policy goals. A3


NATIONAL A7-11, 16

Senator Kerry Is Accused Of Flip-Flopping on Issues
Republicans are attacking Senator John Kerry for espousing both sides of an issue. Some aides say his fluidity is the mark of an intellectual who grasps the subtleties of issues. A1

Mr. Bush, who is under intense criticism from Mr. Kerry and some relatives of the Sept. 11 victims for using images of the destroyed World Trade Center in his campaign commercials, will visit a 9/11 memorial in Long Island next week. A11

Questions on Water Quality
High levels of lead in Washington's drinking water prompted several members of Congress to charge that three separate agencies had misled the district's residents. A7

Gas Prices Soar
The national average for regular unleaded gas is $1.71 a gallon, just below the record of $1.73. Some experts see a potential for gas prices to rise to the $3 mark this summer. A7

Ashcroft in Intensive Care
Attorney General John Ashcroft was in intensive care because of a severe case of a pancreatic ailment. A9

White House Subpoenaed
The White House said it had received subpoenas in the investigation of the leak of an undercover C.I.A. officer's name and was suppling an array of information. A8

Reversal on Privacy
The Bush administration has set forth a new, more limited view of privacy rights as it tries to force hospitals and clinics to turn over records of abortions. A8

EDUCATION

Nepotism Charges for Leader
The New York City school system's highest-ranking instructional official, Diana Lam, took aggressive steps to get her husband hired by the school system without seeking clearance, city investigators said. B1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Mayor Is Said to Favor Legalizing Gay Marriage
Mayor Bloomberg, who has refused to disclose his personal views on gay and lesbian marriage, told 80 journalists at a lesbian and gay fund-raising dinner in Manhattan that he favored changing state law to legalize same-sex unions, according to people who attended the dinner. A1

Many gay couples are hoping to chip away at opposition to same-sex marriages among religious people by getting married in a church or synagogue with a marriage license in hand. A7

Marginalized on the Hill
Political analysts say that three Congressional representatives from New York have experienced a legislative slump due to the diminished stature of New York's heavily Democratic delegation in a Congress dominated by Republicans. B1

A Trim Here, a Trim There
The commissioner of the New York Department of Correction has announced a plan to begin charging $2 each for jailhouse haircuts, one of the ways the department intends to raise more than $2 million to help balance its budget. B1

Religion Journal B6

FASHION B8

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

OBITUARIES A13

ARTS & IDEAS B9-18

Gender's Influence on Pain
Men and women were willing to take more pain from a woman than from a man in experiments conducted by David Williams, a psychologist at the University of Westminster. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Martha Stewart Found Guilty
Martha Stewart was found guilty by a Manhattan jury of lying about the reasons she sold 3,928 shares of ImClone Systems more than two years ago. Her former Merrill Lynch stockbroker was also convicted. A1

Few New Jobs in February
Job creation all but stalled in February. The economy added just 21,000 jobs, down sharply from January. A1

A Dismissal in Tyco Case
A State Supreme Court judge dismissed the most serious charge against the two former executives of Tyco International. C6

Stocks Rise Slightly
The Dow rose 7.55 points, to close at 10,595.55,11.63 points above last week's close of 10,583.92. The Nasdaq fell 7.48 points, to 2,047.63, but rose 17.81 points from last week's close. C6

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Courtroom tales: of Martha's lies . . . and epic frauds; baseball's shame; missing witnesses.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B12
TV Listings B18
Crossword B16
Weather B7


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARSON (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SUBPOENAS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); RELIGION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); APPROVALS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (74%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); WATER QUALITY (60%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); LEAD (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); TED KENNEDY (72%); TONY BLAIR (69%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



117 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: For a Little Off the Top, City Ends Free Jail Haircuts

BYLINE: By PAUL von ZIELBAUER

 BODY:
New York City has jacked up property taxes. It has cut fire companies. Now, city officials are zeroing in on what may just be a final frontier of fiscal prudence: inmate haircuts on Rikers Island. 
 Like it or not, the tonsorial free ride in city jails will soon be over. At a City Council hearing yesterday, the correction commissioner said the city would begin charging $2 per jailhouse cut (sans wash or blow-dry). 
 Tapping the inmate economy for revenue is just one way the Correction Department intends to raise more than $2 million to help balance its budget over the next two years. 
 In discussing the fee-for-haircut policy at the hearing, Commissioner Martin F. Horn showed a ready command of jailhouse fashion statistics. Councilwoman Yvette D. Clarke, who heads the Fire and Criminal Justice Services Committee, had barely finished asking Mr. Horn how many haircuts are given at Rikers Island each year when Mr. Horn delivered the answer with a brief smile: 172,000. 
 ''That is amazing that you know that,'' Ms. Clarke said.
 But in thinking outside the traditional budget box, Mr. Horn has ventured well beyond cashing in on his jailhouse hair salon, where the barbers are also inmates and tips, in whatever form, are strictly prohibited. Mr. Horn also announced plans to charge inmates more to use jail telephones. 
 The telephone access charge, currently 25 cents per call, will increase to 37 cents, Mr. Horn said, raising an estimated $500,000 in additional revenue for the department over the next two years. And to raise an additional $1 million, the department will institute a 2-cent-per-minute fee for calls that exceed inmates' daily allowance of free calls. Inmates are currently allowed one free six-minute phone call a day, and up to 20 minutes of phone time every five hours.
 Mr. Horn called the new phone charges ''philosophically appropriate'' because the city had been subsidizing the calls for years. 
 But inmate advocates said charging for haircuts and increasing fees to use telephones -- the only means for many inmates to communicate with the outside world -- was punitive and coldhearted. 
 John Boston, director of the Legal Aid Society's Prisoners' Rights Project, said a survey taken several years ago showed that half of the city's inmates had less than $5 available to them. ''Calling these measures 'philosophically appropriate' is the height of hypocrisy,'' Mr. Boston said in an e-mail message yesterday. ''Cheap and ugly is more like it.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BARBER SHOPS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGAL AID (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); TELEPHONE RATES (76%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (73%) Prisons and Prisoners; Telephones and Telecommunications; Barbers and Barbering; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Corrections Department (NYC)

PERSON: YVETTE CLARKE (74%) Paul Von Zielbauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



118 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

LENGTH: 32 words

 BODY:
DOLLAR TUMBLES. The dollar plunged against the euro as the number of jobs created last month was a fifth of expectations. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2378, up from $1.2188 on Thursday. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since Sept. 2002. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); JOB CREATION (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%) Currency; Labor; Unemployment

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (77%); CANADA (74%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



119 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; THE JOB PICTURE: THE DATA

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: In the Latest Numbers, Economists See the Cold, Hard Truth About Jobs

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5 

 BODY:
For months, Bush administration officials and many Republicans have argued that the unemployment situation is better than the numbers suggest.
 But after Friday's extraordinarily weak jobs report, which showed a negligible increase of 21,000 jobs in February after months of rapid economic growth, economists both inside and outside the government have reached a similar conclusion: the numbers don't lie.
 Never before has the American economy seen such a prolonged divergence between economic growth and job creation. And rarely have the government's two main surveys on employment shown such conflicting results as they have in the last two years. 
 Top officials at the Federal Reserve Board, who have been fixated on the employment situation, have made it clear that they believe that jobs are being created more slowly than in any previous recovery, and well below the rate needed to bring down unemployment.
 As a result, Friday's Labor Department report is almost certain to persuade the central bank to delay any increase in interest rates for at least several more months, if not for the rest of the year.
 ''The numbers aren't lying,'' said Diane Swonk, chief economist at the Bank One Corporation. 
 Debate about the reliability of the government's jobs data has focused on two issues. The first is the enduring dissonance between evidence of a strong economy and a weak job market. Economists are increasingly becoming convinced that that puzzle can be explained by rapid increases in productivity. 
 The second issue is more technical. The findings of the two main employment surveys done by the Bureau of Labor Statistics have long shown a large discrepancy. 
 The payroll survey, which is based on responses from 400,000 companies, shows a loss of 2.2 million jobs since early 2001. The household survey, based on questions posed to about 50,000 households, shows an increase of about 500,000 jobs over the same period.
 Administration officials have argued that the household survey captures a happy new dimension to the job market: an increase in self-employed people working from home. 
 But Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, told lawmakers last month that he is all but convinced that the household survey has been wrong and the payroll survey has been right.
 Economists at the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office have reached similar conclusions. Even the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics agrees. ''The payroll survey is the best indicator of current job trends,'' Kathleen P. Utgoff, the bureau commissioner, said at a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee on Friday.
 Economists, including Ms. Utgoff, say the economy needs to add about 125,000 jobs a month just to keep up with growth in the number of workers. But the rate has been only half that high since last August, when the economy finally stopped losing jobs.
 More ominous, analysts say, is that hundreds of thousands of workers have stopped looking for jobs. About 392,000 workers dropped out of the work force last month, and the size of the labor force has contracted in six of the last eight months.
 In most recoveries, exactly the opposite occurs. As they become more optimistic, people who had been too discouraged to look for work jump back into the work force. That phenomenon often leads to a misleading rise in the unemployment rate, because the number of people classified as workers jumps faster than the number of new jobs.
 During this recovery, the number of discouraged workers has risen so markedly that the official unemployment rate has edged down since last summer. Since March 2001, the share of the population that is officially in the work force has declined to 65.9 percent from 67.1 percent. 
 Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a left-of-center research group here, estimated that unemployment would be 7.3 percent today, rather than the official level of 5.6 percent, if the rate of work force participation was as high today as it was three years ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); SALARY SURVEYS (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%) Labor; Interest Rates; United States Economy; Unemployment; Labor

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



120 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; THE JOB PICTURE: THE EMPLOYERS

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Companies Hold Off on Hiring Until Demand Rises

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
By almost every measure, the economy has been expanding at a healthy pace for six months. But the nation's employers remain stubbornly reluctant to add jobs in the United States.
 Outsourcing abroad, particularly the shifting of work to China and India, so much in the news, is one reason hiring at home has been sparse. Another is rising productivity, squeezing more work from existing staff and other efficiencies. 
 But these are only two aspects of a much broader syndrome that might be described as just-in-time hiring. Instead of optimistically adding workers in anticipation of demand, as in the past, the new mind-set is to hold off until the demand for a company's product or service is so great that an employer has no choice but to hire, and then add as few people as possible.
 ''Companies do not want to take on new workers unless they absolutely have to, and they do not have to yet,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight, a forecasting and data gathering concern.
 Despite strong economic growth since last summer, the current recovery started out very slowly and that helps to explain the lack of hiring. The economy has expanded at an average annual rate of only 3.6 percent since the recession ended in the fourth quarter of 2001. By comparison, the growth rate averaged 5.7 percent in the opening two years of the previous eight recoveries. But even in the early 1990's, when job growth was also slow to recover, hiring was more robust at this stage of the expansion than it is now.
 The reluctance to hire is evident at Parker Hannifin, a manufacturer of industrial controls based in Cleveland. Orders finally picked up in the late fall, and now they are running a robust 20 percent ahead of last year.
 If that trend continues, Parker Hannifin will begin to add workers in the summer, but not regular employees. Most will come from Manpower and similar temporary help agencies, said Tim Pistell, the chief financial officer. In the meantime, Parker Hannifin has stopped the layoffs and attrition that eliminated 8,000 employees over the last three years. Employees who resign or retire are finally being replaced.
 ''I would say we cannot go much more than another quarter without adding people, if orders hold up,'' Mr. Pistell said. ''But we will hire cautiously. We've had a couple of head fakes in this recovery, when we thought the hard times were over for us and they weren't.''
 Temporary workers, in fact, are the fastest-growing segment of the work force, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Since August, when employers finally began to add more jobs than they eliminated, temporary workers have led the parade. Temporary help jobs increased by 112,000 in this period, bringing the total to 2.37 million as of last month. That is up from virtually zero in the late 1970's.
 Temporary workers, and their first cousins, contract workers, play a crucial role in a growing corporate practice. Companies increasingly divide their work forces into a core group of permanent, well-paid employees surrounded by less-skilled, lower-wage workers who can be brought in and sent away as demand fluctuates.
 ''The goal of companies is not to hire,'' said Larry Geiger, a vice president of the American Management Association who supervises the association's surveys of corporate executives.
 The executives are focused instead on fattening profits to push up stock prices and recover ground lost in the market plunge that started in 2000, he said. Since they cannot raise profits by raising prices in a period of low inflation, they are doing it by suppressing labor costs -- getting more output from the existing work force. And the profit share of corporate income has risen in recent quarters at the expense of labor's share, the Bureau of Economic Analysis reports.
 Still, companies are announcing their intentions to hire more frequently now. In an American Management Association survey of 230 executives last December, 48 percent said they would add workers this year, up from 38 percent in the poll a year earlier. Other organizations have reported similar poll results in recent weeks, encouraging optimism that February would finally be a breakthrough month, producing more than 100,000 new jobs rather than the meager 21,000 reported yesterday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 Mr. Geiger said he was not surprised. ''What these executives do is budget for an increase in employment, and their answers reflect the budgeted funds,'' he said. ''But if revenue projections are not met, they cancel the budgeted hiring, and that is happening frequently.'' 
 Other shifts also damp hiring; some are intended while others are beyond any individual company's control. Hiring came back sooner in earlier recoveries because employers stepped up production not only to fill current orders but to build inventories, warehousing extra merchandise to meet surges in demand. 
 That no longer happens, particularly in manufacturing, which has been shedding jobs for 43 consecutive months while many other sectors are gradually beginning to add jobs. Parker Hannifin, for example, adjusts production almost daily to match the previous day's sales. As a result of this tactic, the Commerce Department's inventory-to-sales ratio, a measure of the number of months needed to sell off existing inventories, has fallen to less than 1.4 months from nearly 1.6 months in the early 1990's. 
 In past recoveries, companies stepped up their hiring in response to two other dynamics. As the economy improved, they invested in new machinery, computers and other capital goods to meet rising demand. The capital goods manufacturers in turn added workers, who then spent their salaries on goods and services, and employment rose in these sectors, too. 
 The same dynamic is happening now, but a growing portion of the spending is going abroad, creating jobs in other countries rather than the United States. That is because the value of imported capital goods, measured as a percentage of total expenditures, excluding cars and trucks, rose to just under 40 percent last year from just over 30 percent in 1990 and 15 percent in 1980. Similarly, spending on imported consumer goods and services as a percentage of total outlays stands at 12 percent today, up from 7 percent in 1990 and 4 percent in 1980.
 ''What we are looking at now is a more extreme version of the early 1990's, when we also experienced a jobless recovery but not as severe as this one,'' said Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs. ''We have no way of knowing when hiring will pick up; we don't have models for what is happening now.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Slow Growth''Since the last recession ended, the gross domestic product has grown slowly when compared with similar periods following earlier recessions.ANNUAL REAL G.D.P. GROWTH, EIGHT QUARTERS FOLLOWING A RECESSION4Q 1949 to 4Q 1951: +9.2%2Q 1954 to 2Q 1956: +5.02Q 1958 to 2Q 1960: +5.71Q 1961 to 1Q 1963: +5.64Q 1970 to 4Q 1972: +5.71Q 1975 to 1Q 1977: +4.64Q 1982 to 4Q 1984: +6.61Q 1991 to 1Q 1993: +2.94Q 2001 to 4Q 2003: +3.6(Source by Economic Policy Institute)(pg. C3)Chart:Graph ''A Weak Job Picture . . .'' tracks the monthly change in nonfarm payrolls, seasonally adjusted since 2001.Graph ''And Chronic Unemployment . . .'' tracks the average time the unemployed have been out of work, seasonally adjusted from 1991-2003.Graph ''Send Interest Rates Lower'' tracks the yield on 10-year treasury notes since June 2003.YESTERDAY: 3.85%(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); STATISTICS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%) Labor; United States Economy; Unemployment; Temporary Employment; Interest Rates; Gross Domestic Product

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



121 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Pataki in Tentative Deal With Largest Union

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The Pataki administration and the state's largest public employees union said yesterday that they had agreed on a tentative contract that would raise the salaries of 70,000 state workers by what union officials said was 11 percent over the next four years.
 The tentative agreement with the union, the Civil Service Employees Association, which has been without a contract since April, would cost the state $352 million over the course of the contract, a state official said. The governor and the State Legislature are negotiating a plan to close a $5.1 billion shortfall in next year's budget. 
 The proposed settlement would give workers an $800 one-time payment upon ratifying the contract, followed by raises of between 2.5 percent and 3 percent a year over the next three years. On the last day of the contract in March 2007, workers would get an $800 increase on their base salary. 
 The union said workers making $26,475 now would see their salaries grow to $29,520 by the end of the contract. 
 The settlement would require workers to pay higher co-payments for doctors' visits, officials said. The contract would cover clerical workers, mental health workers and members of road crews, among other state employees. 
 The union's contract is traditionally a bellwether that helps set the terms of other state contracts. 
 Gov. George E. Pataki described the pact in a statement as a ''fair contract.'' Daniel F. Donohue, the union president, said in a statement that the agreement ''demonstrates the state's commitment to our members in the short and long term.''
 The contract will be watched closely by New York City unions, which have been battling Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's insistence that any wage increases they get be paid for by higher productivity or other savings included in their contracts. 
 Randi Weingarten, the chairwoman of the Municipal Labor Committee, which coordinates bargaining for the city's unions, said she hoped the mayor would take note that the state found a way to raise its employees' pay even though it was facing a budget gap and an economy that is weaker than the city's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (71%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (66%) Wages and Salaries; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

ORGANIZATION: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (84%) Civil Service Employees Assn

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



122 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Markets Hold as Low-Interest Hopes Counter Jobs Report

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Bond prices rose, yields plunged and the dollar fell yesterday in the wake of a surprisingly weak February jobs report, suggesting that any interest rate increase by the Federal Reserve will not come as soon as had been predicted. The stock market, where slow job creation is a negative and low interest rates a positive, was little changed.
 The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note fell to 3.85 percent, its lowest since July. If the yield remains in this area, mortgage rates, which are already low, could decline further next week. 
 The dollar, which had reached a 2004 high Thursday, declined 1.5 percent against the euro. But the dollar actually rose against the Japanese yen after the Bank of Japan, according to analysts, intervened in the foreign exchange market to prevent the yen from rising against the dollar.
 The intervention is aimed at keeping Japan's export business competitive abroad by maintaining as weak a yen as possible against the dollar and other currencies. Some analysts estimated that the Bank of Japan, which spent more than 20 trillion yen (around $185 billion) last year to keep the dollar stronger and the yen weaker, bought as much as $10 billion with yen yesterday. 
 Interest rates and the dollar fell, analysts said, because the 21,000 new jobs created in February were so far below expectations of about 130,000 that an interest rate increase expected from the Federal Reserve as early as this summer is now not expected until at least the end of the year.
 ''The market has finally pushed the Fed out of this year,'' said James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at J.P. Morgan, referring to expectations for a Fed rate increase. 
 ''We know rates are too low for the long haul,'' he added. But with job creation so slow, he added, ''we are not in the long haul now.'' 
 While some economists worry that slow job growth will impede recovery, the drop in interest rates, if it lasts, could provide a little extra lift for the housing and mortgage refinancing businesses and provide consumers who refinance more cash to spend.
 To the surprise of many analysts, mortgage rates are falling this year instead of rising. The national 30-year mortgage was at 5.59 percent this week, down from 5.81 percent at the end of last year and not far above the 45-year low of 5.21 percent last June, according to Freddie Mac.
 Frank A. Nothaft, Freddie Mac's chief economist, said that some consumers should have seen lower mortgage rates as soon as yesterday and that Freddie Mac's national average rate would be ''much lower'' next week if yesterday's decline in Treasury yields holds.
 In the Treasury market, the price of the 10-year note increased 111/32, to 1017/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 3.85 percent, from 4.02 percent on Thursday.
 The dollar fell as the euro rose to a value of $1.2378, from $1.2188 on Thursday. While the fall was big, the dollar had risen 2.5 percent against the euro through Thursday of this week on the expectation that the jobs report would be strong and that the Fed would raise interest rates sooner than expected. Against the yen, the dollar was at 112.02, up from 111.06 Thursday.
 ''Japan's economic policy of currency manipulation has gone from slowing the appreciation of the yen to stabilizing the yen to its current form of weakening the yen,'' David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics, wrote in his commentary yesterday. 
 William E. Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics, said that initially the jobs report seemed bad for the stock market. But that worry was then offset by the belief that any Fed rate increase would be delayed.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 7.55 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,595.55, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 1.99 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,156.86. The Nasdaq composite index fell 7.48 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,047.63.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); BONDS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); EURO (72%); EXPORT TRADE (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Finances; Government Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (63%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (63%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (63%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



123 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Sun Microsystems Debt Cut to 'Junk'

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 5 

 BODY:
After a period of small but steady improvement, shares of Sun Microsystems sank on Friday after Standard & Poor's announced that it had cut Sun's corporate credit rating to junk status. 
 The company's shares fell 36 cents, or 7 percent, on the news to close at $4.80. 
 The credit rating company cited continuing financial losses and fierce competition in the market for computer network servers. Sun, based in Mountain View, Calif., has posted 11 consecutive quarters of declining revenue since 2001. 
 Sun has about $1.3 billion of senior unsecured notes, and about $5 billion of cash and marketable securities, Standard & Poor's said. It cut Sun's corporate credit rating to BB+, its highest junk rating, from BBB. The outlook is stable.
 ''The downgrade reflects weak and inconsistent profitability, and the expectation that Sun will be challenged to profitably expand its market presence,'' said Martha Toll-Reed, Standard & Poor's credit analyst. 
 She said she did not expect the company's profitability to return to historical levels in the near-to-immediate future.
 Friday's move by the credit agency is a big blow to Sun's recent efforts to turn its fortunes around. During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the company's revenues topped analysts' projections, rising 13.9 percent over the first quarter, the highest growth rate from a first quarter to a second since 1998. Sun's stock closed Thursday at $5.16 after starting off the year at $4.49
 Ms. Toll-Reed said the company continued to face enormous hurdles in the server market where it competes with I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard, as well as with Dell Computer at the low end of the market. Dell has in recent years moved aggressively into that market, selling less-expensive servers based on industry standard technologies like Linux and Microsoft Windows. By contrast, Sun continues to rely on selling more-expensive servers, based on its own proprietary version of Unix. 
 ''The biggest competitors are clearly I.B.M. and H.P., but not to be discounted is the low-end impact of a Dell Computer, who's got a very effective cost model,'' Ms. Toll-Reed said. ''You can't do the same things with a Dell server and a Sun high-end server, but the cost factor is not to be underestimated.''
 Brent Bracelin, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities, said he was surprised at the timing of the downgrade, because Sun's financial position has improved in recent months. ''We're projecting them to show their first year-over-year revenue growth in the March quarter,'' Mr. Bracelin said. ''Sun certainly has several challenges ahead of it, but we're at the start of things getting better. They're in a better position now than they were last year at this time.''
 Mr. Bracelin said Sun stands to gain from what appears to be more spending in corporate technology centers, along with the improving economy.
 But in Ms. Toll-Reed's view, Sun's commitment to maintaining substantial investments in research and development -- which may pay off in innovative products -- also takes a toll on the company's bottom line.
 Sun executives defended the company's financial position, as well its strategy.
 ''Sun has a strong financial foundation of $5.161 billion in cash and marketable securities, which is over three times our outstanding debt,'' said Jeff Boldt, director of investor relations for Sun. ''With this strong financial foundation, a broad range of products, technologies and solutions, and a global base of customers and partners, Sun is well positioned to achieve its goals.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); DEBT NOTES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%) Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (90%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Sun Microsystems Inc; Standard & Poor's Corp

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (90%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: Laurie J Flynn

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



124 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Outsourcing Is Becoming A Harder Sell in the U.S.

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER; Jennifer Bayot contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Globalization is having a bad year. Unions do not like it. Politicians on the campaign trail rail against it. As each monthly employment report confirms the anemic pace of job creation -- yesterday's report was especially grim -- more members of Congress talk about obstructing it. 
 Now, even some practitioners are speaking out against globalization. 
 ''I really hate it,'' said Al Lubrano, president of Technical Materials Inc., a Lincoln, R.I., manufacturer of specialty metal parts for computers, telecommunications equipment and other applications. ''I think we're really selling out our manufacturing community down the river.'' 
 But like many other American business executives, Mr. Lubrano has had to join the trend: Next year Technical Materials plans to open its first operation in China.
 The gap between the stated ideal and the business reality is also evident with Angelo R. Mozilo, the chairman of Countrywide Financial, one of the largest mortgage lenders, who was quoted in October in the trade publication National Mortgage News as saying, ''I feel it is Countrywide's responsibility to create jobs in the U.S., not outside the U.S.'' 
 By this year, however, Mr. Mozilo was describing how Countrywide had leased 40,000 square feet of office space in Bombay and planned to create 250 customer service and support jobs there over the next two years. (Mr. Mozilo declined to be interviewed for this article.)
 The business community's dissonant attitudes toward global outsourcing -- hiring out work overseas -- are evident in the results of a survey released yesterday by the business consultant McKinsey & Company. The survey of 7,300 senior executives from companies around the world found that roughly four out of five executives said that outsourcing was good for the global economy, an approval ratio that was virtually the same in Europe, Asia and the United States and is in keeping with the views of many economists. 
 But when the executives were asked about the effects of outsourcing on their own businesses, the executive consensus broke down. In Europe, 70 percent of executives said outsourcing was good for business. So did 86 percent of Chinese executives and 97 percent of those in India. 
 Yet in the United States, headquarters to many of the most aggressive and successful globalizing companies, the fraction of executives that said outsourcing was either very positive or somewhat positive for their company dropped to 58 percent.
 Some of this ambivalence may reflect the growing political hostility in this country against outsourcing, which has come to a boil in the face of lackluster job creation despite robust economic growth. 
 On the presidential campaign stump, Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, regularly condemns the ''Benedict Arnold'' companies that send jobs overseas. Senate Democrats are backing a bill that would require executives to provide at least 90 days' notice if they plan to lay off more than 14 workers to move their functions overseas. On Thursday, the Senate passed by a large margin a measure that would put new restrictions on government contractors' shifting jobs overseas. 
 Foreign direct investment by American corporations has averaged roughly $125 billion annually over the last 10 years. Though much of this was devoted to serve foreign markets, a growing portion has sought to reap the benefits of cheap labor and resources to make products and services for sale back home.
 Now, cheap communications technology has opened vast new spaces to outsourcing, including white-collar service functions like data processing and software design. A study by the McKinsey Global Institute, McKinsey's internal research center, estimated that in 2002, multinationals moved nearly $35 billion of such spending offshore. And the study predicted that as more companies took advantage of cheap global communications, the ''offshoring'' of jobs would grow by 30 to 40 percent annually through 2008.
 ''Outsourcing has so far been modest compared to what's to come,'' said Lael Brainard of the Brookings Institution in Washington. Brian Keane, chief executive of Keane Inc., a Boston-based company that handles back-office operations for companies, said executives increasingly were concluding that they had no alternative to sending jobs overseas, despite the growing political heat.
 ''You almost can't afford not to,'' Mr. Keane said. ''That's the bottom line.'' Otherwise, he added, competitors will end up ''eating your lunch.''
 Smaller companies in the United States that serve big globalizing behemoths are probably the most anxious of them all. Ask Mr. Lubrano. Though Technical Materials is a unit of a larger public company -- Brush Engineered Materials of Cleveland -- it fits into the category of small company at the mercy of big multinationals. And Mr. Lubrano feels that he is globalizing under duress.
 ''Our customers' customers have moved to China,'' he said. ''This goes down the ladder, one rung at a time.'' 
 For instance, Technical Materials used to supply parts to suppliers of Motorola, the big cellphone maker, he said. But when Motorola moved production capacity to China, it took many of those suppliers with it, costing Mr. Lubrano business. Now another customer is migrating to China. This time Technical Materials will go, too. 
 ''On and on it goes,'' Mr. Lubrano said. ''We've got to stop it. Manufacturers in this country can't stop that without our government taking action.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers field questions from their cubicles at an America Online Latin America call center in Buenos Aires. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (65%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%) Labor

COMPANY: TECHNICAL MATERIALS INC (83%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Mckinsey & Co

INDUSTRY: SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (83%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); ANGELO R MOZILO (75%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



125 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; THE JOB PICTURE: THE POLITICS

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Job Data Provides Ammunition for Two Sides in Presidential Race

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5 

 BODY:
The latest unemployment statistics escalated the political war over the economy on Friday, with Democrats asserting that lackluster job growth underscored the failures of the Bush administration's economic policy while Republicans countered that a tax-raising Democratic president would only make it worse.
 On Capitol Hill and on the campaign trail, Democrats ridiculed the administration for falling far short of its promises to restore a healthy job market. Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, told a cheering rally of workers protesting the migration of jobs overseas: ''President Bush has said the economy is growing, that there are jobs out there. But you know, it's a long commute to China to get those jobs.'' 
 Senator John Kerry, the all-but-official Democratic nominee, said that Mr. Bush had ''overpromised and underdelivered,'' saying that at the current rate of job growth, it would take almost a decade to replace the more than two million jobs lost under this administration. 
 Later, at a rally in New Orleans, Mr. Kerry attacked the administration's economic policies, responding to Vice President Dick Cheney's claim that Democratic proposals for higher taxes on the rich would harm the economy.
 ''Dick Cheney went on TV and said if we had John Kerry's tax policies, we wouldn't have had the job growth we've had in the country right now,'' Mr. Kerry told the crowd. ''I came here to say today, 'You're darn right, Mr. Vice President. We'd have had real job growth; Americans would be working.'''
 Republicans had clearly hoped for a much better performance in February than the creation of only 21,000 jobs but still went on the offensive. ''President Bush has provided steady leadership that has put us on the road to economic recovery,'' said Terry Holt, spokesman for the Bush campaign. ''John Kerry's 20-year record of supporting higher taxes for businesses and families would derail America's economic recovery.''
 The Bush campaign itemized what it asserted was a long history of Kerry votes for higher taxes, ''more regulation and red tape,'' and against legislation that would limit ''frivolous lawsuits'' and ''lower health care costs.''
 Throughout the day, Bush officials argued that Mr. Kerry would represent a risky shift in direction on the economy, just as they previously argued he would be on national security. This reflected the overarching theme of the Bush re-election effort, which formally kicked into gear this week with a major advertising campaign.
 Still, Glen Bolger, whose firm is part of the Bush campaign's polling team, acknowledged, ''Clearly, you'd like to see the job growth a little more robust than 21,000.'' But he added, ''The president is realistic when he says, 'We're not done yet, there's lots more to do.'''
 John Feehery, spokesman for the House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, said: ''No one should be happy about these numbers. It just shows you there is a changing economy out there. But Democrats are talking about economic isolationism, and that's not going to create any more jobs.''
 In fact, the nation's trade agreements and their effect on employment emerged as one of the most powerful issues during the Democratic nominating season, and the new job figures only fed those fires. At the rally on Capitol Hill on Friday, workers held signs declaring, ''Outsource Bush'' and ''Stop Exporting American Jobs.'' They heard from a worker at an Electrolux refrigerator plan in Michigan that is scheduled to close and transfer much of its work to Mexico.
 ''It's like a stomachache that will not go away,'' said the worker, Dave Doolittle.
 Senator Byron Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, was one of several Democrats who scoffed at Mr. Bush for promoting the possibility this week that lots of companies might add two or three workers each as a result of his tax policies. ''We've lost three million jobs since he's been in office!'' Mr. Dorgan declared.
 Stephanie Cutter, spokeswoman for the Kerry campaign, said on Friday that the Bush campaign was ''having a hard time conducting the campaign on the real issues Americans face -- like good schools, a good economy, good health care and a sound and safe future, so they're going to cultural issues like gay marriage'' and attacks on Mr. Kerry. 
 Democrats and their allies, in fact, seem increasingly emboldened on the economy. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. now has a banner, hanging a block away on the side of its headquarters building facing the White House, that declares, ''Show Us the Jobs!''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers rallying on Capitol Hill yesterday. The Labor Department reported that the U.S. economy gained 21,000 jobs last month. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAX LAW (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); LEGISLATION (66%); LITIGATION (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Election Issues; United States Economy

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); TOM DASCHLE (78%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Robin Toner; George W (Pres) Bush; Tom (Sen) Daschle; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004



126 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: The Secret Of Our Sauce

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India 

 BODY:
Yamini Narayanan is an Indian-born 35-year-old with a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Oklahoma. After graduation, she worked for a U.S. computer company in Virginia and recently moved back to Bangalore with her husband to be closer to family. When I asked her how she felt about the outsourcing of jobs from her adopted country, America, to her native country, India, she responded with a revealing story:
 ''I just read about a guy in America who lost his job to India and he made a T-shirt that said, 'I lost my job to India and all I got was this [lousy] T-shirt.' And he made all kinds of money.'' Only in America, she said, shaking her head, would someone figure out how to profit from his own unemployment. And that, she insisted, was the reason America need not fear outsourcing to India: America is so much more innovative a place than any other country. 
 There is a reason the ''next big thing'' almost always comes out of America, said Mrs. Narayanan. When she and her husband came back to live in Bangalore and enrolled their son in a good private school, he found himself totally stifled because of the emphasis on rote learning -- rather than the independent thinking he was exposed to in his U.S. school. They had to take him out and look for another, more avant-garde private school. ''America allows you to explore your mind,'' she said. The whole concept of outsourcing was actually invented in America, added her husband, Sean, because no one else figured it out.
 The Narayanans are worth listening to at this time of rising insecurity over white-collar job losses to India. America is the greatest engine of innovation that has ever existed, and it can't be duplicated anytime soon, because it is the product of a multitude of factors: extreme freedom of thought, an emphasis on independent thinking, a steady immigration of new minds, a risk-taking culture with no stigma attached to trying and failing, a noncorrupt bureaucracy, and financial markets and a venture capital system that are unrivaled at taking new ideas and turning them into global products.
 ''You have this whole ecosystem [that constitutes] a unique crucible for innovation,'' said Nandan Nilekani, the C.E.O. of Infosys, India's I.B.M. ''I was in Europe the other day and they were commiserating about the 400,000 [European] knowledge workers who have gone to live in the U.S. because of the innovative environment there. The whole process where people get an idea and put together a team, raise the capital, create a product and mainstream it -- that can only be done in the U.S. It can't be done sitting in India. The Indian part of the equation [is to help] these innovative [U.S.] companies bring their products to the market quicker, cheaper and better, which increases the innovative cycle there. It is a complimentarity we need to enhance.''
 That is so right. As Robert Hof, a tech writer for Business Week, noted, U.S. tech workers ''must keep creating leading edge technologies that make their companies more productive -- especially innovations that spark entirely new markets.'' The same tech innovations that produced outsourcing, he noted, also produced eBay, Amazon.com, Google and thousands of new jobs along with them.
 This is America's real edge. Sure Bangalore has a lot of engineering schools, but the local government is rife with corruption; half the city has no sidewalks; there are constant electricity blackouts; the rivers are choked with pollution; the public school system is dysfunctional; beggars dart in and out of the traffic, which is in constant gridlock; and the whole infrastructure is falling apart. The big high-tech firms here reside on beautiful, walled campuses, because they maintain their own water, electricity and communications systems. They thrive by defying their political-economic environment, not by emerging from it.
 What would Indian techies give for just one day of America's rule of law; its dependable, regulated financial markets; its efficient, noncorrupt bureaucracy; and its best public schools and universities? They'd give a lot.
 These institutions, which nurture innovation, are our real crown jewels that must be protected -- not the 1 percent of jobs that might be outsourced. But it is precisely these crown jewels that can be squandered if we become lazy, or engage in mindless protectionism, or persist in radical tax cutting that can only erode the strength and quality of our government and educational institutions.
 Our competitors know the secret of our sauce. But do we? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (87%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); OFFSHORING (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (84%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (57%); INFY (NYSE) (57%); INFY (NSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (97%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



127 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1693 words

HEADLINE: Facing New Crisis, Haiti Again Relies on U.S. Military to Keep Order

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER and LYDIA POLGREEN; Reporting for this article was contributed by Rachel L. Swarns, Eric Schmitt and Christopher Marquis in Washington, Warren Hoge at the United Nations and William K. Rashbaum in New York.

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, March 6 

 BODY:
Jean Rodrigue peered through the green gates of the palace wall, struggling to take in the sight of a dozen or more United States marines in armored vehicles on the lawn of the National Palace that President Jean-Bertrand Aristide had fled. 
 A decade ago, Mr. Rodrigue had wept for joy when Mr. Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected president, returned with the help of the American military. Now he is gone, and American troops are trying to mop up the mess he left behind.
 ''There was so much hope then,'' Mr. Rodrigue, a 40-year-old biology teacher, said, staring vacantly at the marines from underneath a wide-brimmed straw hat. ''We all believed in Aristide and we believed the world would help us.'' 
 Now the United States military is back in Haiti for the third time in 90 years. It says its mission will last 90 days. On June 1, the United States plans to hand off to an international force under the United Nations. Planning for that force has barely begun, and Haiti's 15 neighbors in the Caribbean, furious at Mr. Aristide's ouster under American pressure, say they want no part of it. 
 Trying to put Haiti back together again may well require more soldiers, more time and more money than the last American military deployment, in 1994, to build lasting institutions, like the police, courts and schools. The $3 billion spent by the United States during those years has washed away like the soil on Haiti's denuded hills. 
 Many of the armed rebels who rose up in Haiti this past month are veterans of the junta that overthrew Mr. Aristide in 1991. They have not put down their arms as they have promised. United States Special Forces have flown to the rebels' strongholds outside Port-au-Prince to try to persuade them to do so.
 United States military officers are working with senior members of Haiti's police force trying to reform a rabble of demoralized and poorly trained officers, who have been unable to bring order to a deeply divided country of heavily armed citizens with grievances and long memories. United States officials said the new police chief would be Leon Charles, 38, who has worked with them before as a Haitian Coast Guard commander. 
 The Haitian government, torn between rival elites, has traditionally ignored the needs of Haiti's poor, who saw in Mr. Aristide a champion of their interests. Though a ''council of elders'' was formed Friday to try to select nominees for a provisional government, political discourse here is still often carried out at gunpoint.
 When the last American-led military mission in Haiti ended in 1996, it left behind a nation that slowly fell apart again, dissolving into the monthlong armed rebellion that led Mr. Aristide to exile. Haitians hope for better this time, but history has taught them many cruel lessons. 
 Before the Americans left, Mr. Aristide decided to send home the soldiers of the Haitian Army with their guns but no jobs or compensation. As a result, many soldiers joined the rebels to seek his ouster, and the rebels now want to bring back the much feared Haitian Army. 
 A three-month occupation would be the shortest dalliance in a long and inauspicious American history of military engagement with Haiti. The first American occupation lasted two decades, from 1915 to 1934. The second, starting in 1994, involved 20,000 American-led troops.
 This time around, the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, says, any peacekeeping force will have to be a long-term mission. An in-and-out operation may have little effect on a nation so scarred, where legitimate authority is shaky after what some Haitians see as an American-backed coup. 
 The United States ''didn't think about the endgame when they had Aristide leave,'' said Arturo Valenzuela, a former National Security Council officer for Latin America. ''They thought the problem was the bad leader, just like in Iraq, and that the departure of the bad leader would have a good outcome. Political order has to be established with legitimate force. Only the U.N. can do that.''
 A United Nations Security Council resolution passed last Sunday only approved the dispatch of troops by member countries. About 1,900 have arrived -- 1,200 Americans, 500 French, 130 Chileans and 60 Canadians. Canada pledged 390 more and Brazil has promised troops. The improvised American-led effort may grow to 5,000 soldiers, including about 2,000 marines, this month.
 But there is no visible recruitment yet for a United Nations force. ''The U.N. is not in the business of recruiting,'' said Fred Eckhard, Mr. Annan's spokesman. ''If you want that, speak to the United States and its friends.'' 
 Mr. Annan, under the resolution, has 25 days left to create a peacekeeping force. Until then, the United States is in charge. But as in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Balkans, it may prove easier for American troops to land in Haiti than to leave. 
 Raymond W. Kelly, now the New York police commissioner, strove to create a working force for law and order in Haiti a decade ago. But the national police dwindled to a force of less than 3,000, became dissolute and corrupt, and barely exists today. 
 To re-establish order, ''clearly you need more resources than were ever talked about there'' in the past, Mr. Kelly said. ''You'd be talking roughly 20,000 police in Haiti.'' 
 Training and equipping a force that size could take years.
 The question of the Haitian Army also overshadows the country's future. Mr. Aristide dissolved it in 1995; the armed rebels have announced its resurrection. The army was created by the American military after it occupied the country and imposed martial law in 1915. 
 Mary A. Renda, author of ''Taking Haiti,'' an award-winning history of the American occupation, said the Marines created ''a military that was intended to be used against the Haitian people.'' 
 The government is riven by factions. Beyond the rebels, whom the United States has told to lay down their arms, there remain loyal Aristide ministers and supporters, and the political opposition led by Haiti's elites.
 Many Aristide loyalists are still hiding from rebel death threats, and many elites supported the rebel cause -- the overthrow of Mr. Aristide and the reconstitution of the army, which has always served the elites at the expense of its poor. 
 Many of Haiti's poor -- the millions who live on less than a dollar a day -- remain loyal to Mr. Aristide, who rose to power on his promises to deliver ''peace in the mind, peace in the belly.'' They wonder what role they will have in a new government. 
 ''Look at how we are living,'' said Sony Aurelien, a 33-year-old port inspector who lives in La Saline, the vast slum where Mr. Aristide served as a priest, gesturing at the open sewers overflowing with putrid garbage. ''With Aristide, for the first time we have started to live. I am the first one in my family to have a regular job. Aristide tried to lift us up, so America kidnapped him and took him away.'' 
 One model for Haiti today may be Liberia, the West African nation of former American slaves established with American support in 1821. 
 In Liberia, less then seven months ago, as rebels besieged the capital, 2,000 marines dropped anchor offshore and secured the airport for aid shipments. Small platoons patrolled the capital and quelled the rebels. In weeks, they handed off power to United Nations peacekeepers. Liberia is hardly healed, but $500 million worth of promised international aid and the peacekeepers have made a start.
 Without law and order and a flood of economic aid, thousands more Haitian refugees may take to the seas, fleeing their failed state for Florida. The last time Haiti fell to an armed rebellion, in 1991, some 40,000 refugees washed up on American shores. During February, 1076 Haitians were intercepted by the United States Coast Guard.
 Stopping refugees was a high priority in dispatching the Marines. ''We will turn back any refugee that attempts to reach our shores,'' President Bush said.
 Some of those trying to flee Haiti are Aristide loyalists who fear for their lives. International law forbids returning political refugees to a place where they might be killed or jailed. In 1994, President Clinton created a ''safe haven'' for Haitian refugees at the nearby American naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. That base is now filled with suspected Islamic militants imprisoned by the United States.
 Hunger and disease are rampant in Haiti, and the flow of international aid achingly slow. Many international aid agencies' stores were looted during the rebel advance on the capital. ''We have let Haiti slip back into a silent humanitarian emergency even before this period of extreme internal strife,'' Jan Egeland, the United Nations's chief aid coordinator, told the Security Council on Friday.
 Saturday was market day in the capital, the first calm day for commerce in five weeks on the Rue des Miracles in downtown Port-au-Prince. But, given Haiti's ruined economy, ''normal is terrible,'' said Mona Alexis, a street vendor selling cinnamon, ginger and star anise alongside hawkers of brake fluid, saddle shoes and cornflakes on the Street of Miracles.
 ''I haven't sold a thing all day,'' said Ms. Alexis, 41, the sole supporter of five children. ''Nobody has any money. My family and I are barely surviving.''
 United States military aircraft landed all Saturday afternoon at the international airport here, deepening the American presence in Haiti. They ranged from a 17-seat government executive jet to a gray hulking Air Force transport.
 The transport jet touched down and, with its engines still running, its nose cone tilted up. Two dozen marines, three carrying laptop computers along with their weapons, walked down a ramp, blinking and squinting in the harsh sun.
 United Nations officials plan to fly here next week to study Haiti's needs, Mr. Eckhard said. 
 A long international occupation of Haiti ''would be sad, but it's necessary,'' said Regine Santil, a Port-au-Prince shopkeeper. ''We have proved through the years that we are incapable of running this country. But didn't the Americans who brought Aristide back 10 years ago know that this day would come?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: An American marine in Port-au-Prince on Friday. The United States military, back in Haiti for the third time in 90 years, says its mission will last until June 1, when it plans to hand over control to an international force. (Photo by Michael Kamber/Polaris, for The New York Times)Chart: ''Power Vacuum in Haiti''With Haiti's government in disarray, a seven-member ''council of elders'' met Friday to begin nominating a new coalition government.Executive BranchPRESIDENT -- Jean-Bertrand Aristide (Resigned Feb. 29.)PRIME MINISTER -- Yvon Neptune (Still in office.)MINISTRIES -- Most ministers are in hiding after receiving death threats
ministries are effectively closed.POLICE AND MILITARY -- The police mostly deserted before Mr. Aristide fled
the military was dissolved in 1995.Legislative BranchSENATEHOUSE OF DEPUTIES -- Effectively dissolved after their terms expired on Jan. 12, since elections had not been held.Judicial BranchSUPREME COURT -- Chief Justice Boniface Alexandre (Haiti's acting president, without constitutionally required parliamentary approval.)LOWER COURTS -- Basically ineffective.(Sources by Constitution of Haiti
 Organization of American States)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); POLICE FORCES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (90%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



128 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2427 words

HEADLINE: How To Keep Them Down On The Farm

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GOLDBLATT

DATELINE: PARAMUS 

 BODY:
THE forces that have eroded New Jersey farming beckon at Susan Joy's doorstep: The Garden State Parkway surges through the back of the 16-acre vegetable farm her grandfather started harvesting in the 1940's, and $700,000 homes peek through a veil of bony poplar trees on either side. Developers are constantly circling.
 But Ms. Joy is digging in for the long haul. Last year she opened her farm to community-supported agriculture, selling shares of her crops to local residents months before the first head of lettuce emerged from the ground, and distributing them each week from June to October.
 For Ms. Joy and about a dozen other landowners around the state who together own at least an estimated 950 acres of land, this arrangement secures a market for crops in the pre-season, when money is needed for seed and for repairing equipment. The people who buy into these farms get weekly infusions of fresh vegetables and flowers all season long: lettuce, snow peas, arugula in June, tomatoes, basil and peppers in August and pumpkins in October -- all harvested just hours before it is on their plates. 
 ''Being able to get it freshly picked, it was just wonderful,'' said Sharon Zukowski, a novelist from Hackensack who bought shares in Ms. Joy's farm. ''It just makes a huge difference in taste.''
 What's more, the swelling popularity of organic food has provided a lot of potential members for these farms, known as CSA, for community-supported agriculture. Sales of organic foods have been growing by about 20 percent each year since 1991, and consumers bought $13 billion of organic food at supermarkets last year, according to the Organic Consumers Association in Little Marais, Minn.
 These farms serve to forge close financial and emotional bonds between the farmers and their communities, which many hope could help make farming financially viable in the long term.
 ''People feel like they are in this with you, and they are,'' said Michael Baki, head gardener of the community-supported gardens at Genesis Farms in Warren County. ''Even just by the fact that they've taken the step to join, that's a big big thing.''
 So is this a bargain for consumers? Well, for people who find themselves drawn to places like Whole Foods several times a week, the answer is yes, particularly since organic foods tend to be more expensive than conventionally grown produce. In a survey conducted by Watershed Farm in Pennington in August 2002 -- a particularly dry season -- those who had paid $19 a week for a family share received produce that would have cost $80 at a natural food store.
 Last season, an individual share in the Watershed farm cost $295, which worked out to about $11.80 a week for the 25-week season. Most farmers say that if there are any complaints from their members, it is that they get too much food, not too little.
 At first, the concept of community-supported farming was difficult to grasp for Ms. Joy's 71-year-old father, Joseph, who had worked the fields in and around Paramus -- now an intensively developed shopping mecca -- for decades with his family, selling what they grew at a roadside stand and to small retail shops. Initially he scoffed at the idea that his daughter would be taking people's money up front.
 ''When I came to my father with this idea I probably aged him five years,'' said Ms. Joy, 41. ''I think he sweated all the way into July.''
 But to his surprise, 22 people bought shares last year for $599 apiece, showing up each week to pick up their crops, and the farm broke even on the season's harvest. For the first time in recent years, Joy Farms was not caught between bigger stores that only dealt with big wholesalers and smaller shops that did not need everything the farm had.
 ''This turned out to be the perfect mix,'' Ms. Joy said. 
 Scattered around the country there are an estimated 1,200 farms that practice community-supported agriculture and feed about 90,000 households. The Northeast has been a fertile environment for such arrangements because it has so many dense urban areas brimming with people who crave fresh food, and, perhaps, contact with a more primitive form of food shopping.
 ''Ironically that density of the population - the thing that conflicts with farming that creates the fertile environment,'' said Duane Perry, executive director of the Food Trust, a Philadelphia-based group that develops farmers' markets. ''The consumer is pretty much next door to the farmer.''
 Virtually all of these farms grow crops organically, without synthetic pesticides, fertilizers or other artificial additives. But outside of that, the farms are a diverse breed. They are as small as Ms. Joy's suburban startup and as expansive as Watershed Organic Farm, a sprawling 90-acre operation on a land reserve in Pennington, a borough of yawning hills just west of Princeton. Watershed is one of the largest in the country, with 2,600 members last season and a waiting list with 121 names.
 While most of these farmers serve their members from June to November, their schedules vary according to where they are and when their crops flourish. 
 Most community-supported farms plant a wide variety of fruits and vegetables. The Watershed Organic Farm offers 60 types of crops and 350 varieties, ranging from basil and broccoli to crimson and white, candy-striped Dolce Di Chioggia beets.
 Many farms allow members to pick some part of their shares directly from the fields. Some examples are strawberries, raspberries, snap peas and cherry tomatoes. And some deliver shares to remote pickup sites at farmers markets and health food stores for the convenience of members who can not make it out to the farms. 
 Share costs vary widely among the farms, from $275 for an individual share to $599 for a family-size allotment. The sizes of shares also vary each week, according to what crops are in season and how the farm has divided them up. 
 These arrangements create ties between farmers and customers that are deeply felt. In the good years, the farmers are happy to share their bounty; during lean harvests they are glad to have loyal supporters. Yes, there is stress making sure that the customers feel that they are getting a fair share of high-quality food, but farmers like the intimate connection with the families they're feeding.
 ''Delivering a box of vegetables to the back of the store isn't especially thrilling, nor is talking to produce managers who have no loyalty to you,'' said Elizabeth Henderson, co-author of ''Sharing the Harvest,'' (Chelsea Green Publishing, 1999) a book on community-supported agriculture. With this system, Ms. Henderson said: ''I know my members' children. I know their parents. It's very rich.'' 
 To be sure, this kind of agriculture has thrust farmers into roles they have not historically held, that of being retailers. It requires them to add customer service and face time to their production duties -- not always an easy transition.
 ''It can be difficult to devote yourself to the farm members but also to your crops and your soil,'' said Jim Kinsel, farm manager of Watershed Organic Farms. ''If I were to spend a minute with everybody, that would be 2,600 hours.''
 Watershed and other community-supported farms have tried to stay close to their members in other ways, with newsletters that alert members to what is happening in the fields and recipes to advise them how to cook some of the more obscure crops, like kohlrabi, a type of turnip cabbage originally harvested in northern Europe. Some have hotlines so members can find out what crops will be available in a given week. Many organize cooking classes and lectures. Each October, Genesis Farm invites members to help harvest the vegetables that will be stored for the winter, and puts on hayrides, pumpkin decorating and a potluck dinner. 
 Members relish the excuse to escape to a rural setting, far from the clutter of their urban lives.
 ''There's just something about going out to where you can see where the food is growing and see people picking it,'' said Amy Wagner, 36, of Ringoes, a member of Watershed farm. ''It's a real community-type of feel and a nice atmosphere. And I just feel like when it's organic and locally grown, as far as the vitamins, the quality of the produce is going to be as high as possible.'' 
 Farmers also have to spend a lot of time educating their members about what it means to eat seasonally. For many people who are accustomed to the convenience of supermarket shopping, where virtually any produce is available at any time of year and you can get salad washed, cut and in a bag, the learning curve is steep.
 ''A lot of people have unrealistic expectations,'' said Luanne Lohr, associate professor of agricultural and applied economics at the University of Georgia. ''They thought potatoes grow all year. They wanted their children and families to eat well, but a lot of times they didn't know what they were getting. Some things sounded exotic but then they got too much of it, and they didn't want to learn how to prepare it.''
 Susan Keymer and Juan George, who operate a 12-acre farm in Monmouth County, extensively interview potential members, making sure that they understand what comes out of the ground at what time of year.
 ''Some people were in love with the idea of being on a farm, but the reality of farming is beyond them,'' Mr. George said. ''It's not just a supermarket. They would come to me on the first day of May and ask where tomatoes and eggs are.'' 
 The farmers also go to great lengths to explain the risks of buying into farms, the realities of floods, droughts, groundhogs and rabbits that can delay and diminish crops.
 ''We're as up front as we can be about the variability and the whimsy of nature and how that impacts the availability of any given crop at any give time,'' said Leonard Pollara, who runs Upper Meadows Farms in Sussex County. ''I try to paint as stark a picture as I can.''
 Community-supported agriculture has grown steadily over the last two decades; its rise has been intertwined with mounting public appetite for organic food and growers' move toward direct marketing.
 This form of farming first emerged in the United States in 1986, organized by farmers who were concerned about pollution in the food supply, and helping small farms remain competitive. They had seen similar arrangements in Europe and were influenced by the principles of biodynamic agriculture asserted by Rudolf Steiner, an Austrian philosopher. Mr. Steiner emphasized the use of local land to feed the community and pairing the farmer with the consumer. He shunned the use of chemicals, and advocated running a farm with respect to its interaction with natural forces like light, fertility and planetary movements.
 And since the 1970's, community-supported farms have been part of a larger shift toward marketing directly to consumers. The hope is that by cultivating community-supported farms, farmers' markets, catalogs and even ''agritourism,'' farmers won't have to split their incomes with distributors, processors and retailers, and can reap larger returns on the food they grow. 
 On average, farmers get about 19 cents on every dollar consumers spend on their produce at retail stores, according to the United States Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service. That is nearly half of what it was two decades ago. 
 For Mr. Pollara, selling shares in his farm was a last resort after years of struggling to sell organic buckwheat, tomatoes, oats and other commodities to restaurants and distributors. With so many other farmers growing and marketing the same crops, it was tough to get a premium on his products. 
 ''Before I threw in my towel for farming, I wanted to see if this would work,'' he said.
 So far, he said, it has. In fact, Mr. Pollara is expecting to sign up 75 to 100 members to his three-year-old community-supported farm, and is optimistic that he can recoup the $48,000 it takes to run the farm for a year.
 Many farmers say that they break even for the season, or make a small profit. The larger operations enjoy economies of scale, getting discounts by buying larger quantities of everything from seeds to compost. 
 And many operate roadside stands or sell to restaurants, alongside their members' shares. To make ends meet, some of those who run these farms have part-time jobs elsewhere. For instance, Ms. Joy works at a florist during the winter, and Ms. Keymer and Mr. George drive school buses in the off-season. 
 Many people hope that this form of agriculture will ultimately sustain small farms in the long term. But that is still an open question. The answer depends largely on whether consumers continue gravitating toward organic and locally grown foods, or whether they are ultimately pulled back to fast food and salad-in-a-bag culture.
 ''I don't think that it's a silver bullet,'' said Kathy Ruhf, project director at the Small Farm Institute, a nonprofit group in Belchertown, Mass. ''I think this is a market opportunity and has great promise for how producers and consumers of food products can relate. But it remains to be seen in terms of the bottom line whether CSA is more viable for small scale family farms than other creative ways that people are engaging in survival.''

A Growing Phenomenon
More information about community-supported agriculture in New Jersey is available from the Northeast Organic Farming Association of New Jersey at www.nofanj.org. Following are some community-supported farms:

Joy Family Farm
725 Pascack Road, Paramus 07652. (609)412-3189.
Daisy7354@msn.com.

Asbury's Natural Village Farm
Charles Napravnik
10 Asbury-Bloomsbury Road, Asbury 08802. (908) 537-2846
www.asburyfarm.org

Cherry Grove Organic Farm
Matthew Conver
11 Carter Road, Princeton 08540.
(609) 203-5139

The Kitchen Garden & Rock Farm
Jean Boggio
76 Haytown Road, Lebanon 08833.
(908) 236-9551
kitchengarden@juno.com

Merrick Farm
Susan Keymer
98 Merrick Road, Farmingdale 07727. (732) 938-2491
merrickfarm@aol.com

Mill Creek Organic Farm CSA
Ken and Nancy Muckenfuss
105A Eayerstown Road, Medford 08055. (609) 953-0372
nlmuck@hotmail.com

Muth Family Farm
Bob Muth
1639 Pitman-Downer Road, Williamstown 08094.
(856) 582-0363

Cook College Student CSA
Ralph Coolman
69 Lipman Drive, Rutgers University
New Brunswick 08903.
(732) 932-8406
coolman@aesop.rutgers.edu

Genesis Farm
Mike Baki
41 B Silver Lake Road, Blairstown 07825.
(908) 362-7486

Watershed Organic Farm
Jim Kinsel
260 Wargo Road, Pennington 08534.
(609) 737-8899
www.watershedfarm.com

Upper Meadows Farm
Leonard Pollara
16 Pollara Lane, Montague 07827.
(973) 293-9869
lenpollara@compuserve.com


GRAPHIC: Photos: Susan Joy and about a dozen others are operating about 950 acres of consumer-supported farmland. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 To the surprise of Susan Joy, above, and her father, 22 people bought shares last year for $599 apiece, and the farm broke even on the season's harvest. An individual share in the Watershed farm, left, cost $295, or about $11.80 a week for the 25-week season. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (90%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); GARDENING (78%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



129 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17; SOAPBOX

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Confessions of a Gas Tax Advocate

BYLINE: By LOUIS J. GAMBACCINI. 
Louis J. Gambaccini, a senior fellow at the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center, Rutgers University, is a former commissioner of the State Department of Transportation and a former general manager of PATH and Septa.

 BODY:
TWENTY-THREE years ago, in my last year as commissioner of Transportation in the administration of Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, I mounted a campaign to increase New Jersey's gas tax by five cents.
 At that time, in the midst of a major financing crisis, the case for the tax increase was compelling. New Jersey then ranked 17th from the lowest among the states in gas tax rate. 
 Today, it is the fourth lowest. Had the proposal then passed, more than $5 billion would have been raised and invested in improved highways and transit equipment and facilities. The increased tax would have barely been noticed in the intervening years in the midst of the steady run-up in the price of gasoline. 
 Gov. Thomas H. Kean, who succeeded Governor Byrne in 1981, continued efforts to deal with the transportation financing crisis. The governor, together with his creative Transportation commissioner, John Sheridan, succeeded in 1984 in winning bipartisan support for establishment of a transportation trust fund. The fund performed well for several years, but then became victim to year-by-year political expediency: excessive bonding, a commitment to projects of dubious necessity and the diversion of capital dollars to operations. Virtually depleted, the fund's dedicated revenue will shortly be sufficient only to cover debt service and will have negated the original intent of a pay-as-you-go revolving fund.
 In the last year, I had the privilege of serving on Governor McGreevey's blue ribbon Transportation Commission. The commission in its report, detailed the very considerable needs of transportation maintenance, operations and required expansion in capacity. It found that New Jersey had the most heavily traveled highways and one of the most extensive and effective transit systems in the nation. The commission looked at several options of scope and financing and, bowing to its sense of political reality, recommended the least costly, minimalist program. This minimal option required a 12.5-cent rise in the retail gas tax to insure the continued safety, efficiency and quality of transportation in the nation's most-affluent and densely populated state. 
 Consider this: 
 1. At the increased proposed rate of the gas tax, New Jersey would rise only to the mid-range of the other states and much of the revenue generated would be paid by out-of-state residents traveling through New Jersey. 
 2. For the owner of a midsize car who drives 15,000 miles a year, the increase in the tax would equal a cup of coffee a week -- or less than the price of a ticket to one Broadway show a year. 
 3. The tax is a ''user'' tax. That is, the taxpayer directly reaps the benefit of the investment in physical facilities and improved operations of highways, buses and trains made possible by the revenue generated. Commuters standing on crowded trains and drivers stuck in incessant and ever-growing traffic jams should be able to relate to the current problems and the severe need for relief. 
 4. More than most states, the extensive, mulitimodal transportation system of New Jersey is vital to the state's quality of life, and stimulates economic development and efficient movement of people and goods to facilitate growth and jobs. The nation's fourth-lowest gas tax simply cannot sustain one of the nation's most evolved highway and transit systems. 
 How do we protect against a repeat of the maladministration of the trust fund? The commission report strongly recommends a new structure of governance for transportation finance, including a new board charged with reviewing the priority of large projects to assure a sound cost/benefit basis and to certify annually the financial viability of the fund to protect the pay-as-you-go feature and its integrity as a revolving fund -- something akin to but less autonomous than the New York City Emergency Financial Control Board established in the 1970's to lead the city out of its fiscal crisis. 
 I believe that the gas tax proposal fell victim to a surge of premature, anti-tax assaults and that the public -- properly informed of the tradeoffs and assured of safeguards for the protection of future financial viability -- would recognize the proposal as sound public investment. 
 The alternative is to stand by and watch the steady and catastrophic deterioration of facilities, worsening traffic congestion and declining transit service. I can't help but believe that an informed public would support a bipartisan consensus to stabilize and improve New Jersey's vital transportation system.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); TRAINS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



130 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: More Women Turn to Farming

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GOLDBLATT

DATELINE: LOWER ALLOWAYS CREEK 

 BODY:
IN the 1980's, Torrey Reade was immersed in the clutter and noise of city living. She managed an investment fund, lived in a co-op in the TriBeCa section of Manhattan and hunted for traces of blue sky and greenery at every street corner. She planted petunias and moonflowers on the fire escape, but received summonses from the Fire Department. She then took to her rooftop, and sowed tomatoes, honeysuckle and dogwood trees there.
 Still, she longed to see dirt. 
 ''I decided instead of planting trees six stories up in the air I'd just go live with them,'' said Ms. Reade, 52, who has a M.B.A. from Harvard. 
 So she and her partner, Dick McDermott, bought a 200-year-old farm at the southern tip of New Jersey and started growing organic asparagus and blueberries, and breeding organically-fed sheep and cattle.
 Today Ms. Reade is one of the growing number of women who are running farms in New Jersey and nationwide. From 1997 to 2002, the number of principal female farm operators grew by 21 percent, to 1,938, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. In New Jersey, one in five farmers is a woman.
 Women have long worked on farms, but they have historically tended to marketing, bookkeeping and gardens. Only more recently have they taken to the tractors and opened farms of their own. Academics and farmers have a variety of explanations for this, ranging from primal hunting and gathering instincts to simple economics.
 ''More men are leaving farming,'' said Carolyn Sachs, a professor of rural sociology and women's studies at Pennsylvania State University. ''It's starting to be difficult for people to make a living, and so there's been more room for women to step in and inherit and buy farms.''
 As farming gets more financially stressful, more of the men are taking jobs off the farm to add to the income, and running the farm is falling to the women.
 Others are more philosophical about the issue
 ''I think that food is still really a women's issue,'' said Karen Anderson, executive director of the Northeast Organic Farming Association of New Jersey. ''It's a healthy sign of a reconnection between food systems and agriculture that women are interested in farming, not just cooking, nutrition and diet. It's going back to where it all begins.''
 Much of the growth is happening in the organic sector and community-supported agriculture. 
 ''Farming can be very isolating and so I think that for a number of women -- and to a lesser extent men -- like that personal contact,'' Ms. Sachs said. ''They like to know where their food is going and to people who appreciate the kind of food they're growing.'' 
 Jamie Morgan, 23, dreams of having her own farm one day, after graduate school, and after she gets a stable non-farming job. For now, she works at Misty Acres Farm in Reddington, learning how to raise lambs and sugar maple trees. 
 ''It's a busy-ness that's really satisfying,'' Ms. Morgan said. ''At the end of the day, I feel like I've accomplished some really good things, I've created something for the community or helped some little creature that may not have made it.''
 For Mary Jo Herbert, farming fulfilled a life-long dream. When her grandfather's vegetable farm was acquired for East Brunswick High School in 1976, Ms. Herbert and her mother bought a 55-acre dairy farm in Hopewell Township and started breeding thoroughbred horses there. The youngest of her five children was less than a year old at the time.
 ''When I was growing up women were supposed to be nurses or school teachers,'' said Ms. Herbert, who said she is just over 60 years old. They certainly weren't supposed to drive tractors.
 It helped that her husband worked off the farm as an attorney, and two of her sons live there and pitch in when they're not at their jobs off the farm.
 ''I guess it sort of gets in your blood,'' Ms. Herbert said. ''There's so much hard work that if you don't love it you can't stay in it. It's difficult to make a living. But it's very rewarding when things turn out right. When you have a beautiful foal or a good crop, it's wonderful and it's from your labor.''
 For Ms. Reade, farming stemmed from a craving for solitude and a change of scenery. 
 Though her income has ''dropped like a stone'' in the 15 years since she started farming, Ms. Reade said she has no regrets. She loves living at the end of a bumpy dirt lane, with deer and wild turkeys as her nearest neighbors, and ceiling-high bookshelves filled with titles like ''One Thousand Fungi.''
 ''We know that it's quixotic,'' Ms. Reade said. ''Nobody's getting rich doing this and that's just something that we kind of accept. But we breathe clean air and work for ourselves. We're making this really amazing product that is a good thing for the world. And it turns out you don't need to buy your clothes at Barney's.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Torrey Reade, far left, fled her co-op in TriBeCa for a farm in South Jersey. Mary Jo Herbert breeds horses in Hopewell. (Photographs by Laura Pedrock for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); WOMEN (88%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); NUTRITION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



131 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3; TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Tourism Report Finds U.S. a Big Loser in 2003

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
AFTER the triple shocks of Sept. 11, the war in Iraq and the SARS outbreak, the patterns of tourism around the world shifted last year, according to a new report. The biggest loser was the United States. And one of the few winners, unusually, was the Middle East.
 Those changes came to light in a report by the World Tourism Organization, a United Nations agency based in Madrid, which suggested that while the fear of terrorism had deterred some travelers from visiting the United States, America's measures against terrorism -- tighter visa and security regulations and heightened security alerts -- had also persuaded many people in the Middle East to vacation in their own region rather than venture farther abroad. 
 And, the report suggested, those shifts also bred a new kind of traveler, averse to long flights and to journeys planned well in advance, favoring instead cheaper vacations arranged at the last minute -- often over the Internet and not too far from home.
 Generalizations can be misleading, and there are many other factors in play. In Europe, the soaring value of the euro against both the United States dollar and the British pound has sent some tourists hurrying for their fix of seaside and suntan to non-euro (but baking hot) destinations like Turkey's Mediterranean beaches and the once war-torn Adriatic Coast of Croatia.
 But that is not the only explanation.
 ''In 2003, international tourism lived through an exceptionally difficult year in which three negative factors came together: the Iraq conflict, SARS and a persistently weak economy,'' Francesco Frangialli, the secretary general of the World Tourism Organization, said in a statement.
 As a result, the organization's report in late January said: ''Tour operators kept facing a difficult environment. Late booking persisted and 'do-it-yourself' is consolidating as a means of planning trips, strongly stimulated by the possibilities offered by the Internet.''
 ''Low-cost airlines continued their advance, most notably in Europe,'' the report said, singling out Britain where carriers such as Ryanair and EasyJet claim around 30 percent of the overall airline passenger market, compared with 11 percent in 2000.
 Over all, the report said, 2003 was the worst year on record for global tourism as measured in terms of the number of people arriving as vacationers at international destinations. Last year, the total number fell 1.2 percent to 694 million arrivals, a drop of 8.5 million from 2002.
 Perhaps the most startling statistic in the report is that, compared with the year 2000, when millennium celebrations produced a spike in tourism around the world, the biggest single victim of the tourism decline has been the United States.
 ''The big loser in terms of tourism volume is North America,'' with a 17 percent drop in the number of international visitors arriving for recreational purposes from 91.2 million in 2000 to 76.1 million in 2003. The United States, the report said, ''is still seriously struggling to overcome the impact of Sept. 11 and the subsequent war on terrorism.''
 The second most affected was Western Europe, down 3 percent from its 2000 peak of 142 million international tourists, because of ''the loss of long-haul traffic from the Americas and Asia well as the weak economy in the region,'' the report said.
 The report included a survey of 180 tourism experts from governments and private businesses in 90 countries, including the United States. The consensus among them was that 2004 promises to show an improvement as a pent-up desire for travel persuades many people to venture forth again.
 Against that, the international market is likely to remain skewed by the overwhelming strength of the euro and the weakness of the dollar. For Americans, the report said, outbound travel from the United States is expected to rebound as low inflation makes vacations accessible. ''Nevertheless, a weak dollar could stimulate domestic tourism as well as regional traffic while doubts remain whether long-haul travel to Europe will also bounce back,'' it said.
 Of all the regions in the world, perhaps the most dramatic change in tourism came in one closely linked to the war on terrorism and the war in Iraq: the Middle East.
 There, by the measure of international arrivals used in the document, tourism was up by around 10 percent from 27.6 million in 2002 to 30.4 million in 2003 largely because of tourists from one country in the region going to another rather than face political and economic difficulties of more ambitious trips. Those travelers, the report said, were deterred by ''envisaged difficulties in traveling to the Americas for political reasons and to Europe in view of the strong euro.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); SARS (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); BEACHES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TOUR OPERATORS (73%); EURO (66%); MILLENNIUM (60%) Travel and Vacations; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Visas; Travel Restrictions; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (56%); EASYJET PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD TOURISM ORGANIZATION (83%) World Tourism Organization; United Nations

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (56%); RYA (LSE) (56%); EZJ (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: Alan Cowell

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); TURKEY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CROATIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Middle East

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



132 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3; The World

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Navigates Between Islam and Democracy

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

 BODY:
A few months ago, Iraq's interim oil minister considered how to stop oil smuggling, which was causing severe gasoline shortages. 
 True, he could have had people arrested. But the minister, Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloum, decided that the secular laws could benefit from a little spiritual enhancement. 
 Mr. Uloum, a devout Muslim, turned to Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the country's pre-eminent Shiite cleric, who issued a fatwa declaring the theft of oil a violation of Islamic law. 
 In that case, the sacred and the secular coincided neatly. But it's not always so. Reconciling religion and state has been the dominant political and social issue for Islam at least since the early 1970's, when many Muslim countries rewrote their post-colonial constitutions to include a reference to Islam as the source or basis of their laws. 
 Since then, religion has colored the debate over just about every issue, from women's rights and banking regulations to censorship and penal codes. Wherever Islam is enshrined in a constitution, it has prompted disagreement over who should decide what is consistent with Islam and whether those decisions have the force of law.
 Last week, Iraq's American-appointed Governing Council nearly agreed to a temporary constitution that would embrace both democratic principles and Islamic law. Consensus appeared likely until late Friday, when some Shiite members raised objections to the draft document and sent it back for more debate.
 Their reservations, according to accounts from Baghdad, were political rather than religious, having to do with guaranteeing the majority Shiite Muslims a dominant role in government. But behind the scenes, the principal actor was again Ayatollah Sistani, whose veto of the text led the Shiite council members to withdraw their support for the agreement. (The council later issued a statement promising that the text would be in shape for a vote on Monday.)
 The role of Islam in governing Iraq is likely to remain a potential deal-breaker, not only now in discussions of a transitional ''basic law'' but also in a year or so, when Iraqis hope to elect representatives to write a permanent constitution. 
 Excluding Islam entirely is widely considered impossible. Many Iraqi political figures said that such a decision would probably doom the constitutional exercise, leaving its authors open to accusations of kowtowing to foreign influence and risking a definitive rift with the Shiite majority. 
 But accepting Shariah, or Islamic law, could raise other problems. If the will of the majority is respected only to the extent that it conforms to Islamic law, the public's will can be thwarted by any non-elected ''guardian'' of religion, noted Sohrab Behdad, an Iranian-American who writes frequently on Islamic issues. 
 ''What is Islamic may not be preferred by the majority, and what is preferred by the majority may not be Islamic,'' said Professor Behdad, who teaches economics at Denison University in Ohio. ''What if the majority decides to legalize consumption of alcohol?''
 In recent years, countries like Egypt and Morocco have changed their laws concerning divorce and inheritance in an attempt to give Muslim women more freedom than they had under a strict reading of Islamic law. Each move was met by fierce opposition from groups claiming it violated Islam -- and the countries' constitutional references to it as the basis of legislation. 
 ''Once you include Islam, you can never change it,'' said Adel Darwish, a London-based writer specializing in the Middle East. ''You run the risk that anyone challenging this concept will be accused of blasphemy and will have a fatwa hanging over their head.''
 In their deliberations over the past few weeks, the Iraqi Governing Council tried many phrases to describe an acceptable role for Islam. Although the Governing Council's draft has not been published, some council members said it described Shariah as ''a source'' of legislation. 
 In practice, however, merging constitutionally enshrined religious power with existing civil and criminal law has been difficult. The courts simply haven't known how to do it. 
 ''In all cases it turned out to be a mostly symbolic point, because when it came to the actual implementation. the courts said, We cannot be asked to reconcile this discrepancy between the enacted law and the aspirations stated in the constitution,'' said Khaled Abou el Fadl, an expert on Islamic law who is a visiting professor at Yale University. 
 ''On a rhetorical bombastic level, you have people shouting, 'Islam, Islam,''' he added. ''But when it comes to nuts and bolts, it plays a very small role except in family law.'' 
 The structure of a future government will also be part of a new constitution, and that is where religion could play a major role. But Ayatollah Sistani and many other prominent Iraqi Shiite leaders have said they do not want an Iranian-style constitution that institutionalizes the clergy as the country's ultimate political power. 
 They envision, instead, a government in which religious authorities are given a formal role as advisers or consultants to the justice system, a system more in line with the mainstream school of Shiite political thinking in Iraq.
 ''We will not have institutions within a state,'' said Faleh A. Jabar, a senior fellow at the Institute of Peace in Washington and the author of several books on Iraq's Shiites. ''Religious institutions will be there, but only in the sense that Sistani is an institution.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Baghdad, Governing Council members struggle to create a constitution that respects secular and religious values. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (95%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SMUGGLING (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ARRESTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); CRIMINAL LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BANKING LAW (72%); WOMEN (69%); WRITERS (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



133 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5; The Nation: Retraining for What?

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: If You're a Waiter, the Future Is Rosy

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
NO sooner had the Labor Department announced that the growth in jobs remained anemic in January, a mere increase of 21,000, than the Democrats held a series of news conferences on Friday to highlight a favorite campaign tactic: attacking the corporate outsourcing of jobs overseas. 
 This plays on the fears of both white-collar and blue-collar voters, because now even highly skilled jobs, like those in accounting, architecture and software development, are moving abroad. A consulting firm, Forrester Research, predicts that 3.3 million white-collar jobs will be shipped to other countries by 2015. 
 While acknowledging that this shift is painful, many government officials, economists and business leaders say there is little reason to worry so long as workers laid off in this latest wave of globalization follow one piece of advice: upgrade education and skills to make sure that they -- and the nation -- keep the jobs at the top of the global economic pyramid. 
 ''To be competitive and to maintain and improve American living standards, we have to move up the technology food chain,'' said Craig R. Barrett, chief executive of the Intel Corporation, the computer chip giant. Worried that young Americans are shunning careers in computer engineering, a development that could threaten the country's technological supremacy, Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman, recently made campaign-style visits to Harvard, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and other universities to urge students to embrace the field. 
 He could point to recent Bureau of Labor Statistics projections for 2002 to 2012 indicating a 57 percent increase in the number of jobs (up by 106,000) for network systems and data communications analysts and a 46 percent rise (up by 179,000) in positions for software engineers in applications. 
 But some economists point to those same federal forecasts to poke holes in the argument that the key to job creation is more sophisticated education and knowledge. Yes, the greatest increase is expected to be for registered nurses (an increase of 623,000 jobs) and college and university teachers (an increase of 603,000).
 But according to forecasts issued last month by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 7 of the 10 occupations with the greatest growth through 2012 will be in low-wage, service fields requiring little education: retail salesperson, customer service representative, food-service worker, cashier, janitor, waiter and nursing aide and hospital orderly. Many of these jobs pay less than $18,000 a year. Forecasting an increase of 21 million jobs from 2002 to 2012, the bureau predicted 596,000 more retail sales jobs, 454,000 more food-service jobs and 454,000 more cashier positions. 
 Forecasts like these raise fears that many Americans will end up disappointed after spending years and hundreds of thousands of dollars on college degrees. ''The education-and-training solution, while it sounds good, is simply too facile,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group. He noted that the number of Americans with college degrees who are unemployed for more than six months has quadrupled in three years. 
 Marcus Courtney, executive director of WashTech, a group of technological workers based in Seattle, voiced dismay that many highly educated workers in his city, with a 6.6 percent unemployment rate, are having a hard time finding jobs. ''Seattle has one of the nation's best-educated work forces,'' he said, ''and the notion that the solution is more education and skills rings hollow because if that were the case, then Seattle shouldn't be faced with one of the nation's highest unemployment rates.''
 Mr. Bernstein said there was nothing to stop American companies from exporting not only lower-skilled work like basic software programming, but also many sophisticated positions, like those for software architects. He pointed to what has happened to radiologists, as hospitals and health-maintenance organizations transmit X-rays to India so radiologists there can examine them. 
 ''The idea that you can have a retraining program for radiologists displaced in the global marketplace is mind-boggling,'' he said. ''What the offshoring debate has taught is the global supply of highly skilled workers is exploding before our eyes, and we have yet to really wrap our heads around the implications of that.''
 More education and training might not be right for everyone, some economic experts acknowledge. ''If you're a steelworker in Ohio who gets laid off, what are you going to do?'' said Thomas Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''If you're 57, we're going to have to find you some temporary work. If you're 27, we're going to have to retrain you right now.''
 Some experts point out that even if the going will be tough, there is no alternative to a good education. ''There will be good jobs even for higher skilled professionals who lose their jobs to outsourcing,'' said Robert Reich, labor secretary in the Clinton administration and a professor of economic and social policy at Brandeis University. ''The pay premium for getting a college education continues to rise relative to workers without college educations, and that suggests that the demand for college-educated workers will continue to increase relative to supply.''
 Behind the call for more education is the notion of ''build it and they will come.'' If Americans remain at the technological forefront, that should produce waves of new jobs just as the software revolution did in the 1990's. Constant retraining is vital, said Diana Farrell, president of the McKinsey Global Institute, a research arm of the consulting firm. ''We live in an economy of not only change,'' she said, ''but of ever-more rapid change, and the expectation that you can hold one job for 20 years is not a realistic expectation.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The occupations with the largest job growth are: registered nurse, college and university teacher, retail salesperson, customer service representative, fast-food worker and . . . (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
(Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
(Photo by Getty Images)
(Photo by John Rizzo for The New York Times)
(Photo by Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times)
. . . cashier, janitor, general manager and waiter, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. (Photo by Jake Price for The New York Times)
(Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)
(Photo by Edward Keating/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (89%); STATISTICS (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); OFFSHORING (77%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (66%); NURSES & NURSING (66%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (66%); SALES FORCE (64%); RETAIL SALES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (82%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (82%); FORR (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



134 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: New Planes Crowd Skies Once Left to Big Jets

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 6 

 BODY:
For years the skies have been crowded with airplanes, but the planes' capabilities have kept them at different altitudes, with small, piston-driven models a few thousand feet above ground, commuter turboprops in the 20,000-foot range and jet airliners at 30,000 feet or higher.
 Now, to the dismay of aviation experts, an increasing number of planes may begin competing for space at the same higher altitudes. The turboprops are disappearing and being replaced by ''regional jets,'' which fly at big-jet altitudes. Some of the older, larger jetliners are disappearing, too, each being replaced by two small regional jets. 
 The number of corporate jet flights is on the rise as the economy rebounds, in planes owned by major corporations or shared through fractional ownership, sold somewhat like time-share condominiums. And manufacturers of private planes are planning new ''microjets'' -- small, relatively cheap planes designed for flying at the altitudes, if not the speeds, of the big airliners.
 The changes are happening as the industry recovers from the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, SARS and the Iraq war, and as the level of air traffic returns to near its 2001 peak, when delays kept millions of passengers waiting in airport lounges and on planes in takeoff lines.
 ''We're expecting a crunch in late spring or summer,'' said H. Keith Hagy, assistant director of the engineering and air safety department at the Air Line Pilots Association.
 Others put the critical point slightly later, but Mr. Hagy and other experts agree that a proliferation of small jets is part of the problem. There are almost 500 regional jets, or R.J.'s, on order, and they are entering the system at the rate of about 200 a year, representing nearly all of the growth in airliner aviation.
 ''There's going to be a lot more competition for the airspace,'' said David Watrous, the president of an industry advisory group, the RTCA, formerly known as the Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics.
 Top officials of the Federal Aviation Administration say the trends will challenge them. At a meeting of the RTCA last month, Russell Chew, the agency's chief operating officer, said air traffic costs were based mostly on the number of planes, not on how big they were. ''Capacity has already begun to become tight again,'' Mr. Chew said in a speech. 
 The agency's revenue comes from ticket taxes, but ticket revenues are flat or declining. ''The financial pressures are going to be enormous,'' Mr. Chew said.
 In January, the secretary of transportation said the F.A.A. would need to triple its capacity to handle traffic in the next few years. But the administration's budget for the agency for the next fiscal year calls for an 18 percent cut in spending on new facilities and equipment, which led the agency to shelve several projects intended to increase capacity.
 Ruth Marlin, the executive vice president of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, said runway congestion, the traditional choke point for the system, could be made worse by a switch from turboprops to jets, because many airports have one runway for each. 
 The turboprops, which are planes with jet engines that turn propellers, can use older, shorter runways of less than 6,000 feet, but if the runway is given over to small jets carrying the same number of seats, the turboprop has to compete with the big jets for time on the bigger runway.
 A former president of the Air Line Pilots Association, J. Randolph Babbitt, said, ''At La Guardia, you can still only land them one every 54 seconds, or whatever the number du jour is.''
 Mr. Babbitt, now a consultant, said: ''There's a finite amount of concrete. If you take one 747 out and put two R.J.'s in, it's just one more aircraft in the air traffic environment and the runway environment.'' 
 The number of regional jets could eventually be dwarfed by a new class of private jets meant to replace high-end private planes with piston engines. Eclipse Aviation, of Albuquerque, plans to begin delivering a four-seat, twin-engine jet in 2006, for under $1 million each, which would cut current prices in half. The company already has more than 2,000 orders.
 The crowding is reviving friction between the airlines and other operators. At the RTCA meeting, Ira G. Pearl, the director of flight operations at Delta Air Lines, complained that in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., one recent Saturday, one of his company's wide-body jets, with 200 passengers on board, was delayed 45 minutes as it waited for takeoff behind 13 corporate jets.
 The F.A.A. has always operated on a first-come-first-served basis, but, Mr. Pearl said, ''H.O.V. lanes in the sky are something to think about'' -- meaning a system like car-pool lanes on a highway, also called high-occupancy-vehicle lanes, in which planes would get priority according to how many people they carried.
 Peter West, the spokesman for the National Business Aviation Association, responded in a telephone interview that business flights were a sign of a healthy economy, which would help provide the growth that would keep the airlines healthy, and that the solution was to increase capacity.
 In fact, the aviation agency recently added capacity by changing the traffic pattern above 30,000 feet, so planes can fly within 1,000-foot layers instead of 2,000-foot layers. It also has a new system for planes to navigate using a combination of guideposts, including the global positioning system and ground-based radio beacons, and to take direct paths rather than following established lanes in the sky. But it has published procedures for the system for only a handful of airports.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about a concern among aviation experts that a proliferation of small jets may crowd the airspace once left to big ones misidentified the type of plane with which the larger jets will have to compete for the use of longer runways. It is the smaller regional jets; turboprops, which the airlines may phase out, need less space for takeoff.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''AT ISSUE: Congested Skies''Airlines are using smaller ''regional jets'' seating 30 to100 passengers, instead of large jets for intermediate distances. Because more of them are needed, skies and runways are becoming more crowded.2000Regional jets: 8%Turboprop: 58Large jets: 28Piston powered: 62001Regional jets: 11%Turboprop: 58Large jets: 25Piston powered: 62002Regional jets: 16%Turboprop: 57Large jets: 21Piston powered: 62003Regional jets: 21%Turboprop: 54Large jets: 18Piston powered: 7GROWTH OF REGIONAL JET TRAFFIC AT SELECTED AIRPORTSShare of scheduled flights.Denver2000: 1%2003: 14O'Hare2000: 142003: 24Atlanta2000: 92003: 25Reagan2000: 72003: 32(Sources by Dept. of Transportation
 Federal Aviation Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BUDGETS (74%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (72%); CIVIL AVIATION (72%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TERRORISM (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); TICKET SALES (63%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



135 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 13; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS: VOWS

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Adam Wolfensohn and Jennifer Small

BYLINE: By LOLA OGUNNAIKE

 BODY:
HAD a mediator been on hand at their first meeting, Jennifer Small and Adam Wolfensohn might have fared better. They were invited by Stephen Garrett, a mutual friend, as part of a group attending a cabaret show at the Carlyle in New York late in the winter of 1996. 
 Sitting across from each other, Mr. Wolfensohn and Ms. Small spent much of the evening bickering about where Egypt is. Ms. Small argued that it is in Africa. Mr. Wolfensohn, the son of James D. Wolfensohn, the president of the World Bank in Washington, agreed -- well, sort of. 
 ''I knew it was on the continental shelf of Africa,'' said Mr. Wolfensohn, 33, a dark-haired documentary filmmaker. ''But I said one thinks of it as in the Middle East.'' 
 Ms. Small, also 33, a strawberry blonde who works in film production, recalled: ''It just bothered me that he wouldn't agree with me. We didn't get along at all.'' 
 They met again, at a New York Christmas party a couple of years later. They steered clear of geography, and things went smoother -- well, sort of. ''I thought he was really cute, but he was dating someone,'' said Ms. Small, who by then had joined Gigantic Pictures in New York. They lost touch. 
 Cannes, not Cairo, finally brought them together, in 1999. Ms. Small had decided to skip the Cannes Film Festival that year. At the last minute, she changed her mind and went, staying in a group apartment there. At Mr. Garrett's urging, Mr. Wolfensohn, fresh from a breakup, also decided to go to Cannes, where he and Mr. Garrett shared an apartment with others -- in the same building. 
 Ms. Small ended up hanging out with Mr. Garrett and Mr. Wolfensohn at their place, which she likened to a flophouse. Over the course of the festival, Ms. Small, Mr. Wolfensohn and a band of friends trooped to screenings by day and to parties by night. Mr. Wolfensohn, more connected than his buddies, did his best to ensure that no one in the group was left on the wrong side of the velvet rope.
 ''He was so sweet and hugely considerate,'' she said, ''and people are not like that, especially at a film festival like Cannes, where it's eat or be eaten.'' 
 They soon discovered they had loads in common. They marveled that they had booked Cannes with the same travel agent. Mr. Wolfensohn was a partner in Red Ramona, a New York music studio, and Ms. Small had a cat named Ramona.
 The night before Ms. Small returned home, she met Mr. Wolfensohn for a drink. She thought it was a date. He took along another woman. 
 ''What were you thinking?'' Ms. Small asked Mr. Wolfensohn one afternoon not long ago in her pink-walled Greenwich Village apartment, which they now share. ''Were you expecting us to arm-wrestle for you?'' Mr. Wolfensohn chuckled nervously. ''I thought it was a group thing,'' he offered. 
 Later on that evening in Cannes, they recalled, they ditched the third wheel and then reconnected at a party for the film ''Judy Berlin.'' ''We kissed a tiny little bit,'' Ms. Small said, ''and he brought me Gummi Worms'' (her favorite). 
 Ms. Small called after the party to thank Mr. Wolfensohn for a good time. ''He picked up the phone, said, 'I'm not answering this,' and hung up,'' she said. She was perplexed. He sheepishly explained, ''I was drunk.''
 The next morning, he arrived at her Cannes doorstep, with apologies and offering a hug. All was forgiven. Back home, Ms. Small called her sister, Susan Small, and declared, ''I think I'm done looking.'' 
 They were married on Feb. 29 by Rabbi Harlan J. Wechsler at the Angel Orensanz Center for the Arts on the Lower East Side of Manhattan amid flowers, friends and family, including the bride's father, Dr. Frederick A. Small, a Tenafly, N.J., obstetrician and gynecologist, who delivered Brooke Shields. It was Oscar night, and so the stairs were covered in a red carpet of rose petals. The guests, who included dignitaries from the United Nations and the Federal Reserve Board, were encouraged to fill out Oscar ballots. (The couple promised the winner a souvenir from their honeymoon on Virgin Gorda.) 
 They have yet to decide how they will celebrate their anniversary, which will fall on leap day. ''We could celebrate both on the 28th and the first'' Ms. Small suggested, adding: ''We will reach an agreement. We've got 365 days to figure that one out.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ANGEL ORENSANZ CENTER, FEB. 29 -- The bridegroom's parents, Elaine and James D. Wolfensohn, aloft for a hora. Top, the couple listen to a toast by his father. (Photographs by Christopher Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (88%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (88%); FILM (88%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (88%); FESTIVALS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (72%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) EGYPT (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); AFRICA (90%); MIDDLE EAST (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



136 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 4; COMMUNITIES

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Finding a Voice And Speaking Up

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
ERNEST S. PRINCE, the president of the Urban League of Westchester County, gets a sinking feeling when he looks around the boardroom tables during meetings about issues of importance to minorities. 
 ''I see a lot of people who look like me, agewise,'' said Mr. Prince, who is 61. ''We need young people and young ideas and young blood there.'' 
 During a recent meeting of young minority professionals at the Urban League recently, several spoke about a separate kind of sinking feeling, the one that comes from looking around meeting rooms and seeing no one who looks like them. 
 Mayo Bartlett, 37, now a lawyer in private practice, was in 1992 one of the first African-Americans hired by the Westchester district attorney's office. ''I made good contacts, but it was a little less conducive for me to excel, compared to others with other connections.'' A mentor, a tip about how to avoid a difficult assignment, advice on which bar association to join -- such inside insights would have been helpful, he said. 
 So the Urban League of Westchester County has convened a group called Westchester County Young Professionals, to help address both problems -- to form a group of young potential leaders who could serve on boards of directors or advisory panels in the community, and to improve their chances for professional growth, economic well-being and social equality. 
 Mr. Prince has been troubled to see a suburban brain drain that takes the most talented young professionals away. 
 ''They go where there's an opportunity to move up, to have a social life, to be in a group of people like them,'' he said. ''That doesn't exist in much of Westchester.''
 He has seen a need for young black professionals to become involved in the problems they face, so solutions come from them, and not from people who lack first-hand knowledge of their experiences. He recalled asking groups of young adults how many had been asked to serve on boards or become involved in community affairs, other than through their churches, and he was dismayed to see no one had been.
 ''Decisions are being made that impact our lives, and they're going to be made by somebody,'' he said. ''If they don't know we exist, they're not going to ask us to participate. These are young people with a very important, valuable voice, who are willing to be involved in these things. We're going to do everything we can to encourage this.''
 In the workplace, young minority workers can be likewise invisible, especially after what Mr. Prince has seen as a decline in corporate initiatives to hire a work force that reflects the racial breakdown of the county's population, which is 14 percent black and 16 percent Hispanic.
 ''If you ask a young, male, African-American engineer, do you interact with other African-Americans at that level, he'll say, 'No, there aren't any,''' Mr. Prince said. ''We're really the first generation in some companies.''
 So far, the young professionals' group has had a small planning meeting and a larger gathering to honor Mr. Bartlett with a ''Rising Star'' award, recognizing his professional and civic successes. He has directed the Westchester County Bar Association and the Association of Black Lawyers of Westchester County, and won the 2001 Bias Crime Unit Achievement Award from the National Association of Counties. He also is a member of the Westchester County Human Rights Commission. About 50 people attended the awards ceremony, held Jan. 29 at the corporate headquarters of Heineken in White Plains.
 Joy Scantlebury, who attended the award ceremony, said she came home and called up many of her friends to encourage them to join the group. 
 ''I said: 'You need to come. People don't know there are so many young professionals out there,''' she said. ''Sometimes when you don't see it, you assume it doesn't exist.''
 THE group, for people ages 21 to 40, plans to address social, economic and political obstacles the members may face, and aims to sharpen leadership skills and provide networking opportunities, while getting young adults more involved in the community. 
 ''Westchester has about a million people, but we tend not to interact with each other very much,'' Mr. Bartlett said. ''If I can share my personal experience, that also helps us foster a sense of community.'' 
 Jamala Smith, a social worker for Westchester County, and Crysta A. Jones, who works as a program coordinator for a health information center at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore, suggested another way the group could help young minority workers. ''Sometimes people are getting a job after college just to pay the bills,'' Ms. Smith said. ''They go out on interviews and it's so frustrating, they kind of just settle. Many of my colleagues are not working in their field. They say it's not paying enough to pay my rent, especially to stay in the Westchester area.''
 She said she knows five or six young people who took jobs outside their expertise, like management jobs in retail, once they became frustrated. Ms. Jones said she knew of about five. 
 ''We can help people to not become stagnated,'' Ms. Smith said. ''We can say, 'How many interviews have you been on?' so they don't stay in that rut. A lot of people stay in that rut a very, very long time.''
 Ms. Scantlebury recalled being in that situation after graduating from Smith College with a degree in Spanish and Latin American studies. Like Ms. Jones, she had to live at home when she found Westchester rents unaffordable. 
 ''I had to eat some humble pie,'' she said, recalling her days working temporary jobs. ''It didn't have to have anything to do with Spanish anymore. I wish I had had someone, preferably someone of color, who had understood the situation, and had said, 'Here are some avenues.''' She eventually spoke to some former teachers and opted for teaching English as a Second Language at the English Language Institute of Manhattanville College.
 The group discussion often returned to the issue of affordable housing, while the lack of affordable child care has particularly troubled Ms. Smith.
 ''People move to New Jersey or Connecticut, or work in the city,'' Ms. Jones said, ''but they can't afford to live in Westchester.'' 
 Sorraya Sampson, 39, the executive vice president and chief operating officer of the county Urban League, said she had friends who had moved to Maryland or Virginia rather than settling in Westchester. 
 ''We are disappearing, we are invisible,'' she said. ''We go to work, then we go home, because there's not a designated structure for community outreach.''
 Mr. Prince concluded that, even in 2004, there are special circumstances that African-Americans have to contend with, including the lack of professional peers, a five-to-one ratio of women to men in the professions, and misperceptions from white residents that affirmative action had solved racial inequities. 
 ''It's a legacy of things that happened in the past,'' he said. ''They need to be recognized, and a lot of them can be solved if they are recognized.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayo Bartlett, Crysta A. Jones and Jamala Smith, above from left, and Joy Scantlebury, right, attend a meeting with Ermest S. Prince, far left, head of the Urban League of Westchester. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OFFICE FURNITURE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); COUNTIES (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



137 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2; Page Two: Feb. 29-March 6

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Educators Rethink The 'Tween Grades

BYLINE: By David M. Herszenhorn

 BODY:
SOMETIME between the ages of 10 and 13 even the sweetest child is bound to go haywire. The phenomenon confounds parents and teachers, and explains why middle school -- typically the sixth through eighth grades -- is often called the Bermuda Triangle of education.
 America's more than 15,000 middle schools have become a perilous crossing for some nine million young adolescents. Almost universally across districts, whether urban, suburban or rural, student performance stalls, test scores plummet and behavior problems abound. 
 In the past, experts often offered a blunt analysis: ''It's puberty.'' But faced with new research and stricter academic standards, many school districts are concluding that the real problem is the concept of middle school itself. ''I personally don't subscribe to the notion that there is so much going on from the neck down that there is nothing going on from the neck up,'' said Paul S. George, an education professor at the University of Florida.
 In New York City, Philadelphia, Miami and Rochester, school boards are moving to recreate old-fashioned schools that run from kindergarten through eighth-grade. New York's plan, announced last week, could eventually eliminate as many as two-thirds of the city's 218 middle schools.
 ''Basically the big thing with middle school is it brings about another transition,'' said Jaana Juvonen, a developmental psychology professor at U.C.L.A. and the lead author of a major study on middle schools to be released this week by the RAND Corporation. ''Development is fostered by continuity not discontinuity.''
 Transition is not the only issue. Teachers in the middle grades are often trained for elementary or high school, meaning students are either babied or pushed too hard. Public money is often directed at early grades or high school.
 But changing school models may not work either, Professor George said. ''What makes sense is to talk about how we should teach students who are young adolescents, regardless of where they are housed.'' David M. Herszenhorn


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); MENTAL HEALTH (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



138 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2; The Week Ahead

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: TRADE

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Becker

 BODY:
On Wednesday, the government will release the first trade figures for this year, and the biggest question is whether the sliding dollar will help reduce the deficit --$489.4 billion, which represents 5 percent of the gross domestic product. 
 Whatever the figure, Democrats are sure to raise questions about the dangers posed by the deficit. Unlike other advanced industrial nations -- the European Union and Japan are running surpluses -- the United States is in a position more familiar to developing nations, depending on foreigners to service the debt from its trade imbalance. And economists wonder how long countries like Japan and China will finance the United States trade deficit. Elizabeth Becker


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



139 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; PT2; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine; Pg. 18; OUR CORRESPONDENT IN CAPE TOWN

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: South Africa: Geology Is Destiny

BYLINE: By Michael Wines. 
Michael Wines is the Johannesburg bureau chief of The Times.

 BODY:
It is among the world's oldest mountains, an ancient slab of granite and sandstone, steamrolled flat by glaciers and shoved some 3,563 feet into the air by tectonic forces 280 million years ago. When South America tore away from Africa 130 million years later, meandering to its present position, it became the world's most gorgeous bay front. Wind and rain have since scoured away nearly half its original height. The remainder is resilient, but eventually, geologists say, it will be worn to a nub, too.
 When I first saw Table Mountain, its flat top draped with fog during a drizzly spring twilight, I marveled at Cape Town's enviable luck. South Africa's Mother City is seductive for many reasons. Erase that grand backdrop, though, and it would be just another charming town on a bay.
 The truth, you come to realize after spending time here, is that the mountain gives Cape Town more than grandeur. It puts its stamp on the city with a forcefulness that geography reserves for a handful of special places: Istanbul, the polyglot creation of the Bosporus, for instance. Or New Orleans, slow-cooked in Mississippi Delta water. 
 In Cape Town's case, I would argue, Table Mountain is not just the city's granite backbone, but its heart -- an eternal and unavoidable reminder, visible even on skyscraper-shadowed streets, that life is more than its mundane parts. Table Mountain is why Cape Town exists; European explorers stopped and rested here in the early 1500's, restocking their water supplies from a freshwater stream spawned near the top of the mountain (the peak gets three times as much rain as the valley below).
 The Swedish naturalist Carolus Linnaeus studied hundreds of plant specimens from the cape area and called it ''paradise on earth.'' (Table Mountain alone has 1,460 species of plants, more than the British Isles.)
 Early Dutch sailors were so delighted to drop anchor here that they rewarded the first seaman to sight the mountain with 10 guilders and a jug of wine.
 Today Cape Town is South Africa's R & R stop -- the place to which much of the country gravitates to sun, to party, to dip a toe in an Atlantic Ocean rendered frigid by an Antarctic current and to drink some of the planet's best wine, bottled at scores of vineyards just miles from downtown.
 According to the Cape Town tourist office, more than five million visitors come here each year, 8 in 10 of them South Africans. Only now is the rest of the world waking up: prime ocean and mountain properties have doubled in price in the last three or four years, largely on the strength of foreign interest. An invasion of four- and five-star hotels and world-class stores, most sprouting in the last five years, are rapidly making the city a global vacation destination.
 ''It's a little world where you feel nature is open to you,'' says Conrad Burke, an editor at the national SABC television network who splits his time between Cape Town and Johannesburg. ''In Joburg, you have to pay for everything. Here, you don't have to pay for the outdoors. It's all there, and it gives you a great sense of freedom.'' The interplay of spectacular physical beauty and near-perfect weather -- itself a product, in part, of the mountain's climatic influence -- has an almost narcotic effect. Ask any Capetonian.
 This is a big town, 2.86 million in the metropolitan area. But even during working hours, local people seem not only to be on permanent vacation, but also to be proud of it. ''You know why they call it the Mother City?'' goes the wisecrack that every resident knows by heart. ''Because everything takes nine months to get done.'' Not true, of course.
 Capetonians do keep to a schedule, if only for fun: every day at noon they set off a cannon that can be heard citywide, ostensibly to help people set their watches. On Wednesday evenings at 6, the Royal Cape Yacht Club holds yacht races in Table Bay and serves drinks, though not necessarily in that order, wags say. But before dismissing the broader point, head down Buitengracht Street to the city center. At its foot, near the waterfront, you'll find a massive and unfinished freeway interchange, its concrete loops flying off into thin, rusty-rebarred air. It has been that way for close to two decades. These days, filmmakers use the loops to stage fiery car crashes for action movies. Last year, civic leaders finally converted one of the loops into a parking garage. Lethargy has left the waterfront blessedly cloverleaf-free. ''People worried about it for a while,'' said Mr. Burke. ''Then they forgot about it, and went on with life.''
 Unsurprisingly, the best way to see Cape Town is to head a couple of miles back up Buitengracht Street to the lower cableway station, and hitch a vertiginous ride on the barrel-shaped, rotating cable car to Table Mountain's peak. (An alternate way, for those with the legs and the local concept of time, is to hike to the top, a two- to three-hour trek along any of several rocky trails.) Once there, amid the wind-gnarled rocks, the fynbos -- Afrikaans for ''fine bush,'' a profusion of daisies, lilies and other plants found only on the cape -- and flocks of dassies, guinea-piggish animals dimly related to the elephant, it becomes breathtakingly clear what geology has wrought. The mountain has cleaved the city along both geographic and economic lines. To the north, cuddled by the mountain and its lesser bookends, Devil's Peak and Signal Hill, lies Cape Town proper -- the rich business, residential, tourist and shopping districts, the sweeping, gorgeous expanse of Table Bay and, a few miles out to sea, Robben Island. To the west, behind Signal Hill, are Clifton, Sea Point and Camps Bay, places with scads of European-owned pieds-a-terre and dramatic views of both the Atlantic and the Twelve Apostles, Table Mountain's majestic, canyon-scarred flank.
 To the east are vineyards, more peaks and clutches of upscale shopping malls. And to the south, well out of sight, are the Cape Flats, the bleak, sandy plain where thousands of blacks were relocated after being exiled from Cape Town, and where throngs of jobless migrants have settled since. From there, Table Mountain is dimly viewed from atop a tar-roofed shack, if at all. For this is South Africa, and unfairness here is indelible, engraved in recent history. Even a decade after apartheid, it is the template that every resident imposes on what he sees and does.
 What one doesn't see from atop the mountain is a community of some 50,000 blacks, whites and mixed-race coloreds nestled against the mountainside east of downtown -- the city's lively, bohemian soul. Bulldozers demolished it in 1966 after the apartheid government declared the land a whites-only area. The blacks and coloreds were scattered to the Cape Flats, to places like Khayelitsha, now a sprawl of shanties housing at least 500,000 impoverished black Capetonians and migrant squatters. In ''Dark Star Safari: From Cairo to Cape Town,'' Paul Theroux tells of being warned that Khayelitsha was too dangerous to visit. Having been there, I differ slightly: don't go alone. But with a guide, it is not just safe, but a rich cultural and artistic experience -- and a lesson in the resilience of the human spirit.
 Capetonians do not forget about apartheid, as they do with unfinished freeways. Yet race has never been quite so much a flash point, perhaps because the town is such a stew of skin colors and languages. ''Today it's financial apartheid, mostly, not racial,'' Ursula Stevens, a lifelong resident, explained as she left St. George's Cathedral, the austere midtown church that was Archbishop Desmond Tutu's pulpit in the dying days of white rule. ''It will take a few generations,'' she said with typical Capetonian patience. ''But it will change.''
 Maybe it's the weather, though Joburg weather is actually finer. Maybe it's the port-city mixing of centuries-old cultures. Maybe, as I am certain, it is Table Mountain, and the intangible sense of freedom and limitlessness that it conveys. Whatever it is, Cape Town is different. There are no electric fences in the modest Malay Quarter, at the foot of Signal Hill on downtown's eastern edge. They still celebrate the end of slavery there, every January, with a Mardi Gras-style parade of outrageous costumes. They also repaint their homes, usually in blinding shades of pink, yellow, blue and purple. The Malay Quarter is the only place where I have ever seen a sponge-painted house, and the only place where I have ever seen three neon-chartreuse houses. It is quintessential Cape Town. ''Come back next year,'' said an aging, gold-toothed man named Roland, ''and they'll all be different.'' Trust me, Roland; I will. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Table Mountain, its top mantled in mist, looms behind the harbor. Below: How far to Sydney? Buenos Aires? Miami?
Houses in the Malay Quarter are repainted a different brilliant color every year.
 Shantytowns on the edge of the city are home to impoverished blacks and migrant squatters. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)Map (Map by Myra Klockenbrink for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (92%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (91%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (74%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (65%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (63%); WATER QUALITY (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%) Travel and Vacations; Special Sections

PERSON: Michael Wines

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (78%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (70%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (96%); AFRICA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (73%); TURKEY (70%) Cape Town (South Africa); South Africa; Table Mountain (South Africa)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



140 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; PT2; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2348 words

HEADLINE: Tarifa

BYLINE: By Tim Golden. 
Tim Golden is an investigative reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
For miles, the two-lane highway that winds down to Spain's Costa de la Luz had shown us only the mythical light of our destination, yellowing the dry fields and whitewashed towns. There was no hint of the sea itself. Then, as we rounded a bend near the ancient port of Tarifa, the horizon was suddenly filled with signs: huge, wing-shaped kites that rocked back and forth in the sky, rising up from time to time as if lifted by an unseen hand.
 I had dreamed of trying the neoteric sport of kiteboarding, and this part of the Andalusian coast had seemed to promise a nice, low-key place to learn. Or so I had convinced my girlfriend, until we ventured out onto a promontory above the beach. There, beneath the riot of brilliantly colored kites, we saw a bay covered with kiteboarders -- streaking along on their boards, arcing effortlessly into the air, floating back down to race off again. Pulling and twisting on their lines, they looked like sun-bleached puppets come to life. And there seemed to be hundreds of them. 
 If crossbreeding is the creative fixation of extreme sports, then kiteboarding (or kitesurfing, as it is also known) may have been inevitable. It owns obvious debts to windsurfing and wakeboarding, from which some of its equipment is derived. But the high arts of kiteboarding have less to do with surfing than they do with flight. The boards are smaller and much lighter than windsurfers; on a windy day, a skilled kiteboarder can launch 30 or 40 feet into the air without so much as a wave. They can also fly into a nearby building or highway. At least 17 people have been killed in kiteboarding-related accidents since 2000, according to a safety adviser for one of the sport's governing bodies.
 Such dangers notwithstanding, kiteboarding has spread with terrific speed. A fledgling international organization now accredits schools from Australia to Finland, and dozens more operate independently or under the auspices of other governing bodies. But all of that constitutes a challenge when trying to figure out the best place to learn. I was advised to look for a well-established school somewhere with wide beaches and steady winds. Some experts recommended the Outer Banks of North Carolina or Hurghada, on the Egyptian Red Sea, because the shallows extend far offshore and beginners can stand right back up after a fall. Then there are what one friend described to me as the ''Rasta places'' of the sport -- Maui and Cape Town and Cabarete, in the Dominican Republic -- meccas that attract the most ardent of kiteboarding pilgrims.
 All of them sounded alluring, but one of the names tugged insistently at my imagination. Tarifa is the southernmost town on the European mainland, and reputed to be the windiest. Moorish invaders landed there in 710, and the town took its name from the Berber general, Tarif ibn Malluk, who seized the garrison that summer. The Moors held on to Tarifa for nearly six centuries, and though the town's main drag honors the Castilian king who retook it in 1292, Sancho IV (El Bravo), the Arab influence is still present from the old city battlements to the design of the trendiest nightspots.
 Following the Moors, the Castilians and the French, the kiteboarders laid siege to Tarifa a few years ago, drawn, like those before them, to its unique geography. The winds that funnel through the Strait of Gibraltar are said to blow more than 300 days a year. When they blow too directly onshore in Tarifa, determined kiteboarders can usually drive around the tip of the peninsula to catch them from a more favorable angle near Algeciras. I saw other advantages as well. The coastline between Cadiz and Tarifa, with its long, pristine beaches, is perhaps Spain's most unspoiled. The Andalusian White Towns, magical whitewashed warrens that recall the Moorish past, would be fairly close by. The seafood was said to be remarkable.
 Tarifa is now home to some 15,000 people, although to drive through the center of town is to wonder who among them doesn't kiteboard. The boulevard that approaches the old city has become a kind of kiteboarding bazaar, lined by signs for shops with names like Shark Kite and Art of Surfing. The kiters support a thriving secondary economy of juice bars, coffeehouses and Internet cafes, and there is a busy trade in kiteboarding instruction. But none of the 15-odd schools were affiliated with either the International Kiteboarding Organization or its American counterpart, the Professional Air Sports Association (like others in Spain and France, they were regulated by national sporting associations). I was at a loss to choose among them.
 After some foraging on the Internet and a few unhelpful phone calls, I finally found a young British kiteboarding instructor who was headed to Tarifa and offered to help. He was going for what he referred to meaningfully as the Third Annual European Kitesurfing Championships; they were relocating there, he said, because of the reliability of Tarifa's winds. He eventually found me a local instructor, Nacho Yuste, who was entered in the competition but willing to juggle my lessons with his heats.
 When we met up at his kiteboarding shop, however, Nacho was not a happy man. Tarifa's famous wind had been truant for most of the previous three days, and the competition was already behind schedule. Now, the weather reports on Nacho's laptop suggested that the wind might vanish altogether. Hoping for the best, the three of us drove to Valdevaqueros, the beach where the contest was taking place, and picked our way through a muddy lot that was haphazardly filled with hipster German hatchbacks, live-in delivery trucks and post-Woodstock vans.
 The competitors were parked in similar disorder on the picnic tables overlooking the beach. They had come from as far away as Norway and Turkey, but the origins of the men, in particular, were obscured by the soul patches, shaved heads and dreadlocks they all wore. The kiters seemed to wear a uniform expression, too, as if the air had been let out of them.
 We stood in line for free orange juice and muesli and sat down to wait for the wind. Nacho began with a little theory. We would fly our kites in a three-dimensional arc, he explained. With the wind at our backs, the kite would pull hardest when it was directly in front of us. We would be able to hold it steady at the top, or zenith, of the arc and fly it under greater control along the arc's outer edges. That afternoon, my girlfriend and I started out practicing with a two-line kite that looked only a bit larger than the sort one might buy at a toy store. But even in wind so limp that it left the competitors slumped over their picnic tables, the small kite pulled me skidding across the beach.
 We awoke the next morning to a grim, gray rain. The cafes in town were unusually full, crowded with morose-looking men and women huddled over lattes and herbal teas. Out at the beach, the would-be competitors looked as depressed as I guessed kiteboarders could look. Our antidote was a trip to one of the White Towns, Zahara de los Atunes, and a great fish lunch with some friends at an old hotel overlooking the sea. Returning to Tarifa that evening, we concluded that even if the wind did pick up again, our next lesson might not be Nacho's primary concern. I went looking for another school and found a well-regarded Frenchman, Jerome Clausse, who said he would fit us into a novice class whenever the wind returned.
 The sun came up blazing the next morning, but still no wind. By early afternoon, Tarifa had the torpor of a ship becalmed; now only the bars were crowded. I was deep into a nap when the phone rang about 5 o'clock. The sky had gone gray. It was Gabriel, or Gabi, as our new Basque instructor was called. ''I'll see you at the beach in 10 minutes,'' he said.
 Out on the sand, Gabi went back over some of the ground we'd covered with Nacho, but with an even greater emphasis on safety. (He happened to mention the story of a novice kiteboarder near Barcelona who had been dragged into a busy highway along the beach and killed by traffic.) He showed us how to inflate the struts and the leading edge of the kite, which would keep it afloat and allow us to relaunch it from the water when it fell. ''It's no problem if you let go and the kite crashes,'' Gabi told us in Spanish. ''Remember that.''
 We were introduced to a young Latvian businessman, one of several classmates who would join us over the next few days. This time we flew larger kites, moving up in size as we grew comfortable with their power. Over the next couple of hours, I started to get the hang of it, learning how to use the wind and how to avoid it. Then, suddenly, Gabi was shouting at us to land our kites and start packing them up. We just barely got the equipment put away when a thunderstorm rolled in over us. The next day was another calamity of sun and calm. Our despair grew, and the European Kitesurfing Championships sputtered to a disastrous close.
 Through an English friend, we were introduced to some of the washed-up elite, a crew of local Spaniards and expatriates who had abandoned their various careers to write, make art and (mostly) kiteboard. This led to several long, entertaining nights at assorted Tarifa hangouts. We avoided the thumping neon-lighted techno clubs around town, fortifying ourselves instead at small bars that served some of the best seafood tapas I had ever tasted. Our center of gravity was the Zen Cafe, a sushi place where the American chef, a young veteran of Hollywood film production, liked to close up shop (or not open at all), roll an Oriental rug out onto the sidewalk and wait for friends to drop by for drinks. There, I felt, the relaxed attitude of the Andalusians meshed especially well with the laid-back culture of the kiteboarders. But maybe it was just late.
 By Tuesday, our fifth day in town, the lousy weather had left Gabi a backlog of four students waiting to complete what was nominally our second four-hour period of instruction. Finally, however, the wind began to cooperate. We picked up wet suits, life jackets and harnesses, and headed back to Valdevaqueros. Gabi gave a brief description of our day's lesson, which involved a rather undignified maneuver known as the ''body drag.'' I launched my kite and shuffled toward the water's edge.
 I was now attached to the thing: the ''control bar'' in which I held the lines of the kite was hooked into a harness that wrapped tightly around my waist and thighs like a sumo diaper. This was not comfortable, but it got less comfortable whenever my kite dipped into the wind and pulled me skittering down the beach. From Gabi's stern commands, I understood that we were to wade waist-deep into the ocean, lean forward and turn the kites into the offshore wind. We would then steer ourselves out to sea in a kind of guided dog paddle, before turning back in the other direction to return to shore.
 I went first, my eyes fixed on the unsteady kite above me. I stubbed my toes across the rocky shore until I could feel the cool Atlantic rising up over my legs. The loud, Basque-accented barking in my ear was apparently a cue. I leaned forward, turned my kite into the wind and shot out to sea. Thrilled with my forward progress (and the inexplicable fact of my head still above water), I decided to go for it. I turned my kite more strongly into the wind, and it plunged toward the sea. Then, turning it frantically back skyward, I managed to pull it out of the dive -- and back into the full force of the wind.
 Then I was flying, too -- only in a prostrate, hanging-on-for-dear-life kind of way. (I had seen a version of this technique on a late-night episode of the television series ''Jackass.'') My landing was also memorable. After a little gasping and coughing, I was able to spit out the quart or so of seawater I had swallowed and make my way back to shore. I couldn't wait to try it with a board.
The pace of our instruction picked up with the force of the wind. Gabi's initial shyness gave way to a pedagogical technique that might have frightened a Marine drill sargeant. ''Asi nooooo! Asi nooooo!'' he would yell. ''Not like thaaaaaaat!'' It was some time before I stopped hearing this admonition in my dreams. After some more successful body dragging, Gabi produced a couple of boards. One, a directional board, looked like a miniature windsurfer, with a pointed nose and fins at the tail. The other was a more standard twin-tip: light and thin, turned up at both ends and not too buoyant. It looked much like a wakeboard or snowboard, and could be ridden in either direction without switching one's feet in the foot straps.
 Now came the hard part. We were to float out into the frigid ocean on our backs, holding the control bar steady with our left hand and pulling the board up to us with our right. We would slip our feet into the foot straps (preferably without looking down) and pull our knees up to our chests so that the far edge of the board was angled about 45 degrees out of the water. We would then pull the kite into a steep dive, turn sharply before it crashed and, with luck, lift ourselves out of the water.
 As I floated out to sea, I heard something like an air raid siren coming from the beach. It was Gabi, shouting, ''Zeeee-niiiiith! Zeeee-niiiiith!'' as my kite swooped haphazardly from side to side. (With his Basque accent, this came out, ''Thaaaay-neeeethh!'') I steadied the kite and attached myself to the board. Then, I turned the kite down, cranked it back up and launched myself out of the water with a velocity that amazed me. The only problem was that I had somehow turned my board sideways. That meant that I flew out of the water in a kind of head-over-heels spin, and returned to the surface with a rather epic splat.
 Finally, though, it happened. On my fourth or fifth try, I got into position in the water, dived the kite and shot up onto my board. I maneuvered the kite back and forth in front of me, keeping it in the wind, and it whisked me along the water. It didn't last all that long, but it was glorious. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sunset on the beach. The old port is the southernmost on Europe's mainland, and the winds that funnel through the Strait of Gibraltar are said to blow more than 300 days a year. Kiteboarders invaded the town a few years ago, drawn by the geography and the weather.
Soufiane Haimini, a professional kiteboarder from Morocco, shows off his aerial moves. Although kiteboarding derives from windsurfing and wakeboarding, its high arts have more to do with flight than with surfing.
 On the street, a boarder with his gear. (Photographs by Christoffer Sjostrom for The New York Times)Map (Map by Myra Klockenbrink for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURFING (97%); WATER SPORTS (91%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); BEACHES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (75%); WAKEBOARDING (75%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%) Travel and Vacations; Kiteboarding; Special Sections

PERSON: Tim Golden

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) SPAIN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); FINLAND (78%); EUROPE (73%) Spain; Costa De La Luz (Spain)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



141 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Berkshire Says 4th Quarter Profit Doubled

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the investment company run by Warren E. Buffett, said yesterday that fourth-quarter profit doubled as the company raised prices at its insurance units and investment gains tripled.
 Net income rose to $2.39 billion, or $1,553 per Class A share, from $1.18 billion, or $772 a share, a year earlier, the company said in a statement on its Web site. 
Profit included $845 million in realized investment gains.
 Mr. Buffett, 73, has turned around General Re, the reinsurance company that cost Berkshire $7.5 billion in underwriting losses from 1998 to 2002, by raising rates and dropping unprofitable clients. Economic growth in the United States helped increase profit at several Berkshire subsidiaries, including Acme Brick.
Total revenue rose 64 percent, to $19.86 billion from $12.1 billion. Shares of Berkshire, which is based in Omaha, rose $1,000, to $93,000 on Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INSURANCE (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WEB SITES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (95%); ACME BRICK CO INC (56%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (95%); BRK.A (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (95%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (95%); NAICS423320 BRICK, STONE & RELATED CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5032 BRICK, STONE, & RELATED CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (56%); SIC3251 BRICK & STRUCTURAL CLAY TILE (56%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (74%) NEBRASKA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



142 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CANDIDATES

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Bush Defends 9/11 Advertisements as Kerry Visits Texas

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Richard W. Stevenson reported from Crawford for this article and David M. Halbfinger from Houston and San Antonio.

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., March 6 

 BODY:
President Bush on Saturday turned aside demands that he drop campaign advertisements showing scenes of devastation after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, saying his handling of that day and his leadership in the war on terrorism should be part of the political debate this year.
 Mr. Bush's remarks came as he and Senator John Kerry, his presumptive Democratic rival, traded punches all day on Mr. Bush's home turf over taxes, trade and foreign policy. 
 Answering questions at his ranch here, Mr. Bush tried to go on the offensive on the economy. Asked about criticism from Mr. Kerry about the sluggish pace of employment growth despite repeated tax cuts, Mr. Bush suggested that the senator's proposals to eliminate tax cuts for people making more than $200,000 a year and re-examine trade agreements would be job killers.
 At a rally in San Antonio, Mr. Kerry mocked Mr. Bush in response, saying in what sounded like a very Boston drawl that Mr. Bush had ''told one of those taaall Texas tales.'' He added: ''He's trying to suggest to Americans, 'You elect John Kerry, he's going to raise your taxes.' ''
 ''That's the old scare tactic,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''And I just want to say back to the president: I hope this early in the campaign he's not running so scared that he feels he's got to already depart from the truth.''
 In his first direct comments on the advertisements with Sept. 11 images, Mr. Bush showed no sign of backing down. The White House has been embroiled all week in criticism from families of some victims of the attacks, as well from Mr. Kerry and his allies, that the commercials have crassly politicized a tragedy.
 ''First of all, I will continue to speak about the effects of 9/11 on our country and my presidency,'' Mr. Bush said when asked whether he would pull them.
 ''How this administration handled that day, as well as the war on terror, is worthy of discussion,'' he said. ''And I look forward to discussing that with the American people. And I look forward to the debate about who best to lead this country in the war on terror.''
 Mr. Bush made his comments with President Vicente Fox of Mexico at his side. Both Republicans and Democrats are eager to win the votes of the rapidly growing Hispanic population, and Mr. Bush used Mr. Fox's one-day visit here to signal his willingness to exempt many Mexicans who come to the United States for work or short visits from new requirements that foreigners entering the country be fingerprinted and photographed.
 Mr. Kerry attacked Mr. Bush over this, too, saying ''the president's holed up at the ranch in Crawford'' meeting with Mr. Fox ''to try to make up for the last three years when he should've met with President Fox, and he's trying to cut some kind of deal on immigration that he should've cut done a long time ago.''
 ''Looong trail of broken promises behind this president,'' Mr. Kerry continued, standing in what is called Maverick Square before a gigantic Lone Star flag. ''I think George Bush ought to leave the ranch and come out and talk to people who've lost their jobs. I think he ought to leave the ranch and come out and talk to people who don't have any health care -- and he won't have any trouble finding them in Texas, because there are 5.6 million of them here in this state.''
 The two campaigns also tangled over Iraq. Delivering his party's national radio address, Mr. Kerry attacked Mr. Bush as having failed to give the troops in Iraq all the equipment and armor they need.
 Mr. Bush's campaign responded that Mr. Kerry had voted against legislation to pay for many of the needs he criticized the administration for having failed to provide. Mr. Kerry's radio address, said Scott Stanzel, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, ''is the latest example of his astonishing ability to say one thing and do another'' -- a phrase each campaign is assiduously seeking to make stick to the other.
 A day after the government reported that job creation had all but stalled in February, Mr. Bush again defended his tax cuts and suggested that Mr. Kerry's plan for upper-income taxpayers would hurt job creation among small businesses, many of which pay income tax at the top personal rate.
 He also broadened his economic criticism of Mr. Kerry to include the growing demands by Democrats to rethink the nation's commitment to expanding trade.
 ''We must reject economic isolationism,'' Mr. Bush said. ''There is no future in walling America off from the rest of the world.''
 Mr. Kerry, making his first swing through Mr. Bush's home state, drew hundreds of angry Houston Democrats to a Saturday morning rally. Primary contests will be held Tuesday in Texas, Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi.
 The partisan crowd included a man who introduced himself as a fellow Massachusetts native. ''You're from Texas now, aren't you?'' Mr. Kerry asked him. ''I mean, George Bush can move here. So can you, right?''
 But the most interesting voices were those of the smattering of people who said they voted for Mr. Bush in 2000. Jose Silva, 26, a Houston special education teacher and an independent, said he had been turned off by the president's conservatism in office.
 ''I felt like he ran on a centrist platform, and I thought we needed more integrity in the White House,'' he said, explaining why he voted for Mr. Bush. ''But I don't feel like Bush has represented my interests. He's gone from center to pretty far right on most issues.''
 Mr. Silva was skeptical that Mr. Kerry could win Texas, but said he had ''a chance for a good showing,'' particularly if he ran with a Southerner and did away with his Northeastern liberal image.
 Michael Hatley, 28, a project manager for a local Web design company, said he had voted for Mr. Bush shortly after leaving the Army because he seemed ''stronger on national defense, and steadier, and he made Gore out to be a vacillator.''
 He said he was voting for Mr. Kerry this time because of Mr. Bush's handling of foreign policy. And he described a simple formula for Mr. Kerry to appeal to Texans.
 ''He's going to have to look real strong, not vacillate on issues,'' Mr. Hatley said. ''He's going to have to run the line between looking like a complainer and looking like a fighter. Texans are going to like strength.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vicente Fox of Mexico, left, with President Bush at a news briefing yesterday at Mr. Bush's ranch in Crawford, Tex. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); FINGERPRINTING (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); POPULATION GROWTH (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



143 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1; MUSIC

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: Hip-Hop's Crossover to The Adult Aisle

BYLINE: By MARTIN EDLUND. 
Martin Edlund is the pop music critic for the New York Sun.

 BODY:
FOR the boisterous Atlanta-based rappers Lil John and the East Side Boyz, Dec. 10 was the crowning night of what had already been a triumphant year. Their album ''Kings of Crunk'' had been certified platinum; their song ''Get Low'' was in heavy rotation on MTV and commercial radio. That evening, at the MGM Grand hotel in Las Vegas, they collected three Billboard Music Awards, including one for R&B/hip-hop group of the year.
 But the rappers didn't linger over their victory. Instead, they skipped the after-parties and rushed upstairs to their suite to film a graphic girl-on-girl sex scene for their new porn video, ''Lil Jon and the East Side Boyz American Sex Series,'' which was released last month through adult video stores and the Internet. ''It's not softcore porn,'' Lil Jon said by telephone from Atlanta. ''It's some real XXX.''
 Hip-hop has lately taken a turn toward the bourgeois, with prominent rappers renouncing violence, embracing philanthropy and donning pinstripe suits. But in deliberate defiance of this newfound respectability, some top acts have begun to pursue a less-than-wholesome sideline: commercial pornography. Pop music has always pushed sexual boundaries, of course, and rap has never shied away from gleefully smutty lyrics. But now, some stars are moving beyond raunchy rhetoric into actual pornographic matter, with graphic videos, explicit cable TV shows and hip-hop-themed girlie magazines. 
 50 Cent, whose ''Get Rich or Die Tryin' '' was the best-selling album of 2003, was at the Adult Entertainment Expo in Las Vegas in January to promote a deal with a company called Digital Sin. The result, to be released later this year, will be an ''interactive sex DVD,'' titled ''Groupie Luv,'' featuring 50 Cent and the rap group G-Unit that will allow the viewer to select partners, sexual positions, camera angles, even the dispositions of the women (''naughty'' or ''nice''). The newly launched music-meets-porn magazine Fish 'n' Grits gives rappers and and porn stars equal play in its pages. (The rapper Method Man shares the inaugural cover with the adult film star Solveig.) And in January, Playboy TV introduced a new hip-hop-themed series -- the first of several planned for this year -- called ''Buckwild.'' The show features mainstream stars like OutKast, Snoop Dogg, Nelly and Busta Rhymes cavorting with a frisky troupe of women called the Buckwild Girls, who seem to fall out of their clothes whenever a camera approaches.
 ''It was inevitable,'' said Ken (Buckwild) Francis, the creator, producer and host of the series. ''Hip-hop is a billion-dollar-a-year industry. If you don't do it, you're going to miss the boat.''
 The first mainstream rapper to do a feature-length commercial porn video was Snoop Dogg, whose ''Snoop Dogg's Doggystyle'' was distributed through Hustler Video in 2001. Set in his Los Angeles home, it featured sex scenes interspersed with lip-synched performances of 11 previously unreleased songs. (Like other rappers who dabble in porn, Snoop Dogg does not actually have sex on camera; instead, he plays master of ceremonies, presiding over the festivities.) In an industry where a video that sells 4,000 copies is considered a runaway hit, ''Snoop Dogg's Doggystyle'' sold somewhere ''in the hundreds of thousands,'' according to Larry Flynt, president of Larry Flynt Publications, which owns Hustler Video. It was named the top-selling tape of 2001 by the porn trade publication Adult Video News and was the first hardcore video ever listed on the Billboard music video sales chart. ''It's been very lucrative for Snoop and us,'' said Mr. Flynt. The sequel, ''Snoop Dogg's Hustlaz: Diary of a Pimp,'' was named top-selling tape of 2003.
 For the porn industry, hip-hop fans are an attractive new market. ''The fresh music brings people who are primarily fans of hip-hop to the adult genre,'' said Christian Mann, president of Video Team, the company which co-produced and distributed the Lil Jon video. ''We get a lot of customers that we might not otherwise get.''
 Camille Evans, a publisher and editor of Fish 'n' Grits, said: ''We've been using sex to sell music for years. Now we're just flipping it to have music sell sex.''
 The economics of porn make it a lucrative prospect for rappers. A video like Lil Jon's can be done ''on a very meager production budget of maybe $50,000,'' Mr. Mann said. Marquee rappers tend to undertake these projects as partners, rather than hired help, so if the video does well they get paid twice: once as talent (about $1 for every copy sold in the case of Lil Jon and the East Side Boyz), and then again as investors. (Lil Jon is a major stakeholder in Legacy DVD Works, which was co-producer of the video and will receive 50 percent of the profits from it.) The video retails for just over $20; if it sells 100,000 copies, that's a million-dollar profit, according to Mr. Mann. Sales of cable, Internet and foreign distribution rights can contribute 20 percent more, he said.
 Even if a video doesn't set sales records, it can add a helpful dash of danger and erotic adventurism to a rapper's image. One common scenario is to depict the rapper as a pimp presiding over a stable of beautiful women. The pimp is a stock figure in hip-hop iconography, an attractive rebel, full of street savvy and sexual charm. When it comes to hip-hop porn, he also solves a vexing casting issue: how to give rappers the appearance of sexual prowess without actually showing them having sex.
 In ''Snoop Dogg's Hustlaz: Diary of a Pimp,'' Snoop peacocks in outrageous outfits and seduces a prudish journalist into his employ. But when it comes time for sex, Snoop passes the honors off to someone else -- or, more often, to several other people. Ice-T's 2003 porn video, ''Pimpin' 101,'' takes a similar tack. As the host, Ice-T leads the viewer through a step-by-step mock lesson in how to be a pimp, including primers on various kinds of women. (Oddly, Ice-T is a regular on the highly rated NBC television series ''Law and Order: S.V.U.,'' on which he plays a detective who investigates sex crimes.)
 Another common conceit for these videos is a behind-the-scenes look at the ''real'' life of a rap superstar. Lil Jon's ''American Sex Series'' lets fans follow him to the strip club and into the hotel suite. ''Your fans want to hang out with you,'' said Lil Jon. ''When you watch this movie, if you're a guy, you feel like you're hanging out with us and wilding out with some girls.''
 According to Brian Leach, vice president in the urban music division of Lil Jon's label, TVT Records, the porn video appeals particularly to Lil Jon's core audience of ''hard, aggressive, crunk, edgy youth,'' as Mr. Leach puts it. These are fans who might feel alienated by Lil Jon's recent Top 40 success. (He produced and appears in four songs in the top 50 on last week's Billboard Hot 100 Singles Chart, including Usher's ''Yeah!,'' which has been No. 1 for two weeks running.) ''You have this audience that's wondering if he's still theirs,'' Mr. Leach said. ''These videos say, 'I still belong to you.' ''
 However, they may distance him from everyone else. In mainstream pop music, it's hard to know where titillation ends and smut begins (often, it's just a few inches of cloth that separate a Rolling Stone magazine photo from a Playboy-type one). As Janet Jackson's recent Super Bowl misstep proved, even mock sexuality can be difficult to reconcile with commercial standards and tastes. In the past, rappers like Luther Campbell of 2 Live Crew and Too Short have dabbled in porn. But these acts never appealed to a particularly broad audience. Today, some of the biggest names in the business are involved. Artists like Snoop Dogg, 50 Cent and Lil Jon are fixtures on MTV; in fact, the network is even developing a Lil Jon cartoon.
 Of course, many of these acts' fans are teenagers. Mr. Mann, of Video Team, recalls hearing Lil Jon's ''Get Low'' played over the loudspeakers during halftime at his 10-year-old son's football game. ''The little cheerleaders had actually made up cheers to the tune,'' he said. Mr. Mann and Lil Jon both insist that their video won't be marketed to underage consumers. But that attitude may be willfully naive. In an age when teenagers scour search engines and file-sharing networks, snapping up anything they can find by their favorite rap stars, the wall between adult and youth entertainment is irreparably porous.
 Mr. Leach of TVT Records, Lil Jon's label, recognizes that the majority of Lil Jon fans are ''kids who come from homes that are a little more conservative.'' But far from discouraging Lil Jon's porn venture, TVT is planning to put out its own racy Lil Jon DVD, titled ''Too Crunk for TV,'' which will feature nude girls in the style of the enormously successful ''Girls Gone Wild'' video series.
 Another issue for these rappers is whether their porn projects will jeopardize their even-more-lucrative corporate endorsement deals. Snoop Dogg has recently appeared in television commercials for Nokia and AOL, and in November, Reebok released an enormously successful 50 Cent sneaker called the G6. 
 In 2002, Pepsi pulled ads featuring the rapper Ludacris after Fox News's Bill O'Reilly chastised the company for promoting a ''thug rapper'' whose songs contain sexually explicit lyrics. Now Mr. O'Reilly has criticized Reebok for partnering with 50 Cent: ''They don't care what he says on his records, and they don't care that he's marketing porn and drugs and all that other stuff,'' Mr. O'Reilly said on a recent episode of his show ''The O'Reilly Factor.'' ''They're liking his selling shoes.''
 Since then, 50 Cent has quietly distanced himself from the porn project. The original press release announcing the deal characterized it as a partnership between Digital Sin and 50 Cent. A revised release, put out by 50 Cent's management after the ''O'Reilly Factor'' broadcast, billed it instead as a collaboration between Digital Sin and Lloyd Banks, one of 50 Cent's partners in the rap group G-Unit. 50 Cent's name appears only in the final sentence of the release, which states that he and G-Unit ''won't be engaged in any sexual behavior but may make general appearances.'' 
 For rappers who want to be involved in pornography, the decision may come down, in the end, to a simple matter of opportunity cost. ''Our core consumers are minors, so we're not driving it that way,'' said 50 Cent's manager, Chris Lighty. ''We're in the business of selling clothing and sneakers. We're going to have a $100 million business by the end of this year. This isn't something we're jeopardizing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The rapper Lil Jon at the Adult Entertainment Expo in Las Vegas in January. ''It's not softcore porn,'' he said of his new adult video. ''It's some real XXX.'' (Photo by Video Team)
 Snoop Dogg during the national tour for Playboy TV's ''Buckwild'' series. (Photo by Courtesy Playboy)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY (91%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (88%); POP & ROCK (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MGM GRAND HOTEL LLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

PERSON: 50 CENT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



144 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: What Do You Do Now, John Kerry?

BYLINE: By Stanley B. Greenberg. 
Stanley B. Greenberg, the author of ''The Two Americas: Our Current Political Deadlock and How to Break It,'' served as polling adviser to President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
While John Kerry was vanquishing his Democratic opponents and rising in the national polls, the Republican Party was arming for battle. The president's campaign broadcast its first television advertisements last week, and they depicted George Bush as a steady leader. Mr. Kerry and the Democrats, meanwhile, will be deciding in the next few weeks which issues to embrace in the coming campaign.
 Republicans have already begun fighting a culture war; Democrats have begun fighting a class war. One party is talking about gay marriage, the other about corporate greed. But Mr. Kerry should not settle for a campaign waged on such narrow terms. 
 In 2004, Americans are eager to be engaged in matters of greater significance both to the nation and to their everyday lives. This election will be decided by those voters who care about more than just this debate -- those who do not like either Rosie O'Donnell or Kenneth Lay. To break the current political impasse and appeal to these voters, Mr. Kerry should portray this election as a choice between different visions of America. His campaign will surely reflect Democrats' middle-class sensibilities, and be aligned with them, but Mr. Kerry should also take up the public's yearning for opportunity, community, loyalty and patriotism.
 But he must act soon. The contours of the Bush campaign are already beginning to take shape, and they are depressingly familiar. The president saw fit to mention the twin scourges of gay marriage and steroid abuse in his State of the Union address, and the Republican-controlled Congress last week scheduled a high-profile vote on gun laws in an effort to portray Mr. Kerry as outside the cultural mainstream.
 It is not an unwise strategy. Attacks on Mr. Kerry for his stands on gay marriage, crime and welfare raise ''serious doubts'' for almost 60 percent of voters, according to a recent national poll. The Republicans' goal is straightforward: to energize and unite their white evangelical and blue-collar male supporters and raise worries about moral decline and an intrusive government.
 Yet for all their cultural bravado, Republicans are watching with increasing nervousness the response of voters to job losses and corporate excesses. Mr. Kerry expressed his disdain for corporate special interests and John Edwards bemoaned the ''two Americas'' to real effect: 56 percent of voters now want to go in a ''significantly different direction'' on the economy; 64 percent say Mr. Bush is ''more for big business than the average person.'' The doubts about Mr. Bush are especially pronounced in the industrial and rural states, now the electoral battleground.
 Thus America is heading toward an election where voters will be asked to choose between protecting jobs or protecting the family. We have seen this movie before -- most recently in 2000, when Al Gore declared the election was about the ''people versus the powerful'' while George Bush pledged to ''restore dignity and honor to the White House.''
 Perhaps the ending this time would be happier for the Democrats, as anxieties about the economy and unemployment are rising. This month 29 percent of voters cited the economy and jobs as their top concern, whereas in October 2000 only 7 percent of voters cited the economy.
 But this is a dangerous gamble. Though Mr. Kerry is a Vietnam veteran and decorated war hero, he remains essentially undefined for the public. It's hard to know what coal miners in West Virginia or auto workers in Michigan will think of Mr. Kerry's values after eight months of Republican attacks.
 For now, however, only 40 percent of voters think the country is headed in the right direction. According to nearly all public polls, Mr. Kerry is the preferred choice for president, and that prospect may well keep Mr. Kerry from focusing on the larger choice before America. That would be a shame, because voters would respond to such a challenge.
 The choice is between an America inspired by John F. Kennedy and one shaped by Ronald Reagan. When the alternatives are framed this way, Americans choose the Kennedy vision by a striking 53 percent to 41 percent. It brings increased support for Democrats among voters from across the political spectrum -- in small towns and rural areas, in older blue-collar communities, among low-wage and unmarried women as well as young voters and women with a college degree.
 Rather than simply criticizing specific policies of the Bush administration, Mr. Kerry should emphasize the worldview it represents. Mr. Bush favors tax cuts for business and the wealthy as the best way to bring about prosperity. He heralds individualism as the key to a healthy community. In his tenure America has retreated at home before our shared problems, but advanced alone abroad. If Mr. Kerry challenges this worldview, Mr. Bush will be forced to defend it.
 And the public, far from yearning for a return to Reaganism, is looking for a return to community and country, to a time when every citizen mattered. This is not just John Edwards's vision of an America without class barriers, but a desire for a return to a time of rising opportunity, when people learned responsibility and a commitment to community and nation.
 After two decades of growing income inequality, people are desperate for policies that raise the middle class. After this period of corporate excess, people are yearning for loyalty and commitment to country. After 9/11, Americans were eager to work for the common good. President Bush squandered his opportunity to tap into this impulse. But it still exists.
 John F. Kennedy represents an apt legacy for these times. He believed that one task of government was to ensure that all shared in America's bounty. Yet he also reminded Americans that they had an obligation to serve their country and their community. John Kerry should reclaim this tradition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); STEROIDS (50%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



145 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: India Takes Economic Spotlight, and Critics Are Unkind

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: BOMBAY, March 2 

 BODY:
India has finally arrived on the global economic scene. Unfortunately, like a debutante suddenly told she is wearing the wrong dress, it is not exactly the triumph India imagined. 
 In recent weeks, the outsourcing of white-collar service jobs to places like this financial capital on the Arabian Sea has become the focus of the American presidential campaign, the brunt of jokes on late-night shows, the subject of angry Web sites, and the target of legislation in more than 20 states and Washington. 
 Long caricatured in many American minds as home only to snake charmers and poor people, India is now being caricatured as a nation of predatory brains set on stealing American jobs. 
 The strong reaction to the shifting of jobs is spawning frustration in India, a country the United States was cheering not so long ago as it began to open a largely socialist, closed economy and enter the global arena. It is also surfacing as a potential irritant in relations between the countries. Indians say they are doing exactly what the United States wanted, and bridle at the new criticism as a double standard. 
 ''The U.S. is propagating capitalism -- we don't really understand why they are so scared,'' said Ravi Shankar, 36, an employee of Tata Consultancy Services, India's largest technology services company. ''If you're going to talk about competition, you should have no fear -- may the best man win.''
 But now India's pride has become America's pain. Over the last decade, riding technology advances, India's engineers and English-speaking college graduates have been taking on more work -- from credit-card complaints to software programming to research for American companies half a world away. 
 The uproar over outsourcing shows no signs of abating, because outsourcing itself is only likely to grow. India's success has both contributed to and coincided with stagnating employment in the United States. Both countries face elections this year. As a result, an issue that would largely be confined to corporate America has become politicized and emotional. ''India has joined the ranks of other big job thieves -- Japan, China and Mexico,'' the Indian magazine Outlook wrote this week, citing a ''barely concealed racism'' in Internet debates. Senator John Kerry, the likely Democratic nominee for president, has called chief executives who shift work abroad ''Benedict Arnolds.'' 
 ''Whenever such issues are taken up in competitive politics, the economy suffers,'' said Arun Shourie, India's minister for disinvestment, communications and information technology. He has spent the last two years fighting to privatize India's bloated state-owned enterprises, facing fierce political opposition along the way. 
 Indeed, the furor in the United States is highlighting India's own ambivalence toward the economic reforms that began here in the early 1990's. The competitiveness of India's new industries stands in sharp contrast to the high tariffs and red tape that still shelter many other parts of the economy. 
 American officials have repeatedly expressed frustration at the relatively low level of American imports to India. While total exports from American companies to India grew to $4.1 billion in 2002 from $2.5 billion in 1990, the United States still has a trade deficit of about $9 billion with India. On a visit to New Delhi in February, United States Trade Representative Robert B. Zoellick cited India's high tariffs -- like a 38 percent applied agriculture tariff, which is three times as much as America's. ''We want to keep our markets open,'' he said, ''but to do so we need to be able to open markets abroad.'' 
 His comments were interpreted here as evidence that the Bush administration would seek to use the reaction toward India as a lever to pry open wider India's economy.
 Mr. Shourie said that when India finally opened its agriculture markets, it would affect ''millions of people'' -- far more than are being affected by India's success in information technology. ''If the United States feels we must understand their political compulsions,'' he asked, ''why is it that American politicians or trade negotiators sitting at the table would not understand our political difficulties?'' 
 He worries, he said, that the reaction in the United States will strengthen the opponents of India's own economic reforms. ''It gives a very strong handle to persons in India who oppose opening up,'' he said. 
 Indians say that the beneficiaries of outsourcing are far fewer than Americans realize. Well under a million people work in information technology services. Most of India's population of more than a billion, still largely rural, has never heard of outsourcing or benefited from it. Unemployment in India -- far higher than in the United States -- is at its highest level in decades, many economists say. Officially pegged at 7 percent, with more than 40 million registered job seekers last year, the real unemployment rate is probably three times that, economists say. 
 Vivek Paul, vice chairman of the Bangalore-based Wipro Technologies, calls it ''perceptual amplification.''
 ''If three million jobs have been lost in the U.S., and 100,000 jobs created in India, every one of those three million thinks, 'That's my job,' '' he said.
 The danger is that anger in the United States will affect relations with India that otherwise have only deepened in recent decades. There are nearly two million Indian-Americans in the United States today -- with the highest income of any ethnic group -- and India is the second largest country for legal migration to the United States, after Mexico. 
 The United States now has more foreign students from India -- more than 70,000 -- than from any other country, and the information technology industry itself seems to represent a sort of synergy, with many Indians working in Silicon Valley, and innovation flowing both ways.
 That spirit is showing strains. While Indian officials have decided that their best strategy is to let American corporations fight the political battle in the United States, they cannot resist the occasional rhetorical flare-up. ''Those who lecture about free trade,'' Mr. Shourie said, ''should practice it.''
 But not everyone here cheers India's new identity as what Babu P. Ramesh, writing in the Economic and Political Weekly, called ''one of the prominent electronic housekeepers to the world.'' Indians say they face the same forces churning the American job market. As the use of information technology increases here, so, too, will the labor displacement that America has experienced. And over time, many of the jobs that have come to India could move on. As new competition emerges from other countries, Mr. Paul of Wipro said, ''we'll have to swallow the same medicine of globalization.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Bombay, two Wipro employees took calls recently from Americans. Despite such service jobs, Indian unemployment is relatively high.
 The call center of Wipro Technologies in Bombay. The outsourcing of jobs to India has provoked an emotional reaction in the United States. (Photographs by Santosh Verma for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); PRIVATIZATION (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); RACE & RACISM (67%); POLITICS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); DIVESTITURES (65%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LTD (55%)

TICKER: TCS (NSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (89%) INDIAN OCEAN (74%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



146 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5; The Nation

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Profiling The Picky

 BODY:

A few weeks ago, it was fashionable to ignore the swing voter, as the parties rallied their bases. Now, polls show John Kerry, the all-but-certain Democratic nominee, in a dead heat with President Bush, and the undecided voter is suddenly popular again. Below, an early look at the fence riders.

THE UNCOMMITTED
About 29 percent of Americans say they remain undecided or, if they prefer a candidate, might still change their minds.

Swing voters
LEAN TOWARD BUSH: 13%
COMPLETELY UNDECIDED: 6%
LEAN TOWARD KERRY: 10%

COMMITTED TO BUSH: 33%
COMMITTED TO KERRY: 38%

WHO ARE THEY?
Polls show that women make up a greater part of the undecided, and nearly half of swing voters call themselves moderates.

SEX

MALE: 45%
FEMALE: 55%

AGE

65 AND OVER: 18%
29 AND UNDER: 18%
30-64: 64%

EDUCATION

LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL or NO ANSWER: 14%
HIGH SCHOOL GRAD: 23%

Attended College
SOME COLLEGE: 37%
COLLEGE GRAD: 26%

RACE/ETHNIC ORIGIN*

WHITE*: 75%
BLACK*: 11%
HISPANIC: 8%
OTHER or NO ANSWER: 6%

PARTY

DEMOCRATIC: 25%
REPUBLICAN: 27%
INDEPENDENT/OTHER: 48%

PERSUASION

LIBERAL: 14%
OTHER: 4%
CONSERVATIVE: 34%
MODERATE: 48%

AND WHAT'S ON THEIR MINDS?

The flagging economy remains a major concern among those still on the fence, although a majority still thinks the Iraq war was right. And on support for gay marriage? Most say ''I don't.''

THE ECONOMY . . .
How's it doing?

ONLY FAIR/POOR: 79%
EXCELLENT/GOOD: 20%
DON'T KNOW: (1%)

. . . IRAQ . . .
Right or wrong?

RIGHT DECISION: 61%
WRONG DECISION: 29%
DON'T KNOW: 10%

. . . AND OTHER PRESSING ISSUES
Gay marraige?

OPPOSE: 64%
FAVOR: 27%
DON'T KNOW: (9%)

* Non-Hispanic

(Source by The Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, based on two February surveys of 1,898 registered voters.)


GRAPHIC: Photos: Rosie O'Donnell, right, and her spouse, Kelli Carpenter.
 Swing voters have eight months to make up their fickle minds on a president. (Photo by Neyret Freres Companyarpenter.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (64%); IRAQ WAR (64%); MARRIAGE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



147 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1804 words

HEADLINE: In Qaddafi's Realm, Shadows of the Caesars

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER. 
PATRICK E. TYLER is chief of the London bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
FEW Americans have visited Libya since Ronald Reagan clashed with Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in the 1980's. Those were the days when American warplanes shot their way across the ''line of death'' in the Gulf of Sidra, when Libya was accused of responsibility for the Belle Disco bombing in Berlin and when Mr. Reagan unfurled his retribution with those ''you can run but you can't hide'' airstrikes on Tripoli and Benghazi.
 More American bombers have crossed this part of the palm-studded North African coastline than American tour operators, who were banned from doing so until last month under trade barriers imposed by the United States. But all changed after last December's dramatic reversal by Colonel Qaddafi, who vowed to rid the country of illicit weapons and begin reconciliation with the West.
 Now that all the centrifuges used to enrich uranium for Libya's secret nuclear bomb project have been safely stored in American warehouses, and the vats of mustard gas have been neutralized, President Bush has lifted restrictions on travel to Libya. 
 The great sucking sound that may soon be heard in the Mediterranean will be the influx of oil and other executives and American tourists returning to the most splendid display of Roman civilization that exists outside Italy.
 For at their peak, under the Roman Emperor Lucius Septimius Severus, who ruled the empire from 193 to 211 A.D., the three great cities of the Libyan coast, Leptis Magna, Oea and Sabratha, rivaled Rome itself in splendor, architecture and wealth. In fact, the emperor was a native of Leptis Magna. 
 What Americans are going to discover with amazement is just how much is left standing in Leptis Magna, 75 miles east of Tripoli and in Sabratha, 50 miles to the west of the capital. For what happened on this coast of golden sandstone after Rome collapsed and after Muslim conquerors swept over the region in the seventh century was that nature sealed Leptis Magna and Sabratha under a blanket of sand. 
 The cities lay there until the Italian conquest of 1911. During two periods of intense excavation, in the 1920's and 1950's, the broad outlines of both places and their stunning architectural relics emerged. 
 Mustafa Turjman has walked these streets for more than 20 years as a tour guide and historian at Leptis Magna and his eyes still light up as he strolls through Hadrian's Baths and along the colonnaded street to the Forum of Severus, which covers about three acres. Here was the shopping mall for a rich metropolis and later, a grand basilica next door. 
 ''It is still possible to imagine the life that existed here,'' he says, ''because the streets take you to the homes of merchants and from there to the temples, theaters and markets.''
 After a 90-minute trip by car from Tripoli, the approach to Leptis is through a stand of pine and eucalyptus trees off a parking lot. When you emerge from the trees, the Arch of Septimius rises magnificently over a landscape that is deceptively green because so much vegetation still mixes with the ruins. The Triumphal Arch, probably built for the emperor's visit in A.D. 203, stands there eerily at the head of a broad avenue called Cardo Maximus like a gateway to another era. The mammoth paving stones radiate the brute force of Roman power. 
 Visitors who walk down into the ruins discover a great hinterland of neighborhoods, with houses built of native sandstone. Residents walked on multicolored mosaic floors and drank from underground cisterns where rainwater was stored.
 In the city's baths, even the toilet was a forum. Toilet seats were cut into marble slabs and arranged in a common room without stalls. The room had its own subterranean water course providing sewerage. 
 ''In Leptis Magna, you do get a fine sense of what a great Roman city was like,'' says Graeme Barker, professor of archaeology at the University of Leicester in England. ''You can walk around the streets and the great public spaces.'' 
 At the grand Baths of Hadrian, citizens lolled in saunas heated by olive-wood fires and dipped into cold water and heated pools surrounded by marble Corinthian colonnades. 
 What you can't do here, Mr. Barker says, is see how 95 percent of the ordinary folk lived, because so much of the city remains unexcavated, beneath layers of sand and vegetation. With all that there is to see, ''only a small proportion of the total site is excavated,'' he says.
 The theater seated several thousand people for musical and dance productions, but a more robust fare drew the big crowds to the Circus for chariot races around a course three football fields long and one wide. The outlines are still visible today on the beach below the amphitheater at the east end of the city. Built out of the contours of the quarry that provided much of the building material for the city, it seated 16,000 people. There gladiators slashed at each other and wild animals were slaughtered. Lions and tigers were then released to prey upon criminals or other prisoners who were thrown onto the set for blood sport. 
 Mosaics discovered in the ruins of one Roman villa near here depict wild animal hunts on a stage decorated with trees and plants to resemble a tropical scene. They are now at the National Museum in Tripoli. 
 Like many other Mediterranean ports, Leptis was founded by Phoenician traders as a hub to gather the wheat and olive crops from fertile areas on the coast and in the interior. The port's contours are still visible under the promontory occupied by the ruins of the ancient lighthouse. 
 Then, the sea was full of ships. Today, Colonel Qaddafi forbids recreational sailing, something the current British ambassador, Anthony Layden, an avid sailor, neglected to check when he accepted a posting here. He now keeps his sloop moored in Malta. 
 The modern capital, Tripoli, occupies the site of Oea, one of the ''three cities,'' from which Tripoli derives its name. 
 Commerce and the voraciously exploitive economy of Rome fueled a lusty culture of acquisition. Down the centuries of war and conquest, these great cities were lucky to escape the kind of destruction that visited Carthage. Even Julius Caesar spared Leptis after he discovered in 46 B.C. that it was sheltering Cato the Younger, his enemy in the civil war that led to the fall of the Republic. (Cato committed suicide and Caesar levied a huge fine on Leptis.). 
 The chariot racecourse here was among the largest anywhere, and the beasts of Africa -- lions, leopards and elephants -- were paraded before enthusiastic crowds before the animals were slaughtered in games staged at the adjacent amphitheater. 
 On the January morning when I visited Leptis, there were no more than a half-dozen people on the streets of this ancient city, which was home to nearly 100,000 people at its peak. 
 ''The magic of Libya is that often these sites are totally deserted,'' says Paul Bennett, chairman of the Society for Libyan Studies in Britain. ''I can remember the first time I walked the streets of Leptis. I was wearing headphones and playing the 'Paris' symphonies and no one was there and it was just fabulous.'' 
 It is likely that even after Libya opens up, it will still be possible to duplicate this experience, many experts believe, because the tourism industry will take time to develop. At the moment, there is only one hotel in the country that meets European standards, the Corinthia, which is under Maltese management, situated on Tripoli's waterfront. Although the 20th century has seen the first mass excavations of these Roman cities, over all it has not been kind to Libya, an Italian colony from 1911 to 1943. When Italy entered its Fascist period under Mussolini, the Roman treasures of North Africa were dug up as icons of Italian imperialism. 
 ''The politics of the spade was very much operating in North Africa at that time,'' says David Mattingly, who teaches Roman archaeology at the University of Leicester. ''And it was partly an attempt to disenfranchise the Libyans from their own past and to make the Roman past of Libya an Italian preserve.'' 
 A railroad was laid into Leptis in the 1920's (its tracks are still visible) and thousands of workers spent years hauling hundreds of tons of sand and dirt off the ruins. 
 Indigenous rebellion was brutally suppressed, and ordinary Libyans were not allowed to walk the streets in central Tripoli where Italians lived in grand buildings. 
 ''The Libyans were treated horribly during the colonial period and the resentment still complicates Libya's relations with Italy today,'' one Western ambassador says. For that reason also, the amazing Roman ruins here are not the source of national pride that a visitor might expect. 
 But the prospect of a boom in tourism and resulting new wealth is likely to awaken Libya's population of 5.4 million to a part of their history largely ignored since Colonel Qaddafi in 1969 overthrew King Idris, the ineffectual monarch who was installed when the country became independent in 1951. 
 Prime Minister Shukri Ghanem, an economic reformer appointed by Colonel Qaddafi last June, said in January that tourism was a great national resource ''that has not yet been tapped.'' The first step, he added then would be the lifting of the travel ban to Libya. That signal would tell the world that Libya is open for investors to build the kind of infrastructure -- hotels, restaurants, roads and airports like those of Egypt, Tunisia and Morocco -- to better exploit their greatest long-term national resource: antiquities under a warm sun beside a crystalline sea.

Some signposts for visitors to Libya

What to See
 Leptis Magna is 75 miles east of Tripoli on the coastal highway. The site is open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. all year, and longer in the summer. Admission is $2.25, at 1.36 Libyan dinars to the dollar. A fee ranging from $6.80 to $13.60 is charged for carrying cameras or video equipment into the site. Museum admission is $1.50. 
 Sabratha is 50 miles west of Tripoli on the coastal highway. It is open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission charges are the same as for Leptis Magna. 
 Both sites are reachable by taxi or bus from Tripoli, and both have parking areas equipped with restrooms, coffee shops, souvenir stands and travel guides. There is a small museum on each site.
 Guides charge about $37.50 a day
 The best statuary and mosaics are in the National Museum on Green Square in downtown Tripoli. Travel guides are also available in the museum for walking tours in the old quarter of Tripoli. 

Where to Stay
 The best hotel in Tripoli is the Corinthia Bab Africa, at Souk al-Thulatha al-Gadim. Rooms there are $200 to $300 a night; telephone (218) 21 335 1990, fax (218) 21 335 1992. Details can be found on the Internet at www.corinthiahotels.com. 
 The Corinthia's front-office manager is Paul Pace, e-mail: ppace@corinthia.ly.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A frieze on the stage at the theater in Sabratha. The theater at Leptis Magna. Detail of circus games from mosaic at Leptis Magna. (Photo by Roger Wood/Corbis [theater and mosaic])
(Photo by Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 The theater at Leptis Magna, which seated several thousand people for musical and dance productions. (Photo by Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times)(pg. 9)Map of Libya highlighting Sabratha and Leptis Magna. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (87%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); TOUR OPERATORS (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); HISTORY (70%); ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); CENTRIFUGES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); RETAILERS (60%) Travel and Vacations; Archaeology and Anthropology; Roman Civilization; Travel Restrictions

PERSON: Patrick E Tyler

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); GERMANY (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); ITALY (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Libya; Leptis Magna (Libya); Sabratha (Libya)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



148 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2004 BMW X3

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: BMW Calculus: Can X3 Equal X5?

BYLINE: By KEITH MARTIN

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
THE BMW X3 seems, at a glance, like the right car at the right time at the right price. Amid rising criticism of gas-swilling S.U.V.'s, the reasonably small, fairly efficient X3 -- starting at $30,995 -- should be an attractive alternative.
 BMW redefined the utility market four years ago with its X5, a tall wagon that combined a high-stance look with the handling prowess of a sport sedan and limited, though generally adequate, off-road performance.
 With the X3, BMW has tried to take a mix of the X5's elements, scale down the package slightly and bring the result into a less costly segment of the market. On paper, this appears to be a can't-miss formula. 
 But on the road, there are issues.
 First, there's the price. BMW's marketing machine gets a lot of mileage from offering a Bimmer utility for less than $31,000. But my test model, with a 3-liter engine, 6-speed manual gearbox, sport package and premium equipment like panoramic sunroof and xenon headamps, came in at $43,920. With an automatic transmission and navigation system, the price nudges $47,000. The larger X5 starts around $41,000.
 Then there's the ride. When treated like a sports car, the X3 excels. The in-line 6 (225 horsepower, 214 pounds-feet of torque) revs eagerly, as it does in the 330i automobile. BMW says the X3 with this engine reaches 60 m.p.h. in 7.6 seconds (with a manual gearbox). The base engine is also a 6, displacing 2.5 liters and making 184 horsepower.
 My test route encompassed city streets, freeways, challenging country lanes and potholed lumber roads through the Mount Hood National Forest in Oregon.
 On smooth pavement, the X3 performed brilliantly. Despite sitting high, the little truck hugs the road, and can be tossed through corners with relative abandon. The first four gears are perfectly spaced for quick shifting, easily keeping the engine in a range of 3,500 to 6,000 r.p.m., where it turns out the most power. Fifth and sixth gears are really highway-only overdrives.
 This performance has a cost: the ride is rock hard, and the ultra-low-profile tires (45R in front, 50R at the rear) contribute to the harshness. Most S.U.V.'s have a supple suspension designed to accommodate less than perfect road surfaces, but when a rough surface pummels the X3, it fights back. With the stiff, unyielding suspension, striking a pothole at 30 m.p.h. caused the wheels and tires to rebound so severely that the BMW lost its composure and became hard to control. 
 Behavior like this raises a question: Is the X3 an all-wheel-drive 3 Series wagon with more ground clearance (in which case it measures up fairly well), or is it the little brother of the X5, a vehicle that tames both challenging surfaces and smooth highways? If that's the case, it falls short.
 The X3 has the muscular look that many recent BMW's seem to be drifting away from. My test model was handsome in dark blue, with leather seats in lighter blue. Yet the interior seemed rather spartan, acceptable perhaps in a $31,000 truck but short of what one expects for $44,000. 
 The attractively trimmed seats are more than firm; they felt a bit like a wooden church pew. Metallic inserts on the console and door pulls have an odd reptilian pattern, which reminded me of budget cowboy boots done in cheap snakeskin. 
 The steering wheel has a lot of buttons and switches, as many have these days, as well as snake-swallowing-a-mouse lumps at 10 and 2 o'clock for a better grip.
 Set into the roof, too close to eye level, is a light that indicates when the passenger air bag is off. Lighting up whenever the right front seat is vacant, it is terribly annoying. Nor does it dim when the headlamps are on, as you might expect, or when the interior lighting is dialed down.
 On the other hand, there is no warning light to let you know when the rear hatch is ajar.
 The air-conditioner seemed to fight with itself, constantly blowing cold air from the center dash outlets. There are the ubiquitous, prominent ashtray and cigarette lighter, as found in most German cars.
 As big-drinking Americans, we judge a vehicle by its cup holders, and the X3 fails the test. The single console-mounted holder has four spring-loaded pods extending from it. If you push your paper coffee cup down hard enough to get past the springs, the cup may collapse. If your cup is 16 ounces or larger, you'd better hang onto it, because the holder won't. Once, a full cup of iced tea launched itself onto my wife's legs, much to her displeasure, when I applied the brakes.
 In the backseat, passengers have two cup holders in the folding center armrest. If you have three passengers in the back, they'll have to keep their sodas between their knees.
 Headroom and legroom are also issues in the back; the rear seat is a bit snug for those over 5-foot-8 or so. But there is ample luggage space behind the seats -- more, BMW says, than in the X5. The rear seat, split in a 60-40 proportion, folds down flat. 
 The test truck had a large panoramic sunroof, which, in daytime flooded the interior with light and made the cabin look spacious. 
 The rear doors are light, and shut with a tinny sound. In this and other ways, the X3 doesn't have the solid feel that you may expect of a BMW.
 I got respectable gas mileage, nearly 20 m.p.g. over all. The X3 3.0 has a government economy rating of 16 m.p.g. in town, 23 on the highway.
 BMW's new xDrive system can shift all the torque to either axle in less than a tenth of a second, and is linked with the electronic traction and stability controls to improve overall handling. Indeed, the X3 proved easy to control on the slippery surfaces I encountered.
 But I did not try to challenge the system with deep snow or mud; the X3, like the X5, does not have a low range for hard-core off-roading. While the X5 has been criticized by serious off-roaders for this omission, few S.U.V. owners use low range anyway.) 
 But that's just as well. The X3 likes to be driven like a sports car -- the driver revving to redline in each gear, mashing the brakes coming into turns and smashing the throttle when exiting. The driveline is magnificent, its various components -- from the engine to the rear differential -- acting cohesively as a single, vibration-free unit. The engine makes a pleasant, albeit subdued, BMW sound. 
 BMW expects to sell more than 40,000 X3's, perhaps most to those who want the dominant seating position of an S.U.V. but don't want to give up sporting performance. The solutions to the vehicle's shortcomings are simple: stick to mirror-smooth roads, bring along a pillow to sit on and put a piece of black tape over the air bag warning light.

INSIDE TRACK: A sports car trapped in a sport ute body.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Inside the X5, a pop-up screen for the optional navigation system. (pg. 4)
 (pg. 1)Chart: ''All in the Family: Comparing S.U.V.'s (and a Wagon)'' lists features and specifications for selected S.U.V.'s and Wagons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TIRES (78%); SEDANS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (76%); MOUNTAINS (67%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motoren Werke Ag

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Keith Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%) OREGON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



149 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; Investing

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: The Bulls Are Back. The Brokers Are Wary.

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
WHEN Don Logvin met with his financial planner in October, he brought along some investment charts that he had created on his home computer. They showed that his stock funds were up 24 percent for the year, while his bond funds, highlighted in red, had returned only about 4 percent. 
 Based on those numbers, Mr. Logvin told his adviser to shift the bond holdings to stocks. ''When something isn't performing the way it should, we discuss how to get out of it and get into something more profitable,'' said Mr. Logvin, 71, a former retail sales executive in New York who retired to Boynton Beach, Fla. 
 Because stocks have risen so much over the last year, Mr. Logvin's financial planner has urged him to be cautious about buying even more of them. Still, since October, Mr. Logvin has increased the stock portion of his portfolio to 60 percent from 40 percent -- making it more aggressive than is often advised for those near or in retirement. 
 In light of the markets' run-up in the last year, many financial advisers say their clients have become increasingly bullish, perhaps even excessively so. A net $40.8 billion flowed into equity mutual funds in January, the third highest monthly total since 1992, according to AMG Data. 
 But many advisers say that while they try to rein in their clients' enthusiasm for stocks, alternatives can be hard to recommend, because so many asset classes are also richly valued. Bond prices, for example, will fall if interest rates rise, as some economists predict. And real estate, commodities and gold have all made hefty gains in the last year.
 Some advisers say few of their clients are following their recommendations to lighten their stock load. Kimberly Sterling, a financial planner in Orlando, Fla., estimates that only about 5 percent of her clients have reduced their stock holdings as she has suggested, and that these tend to be the wealthiest investors. ''A few of our clients are so wealthy that they don't need the money to live on,'' Ms. Sterling said, so it is easier for them to take profits and accept that their portfolios may have lower returns in coming months. 
 She added that the middle-class retirees she advises were generally staying in stocks. ''They've learned that everything they have is dependent on the stock market,'' she said, ''and it's scary.'' As employees, they received steady paychecks; now that they depend on the stock market, they have seen how volatile it can be. 
 People with fresh cash to invest also face a quandary. Irwin Neulight, 64, who owns a chemical import business in Santa Fe, N.M., said he had some new cash to invest and intended to put it into stocks, even though his financial adviser had been trying to hold him back. 
 After he invests the money, he said, his portfolio will be two-thirds in stocks and one-third in bonds -- with nothing in cash. ''Money markets and C.D.'s are paying practically nothing, 1 to 2 percent,'' Mr. Neulight said. ''That's not a viable option.'' 
 Some Wall Street professionals, however, would caution him to go more slowly. ''Some people still have a lot of cash,'' said Stuart A. Schweitzer, global markets strategist at J.P. Morgan Fleming. ''At today's prices, I wouldn't judge this to be an especially good time to put that cash to work.''
 Mr. Schweitzer said he expected the market to rise 10 percent in 2004. As of Friday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 4 percent, ''so we're partly there,'' he said. ''But it wouldn't surprise me if we had a small correction first.''
 He recommended investing gradually in stocks over the next 12 months.
 Renewed enthusiasm for stocks hardly surprises Hersh M. Shefrin, a finance professor at Santa Clara University in California who specializes in the psychology of investing. He says many investors are subject to what he called ''recency bias'': their thoughts are dominated by what has happened most recently.
 Just as many people who lived through the Depression mistrusted the bull market of the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Shefrin said, investors who profited in the late 1990's bull market tend to expect that era to return. ''Many investors haven't forgotten the euphoria of 1995 to 2000,'' he said, ''and they're looking for evidence that we're heading back in that direction.'' 
 Yet there are indications that investors' confidence may not be as unwavering as it was four years ago. One remarkable feature of the bear market was that many individual investors hung onto stocks, even as prices started to slide. But now, some investors say they would be more apt to sell. 
 ''There are some signs that we're in another bubble,'' said Richard Kennedy, 68, a former corporate lawyer who runs an arbitration service from his apartment in Manhattan. ''If I saw a run-up like we had in 1999 and 2000, I wouldn't feel bad about going to 25 percent to 50 percent in cash.'' He now has about 5 percent of his portfolio in cash.
 Other investors say they would not hesitate to jump out of stocks in a downturn. Mr. Neulight's portfolio has just recovered to what it was four years ago, he said, adding, ''I lost that time, in terms of a normal growth rate.'' He said that he missed an opportunity to sell in 2000. ''If I thought we were in another balloon situation, I would be more quick to get out,'' he said.
 Many investors expect the market to go back to its peaks of early 2000. Although the Dow Jones industrial average, now at 10,595.55, is not far from its peak of 11,722.98, reached in January 2000, the Nasdaq, now at 2,047.63, is still less than halfway to its peak of 5,048.62, reached in March 2000.
 Professor Shefrin calls this anchoring to a reference point. Rather than questioning whether stocks were reasonably valued in early 2000, he said, ''they imagine that the market is on the end of a bungee cord and will bounce back to its previous high.''
 He said he thought that the recent rally, even as it propelled stock valuations further from historical norms, had made some individual investors overconfident. From 1935 through 2003, the price-to-earnings ratio of the S.&P. 500 averaged 15.5, according to Standard & Poor's. The average P/E was 23.6 on Friday.
 ''We've gotten used to thinking of a P/E over 20 as normal because that's recent,'' Professor Shefrin said. But after peaking at 26 before the 1929 stock market crash, ''it only crossed back over 20 in a persistent way in the mid-1990's.''
 ''Before that,'' he added, ''it was a very rare event.'' 
 Another hallmark of the recent rally is outsized gains in riskier stocks. Morningstar Inc. rates the financial health of roughly 6,000 American companies on a scale from A to F. In 2003, D-rated and F-rated companies had more than double the returns of A-rated ones, on average.
 Indeed, the gravitation toward the riskiest securities crosses all asset classes, said Richard Bernstein, chief United States strategist at Merrill Lynch. ''The market is paying Bentley prices for Volkswagen assets,'' he said. 
 High-yield bonds are more overvalued than they have been in 20 years, according to Merrill Lynch. Among commodities, some of the biggest gains have been in gold, which attracts more speculation than base metals, Mr. Bernstein said. And in foreign markets, he said, money has flowed to the riskiest countries. 
 ''People are plowing money into emerging-market debt and equity funds, and ignoring the fact that they could get 4 percent dividends on a U.S. food company,'' Mr. Bernstein said. Investors often place too much emphasis on capital appreciation, he said, and too little on income.
 HE said he thought it was time for investors to shift toward blue chips, and he recommended a portfolio weighting of 45 percent equities, 45 percent bonds and 10 percent cash. That would appear to be more conservative than most American investors' current stance, even among retirees. 
 Some older Americans are concerned about the prospect of renewed inflation, which can be a scourge to those on fixed incomes. Hard assets like real estate and commodities often perform well in periods of inflation, while financial assets like stocks and bonds usually rise in periods of economic stability, said Tony Sagami, a money manager in Austin, Tex., who handles accounts of at least $250,000.
 ''There are some things that just don't happen in nature,'' Mr. Sagami said. ''Hard assets and financial assets going up at the same time, that's just not natural. Therefore, one of the two camps is blind.''
 He said he thought the Federal Reserve's policy of holding down interest rates would eventually prompt inflation of 8 to 12 percent. But he says he sees evidence of a real estate bubble, suggesting that real estate will not be a good hedge against inflation this time.
 Instead, he is betting on gold, which has risen 13 percent in the last 12 months, to $401.25 an ounce. But he said it could hit $500 to $550 over the next year or two.
 Until the stock market has a correction, he recommends that conservative investors hold ''a wheelbarrow of cash, a bucket of TIPS'' -- referring to Treasury inflation-protected securities -- ''and a handful of gold.'' That would mean roughly 60 percent cash, 30 percent TIPS and 10 percent gold. 
 To be sure, Mr. Sagami is more cautious than most money managers. Some of his clients do not want to sit on cash and have taken their money elsewhere to invest in stocks, he said. ''My clients tend to be nervous Nellies, so they are the last holdouts,'' he said.
 Capital preservation does not seem a high priority for many Americans, even those in or near retirement, some advisers say. In Sunrise, Fla., Barry G. Katz, a financial planner, described his clientele, by and large, as ''little old widows,'' a designation once practically synonymous with conservative investors. 
 Asked whether any of his clients were nervous about current stock market valuations, however, Mr. Katz paused several seconds, then said: ''No, I don't think anyone is nervous. Some clients were nervous last spring and summer. But in the last quarter, they became less nervous. But I, as their adviser, became more nervous.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Boynton Beach, Fla., Don Logvin, 71, has added to the stock portion of his portfolio. (Photo by Gary Truman for The New York Times)
 In Manhattan, Richard Kennedy, 68, sees signs of a bubble and is prepared to convert a piece of his portfolio to cash. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)Chart: ''Prices in Perspective''Although the price-to-earnings ratio of stocks has fallen from its peak in 2000, it is still higher than it has been for most of the last 65 years.Graph tracks price-to-earnings ratio of Standard & Poor's 500-stock index from 1930-s through the 2000's.Trailing 4 quarters, through Friday(Source by Standard & Poor's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); RETAIL SALES (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CHEMICALS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%) Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



150 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; Investing

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: China's Web Portals Open a Door to Risk

BYLINE: By YILU ZHAO

 BODY:
SHARES of three Chinese Internet portals have been among the highest fliers on the Nasdaq market recently, tripling in value over the last 12 months. 
 But some financial analysts warn that the Chinese stocks are likely to fall sharply, much as American Internet stocks did in 2000. 
 ''The bubble is going to burst,'' said Andy Xie, a Morgan Stanley economist based in Hong Kong. ''It's going to be bad.''
 For the moment, though, investors celebrating China's Internet revolution have drowned out warnings like Mr. Xie's. The number of Internet users in China, growing at double-digit percentage rates annually, stands at 80 million, according to IDC Asia, a market research company. In January alone, the stock of the SINA Corporation, which runs one of the portals, Sina.com, gained roughly a third in value. 
 Providing online matchmaking services and news updates, Sina.com and the two others -- Sohu.com and NetEase.com -- dominate the Chinese portal world. Each made its Nasdaq debut in 2000. 
 The three companies chose Nasdaq over the Hong Kong or Shanghai stock exchanges for Nasdaq's ability to draw larger pools of financing, the companies say. 
 It is not uncommon for Chinese companies to seek listings abroad to gain access to foreign money. Because the disclosure requirements of many Western stock markets are much more stringent than those of the Chinese markets, an overseas listing also lends the companies credibility.
 ''The Nasdaq market is well regulated and efficiently run, which provides our investors with confidence in investing in SINA,'' said Fu Chen, its manager of investor relations. 
 In recent months, the stocks of all three portals have benefited from the throngs of investors eager to join the bandwagon of a surging Chinese economy.
 ''You know that China's market is doing very well,'' said Martin Yokosawa, a fund manager at Oberweis Securities, based in North Aurora, Ill., which has bought the stocks of all three portals. ''You want to buy into that market. There is a lot of excitement but not a lot of choices when it comes to stocks.''
 Many state-owned Chinese companies have hemorrhaged money for years, and investors tend to be cautious about them. The three portals, on the other hand, are entirely in private hands. While that has attracted investors, some may be unaware of the riskiness of the stocks.
 ''There is a certain exuberance'' about the Chinese Internet stocks, said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs (International). ''It's like the gold rush in the middle part of the 19th century in California.''
 Founded in the late 1990's, the three Internet companies embraced e-commerce, online advertising and other revenue models but failed to turn a profit until 2002, when they began to provide Internet content, for a fee, to users of China's nearly 200 million cellphones. On their phones, cellular subscribers can receive sports news, jokes or advice on their sex lives -- and can even search for dates -- all thanks to the portals. Each variety of service typically costs $3 a month, and each download costs an additional 3 cents, on average. 
 The Short Message Service, or S.M.S., technology used to send messages to Chinese phones is more than a decade old and is viewed as outdated in much of the world. But it has exploded in China. In 2003, at least 45 percent of the revenue of each portal came from wireless phone service.
 ''I tell my friends in the U.S. and they don't understand what this S.M.S. thing is,'' said Hurst Lin, the chief financial officer of SINA in Shanghai, who was born in Brooklyn. ''But that's from a U.S.-centric point of view. Here in China, people don't live by their PC's. They live by their cellphones.'' 
 In Chinese cities, it is common to find people staring at cellphones on street corners. According to China Mobile Communications and China Unicom, the two state-owned telecommunications companies that monopolize the wireless market, 220 billion text and image messages were received by cellphones in 2003, roughly 10 percent of them originating from Internet portals. The telecommunications companies add fees to users' bills for the Internet-generated content and keep roughly 15 percent of that money. The rest goes to the portals.
 There are some differences in the portals' approach. On the Internet, NetEase.com draws a large teenage audience with its abundant advice about dating. Sina.com attracts older visitors with frequent news updates, and Sohu.com appears to occupy a niche somewhere between. 
 But each is vulnerable to the state monopoly over the wireless phone industry, many analysts said. If China Mobile or China Unicom demands a larger share of wireless revenue, the portals' profit could slide.
 ''The phone companies see that the portals are getting very high share prices,'' said Peter Lovelock, the director of MFC Insight, a consulting company based in Beijing that has worked extensively with the telecommunications companies. ''They are jealous. They feel they should be getting the spotlight and should be the beneficiaries of this S.M.S. boom.''
 Both China Unicom and China Mobile, in the form of a subsidiary, China Mobile (Hong Kong), are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The performance of their stocks has been less impressive than that of the portals, but it has still been formidable. Over the last 12 months, China Mobile has returned more than 70 percent, while China Unicom has doubled. Neither company would comment for this article.
 The portals' dependence on the phone companies became obvious in August, when China Mobile decided to temporarily withhold payments to the portals, demanding that they stop sending raunchy jokes and images through its network. The impact was most apparent for Sohu.com, where third-quarter earnings plummeted to $2.7 million from the $7.5 million in the second quarter. Revenues rebounded in the fourth quarter, to $11.6 million.
 ALL three Internet companies say that they are trying to diversify their revenue sources. NetEase.com has already tapped into the market for online games, selling prepaid game cards, which permit access to its service. In the third quarter of 2003, it received 38 percent of its revenue from games. 
 ''We are the only portal to have developed our own games,'' said Ted Sun, the acting chief executive of NetEase.com. ''The revenue from gaming is growing very fast.''
 Competition in this area, however, is fierce. Shanda.com.cn, a Web site based in Shanghai that is devoted exclusively to games, is widely viewed as the leader in that category and is expected to go public on Nasdaq this year.
 Arjun Divecha, the manager of the GMO Emerging Markets fund, based in San Francisco, has avoided the three portals in his stock portfolio. ''There is a fair amount of speculation'' in the portal stocks, he said in a telephone interview. ''The rest of the Chinese market is not as speculative.''
 Are the Chinese portals too expensive? Opinions vary. 
 ''These companies are scoring double-digit revenue growth quarter over quarter,'' said Peter Conley, a managing director at MDB Capital, an equity research company based in Los Angeles. ''That's the holy grail for investors.'' MDB, for a fee, introduced managers of Sina.com to institutional investors in Boston, including Fidelity Investments.
 Today, Fidelity, with more than three million SINA shares, is one of its largest institutional shareholders, according to documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Fidelity declined to comment on its holdings.
 Other analysts are far less sure of the companies' worth, and some say they could tumble late this year or in 2005. They point out that company insiders at Sohu.com have been selling the stock. Charles Zhang, the founder and chief executive of Sohu.com, for instance, sold 1.2 million shares in August, netting more than $42 million. Responding to suggestions that Sohu.com shares might be overvalued, Caroline Straathof, the company's director of investor relations and communications, said in an e-mail message, "I speak to investors all the time, and many of them consider us undervalued."
 BASED on their price-to-earnings ratios, which are commonly used as a measure of value, the three portal stocks are richly priced. Last week, the ratios of the companies were 60 for SINA, 43 for Sohu.com and 48 for NetEase.com. By contrast, Yahoo's P/E ratio was even higher, at 120 and eBay's was 88. The average ratio in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was less than 24.
 It is quite one thing for Yahoo or eBay, which have survived an Internet boom-and-bust cycle, to have a high P/E ratio and another for the Chinese Internet portals, said Mark Sellers, who has advised against investing in the Chinese portals as an equity strategist at Morningstar Inc. 
 ''They are so expensive, and it's hard to tell whether they will be around in 10 or 15 years,'' Mr. Sellers said. ''For every one of them that's going to be the next Yahoo or eBay, 10 will crash.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about investing in Chinese Internet portals misstated the title of Hurst Lin, an executive at the SINA Corporation, which runs the portal Sina.com. He is chief operating officer, not chief financial officer.
 The article also misstated the role of MDB Capital, an equity research company, in introducing Sina.com managers to investors in Boston. While MDB Capital provided that service, it did not receive a fee for it. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Zhang, founder of Sohu.com, a Chinese Internet portal, on his way to climb Mount Everest last April. (Photo by Zhangqin/Imaginechina)Chart: ''Another Bubble?''Three Chinese Internet portal companies whose shares trade on Nasdaq have soared in value since the end of 2002. By comparison, the Nasdaq itself appears almost flat.Graph tracks share prices of NetEase.com, Sohu.com, and SINA on Nasdaq since March 2002.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEB SITES & PORTALS (93%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); BONDS (70%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); DATING SERVICES (53%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Computers and the Internet; Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: SINA CORP (94%); SOHU.COM INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (59%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: SINA (NASDAQ) (94%); SOHU (NASDAQ) (90%); GS (NYSE) (59%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: Yilu Zhao

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (74%); MOUNT EVEREST (74%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



151 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4; Commercial Property/Manhattan Offices

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Small Spaces Make Up Growing Share of Leases

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
WHEN W. Stephen Keller came to New York in 2000, he established a temporary outpost for the Stonehenge Capital Corporation, a Baton Rouge-based private investment fund, and soon went looking for a more permanent location.
 In 2002, he signed a lease for 3,200 square feet of space on the 20th floor of Carnegie Hall Tower, a slender 60-story-high building on 57th Street between the Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue.
 Today, at a time when many large space tenants are reluctant to make commitments because of the uncertain economic outlook, small spaces are being leased to firms, like Mr. Keller's, that feel they need a presence in New York or are seeking to move from less convenient locations or older space.
 According to a survey by Newmark & Company Real Estate, a brokerage and management company, the percentage of lease signings for spaces of less than 5,000 square feet has been rising in the past few years -- a time of sluggish demand in the overall office market. Leases for less than 5,000 square feet, which accounted for 39 percent of total transactions in 2001, rose to 52 percent last year. If the calculation is based on spaces under 10,000 square feet, the total increases to 76 percent from 59 percent over the same period of time. 
 Although it is the big deals, those covering multiple floors and hundreds of thousands of square feet, that grab the industry's attention, it is the smaller leases that are its real lifeblood. According to Newmark, 78 percent of the office space users in Manhattan require less than 2,250 square feet. Only 9.2 percent of businesses occupy more than 12,000 square feet, the report added.
 The demand for small spaces is at least partly a result of layoffs that have occurred in the financial industry, according to William G. Cohen, an executive vice president of Newmark and the principal author of the report. ''Many former senior managers have reconstructed their careers by starting their own funds or boutique businesses,'' he said, which typically set up shop in well-located but modestly sized space.
 Law firms, he added, are typically busier in economic downturns and have been involved in many smaller deals. And companies in many industries have been unwilling to commit long term to more space than they need at the moment and have opted for small amounts of expansion space on short-term leases or subleases.
 Mr. Keller said finding a permanent location had been more difficult than he expected, even with much vacant space available. ''We were looking for 3,000 to 4,000 square feet,'' he said. ''Most of that kind of space is on the East Side, which is not convenient to our people, who either live on the West Side or commute to Penn Station.'' 
 On the West Side, much of the available space was in the Times Square area, which he termed undesirable for his business. He said the layout on the 20th floor of Carnegie Hall Tower was so efficient that 3,200 square feet comfortably houses offices for six professionals and additional space for support staff. ''Elsewhere, we probably would have had to rent 4,000 square feet and had a lot of dead space,'' he said.
 Brokers said rents in the building range from the low $40's a square foot for lower floors to as much as $80 a square foot for the higher floors, which have a view of Central Park. At that the rent is off somewhat from the $89 a square foot that Bill Clinton initially agreed to pay for a post-presidential office on the 56th floor. After criticism of the cost, Mr. Clinton took much less expensive space in a building on 125th Street.
 One reason the interior space was efficiently designed for Mr. Keller's purposes is that it had been prebuilt by the building's owner, the Rockrose Development Corporation, to take best advantage of the approximately 10,000-square-foot floors. In prebuilt space, all the walls, doors, carpets, lighting and utilities are in place, meaning all tenants have to do is move in their furniture.
 This is in contrast to the typical practice, in which vacated office space is demolished back to the basic structure of the building. Prospective tenants typically have to figure out to use the raw space -- or pay someone to do it for them -- and then negotiate with the landlord about how the construction costs will be shared and how much free rent there will be while the work is under way.
 Prebuilding is speculative construction because the landlord must absorb the cost -- typically $40 to $60 a square foot, according to brokers -- before there is a signed lease. But prebuilt spaces can be spruced up with paint and new carpeting and re-leased at minimum expense, brokers say.
 Prebuilt space is attractive to small users, because they are typically small businesses with little time or inclination for the detail of design and construction, said David L. Hoffman Jr., an executive managing director of Colliers ABR, a brokerage and services company.
 ''It's a psychological thing,'' he said. ''The small tenant has no time, and it's the c.e.o. who is out looking. Space that is already constructed is appealing, because they know how it is going to look.''
 PREBUILT space can be occupied almost immediately after signing the lease, and it simplifies lease negotiations, Mr. Hoffman said. ''Most small tenants are fearful of big, bad landlords and they have a point,'' he said. ''Landlords in New York are well experienced at maximizing the value of their assets at the expense of tenants.'' Prebuilding eliminates some points of contention, he said.
 Prebuilding also removes another obstacle, the short-term outlook of tenants versus the long-term expectations of landlords, Mr. Hoffman said. ''Many of these guys have dreams of grandeur; they expect to be 50 percent bigger in a few years and don't want to sign long-term leases,'' he said.
 Indeed, if a 3,000-square-foot tenant gets a new account, he often needs to expand by 50 percent to house the people handling the new work, said Matthew T. Leon, a managing director of Newmark. ''The 10,000-square-foot tenant does not,'' he added.
 But if a landlord invests $50 or more a square foot on a tenant's build-out, he expects to amortize that cost over a 10-year lease. Prebuilt space -- because it is not specific to a particular tenants -- can easily be reused, Mr. Hoffman said. ''I have dealt with second and third generation prebuilds, and they spruce up well,'' he said.
 Because of the varying needs of small tenants, Mr. Leon said, spaces on prebuilt floors are designed so the corridors of spaces line up, so if a tenant needs to grow, removing a wall or two adds space. Since most of the walls in modern office buildings are not load bearing, making adjustments is relatively simple.
 Brokers say that because there are only a few ways to lay out offices in spaces under 5,000 square feet, they almost always come in standard sizes. ''They are the equivalent of studio, one-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments,'' Mr. Cohen said.
 The layout usually includes executive offices with windows along the outside walls, with space for clerical and support workers in the interior. A reception area is just inside the front door and a conference room is adjacent to it. Pantries with a refrigerator and a microwave are popular amenities.
 Little things count big in small spaces, Mr. Hoffman said. ''Tenants get juiced at the sight of a pantry and a sink,'' he said. ''Investing $1,000 a unit to add a microwave and a refrigerator is a lot better than having space stand empty.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Prebuilt space available for lease on the 37th floor of Carnegie Hall Tower on 57th Street. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); WRITERS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); LAYOFFS (68%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%); BGC PARTNERS INC (56%)

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



152 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Businesses Near Courthouse Find Their Lifeblood in It

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
The criminal courthouse in Manhattan is surely among the most intriguing courts in the country, having spawned the entire ''Law and Order'' series among other television dramas and comedies. It also ranks as one of the biggest and busiest, shaping a staggering array of life in its immediate vicinity in one way or another.
 About 1,000 people work in the courthouse, at 100 Centre Street in Lower Manhattan. It is among a neighborhood of courthouses that also includes Federal District Court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and the state's civil, surrogate, family and housing courts. But a diverse lineup of small businesses nearby is tethered to this system, depending on it for survival. Some get by quite well, while others continue to struggle even as the economy recovers.
 At lunchtime on a recent Friday, Baxter's Pub was not as busy as usual. Many days at lunch, the bar stools are mostly taken, and court officers, jurors and lawyers occupy the six square tables. Joe Carty, the owner, estimates that 60 percent of his business comes by way of the court, which has a back entrance conveniently located just across Baxter Street from the pub. When the court is closed, the pub is closed. 
 Because of Mr. Carty's perch in front of the tap, one might guess that the native of Galway, Ireland, who lives on the Upper East Side, might be one of the most informed men in the entire court system. But he can't just rest on his laurels, because business took a dive after 9/11. Baxter's, which is about two blocks south of Canal Street, was a part of the red zone around ground zero, and was closed to traffic for weeks. 
 Once the area rebounded, it seemed like no time before New York City's smoking ban took effect last year, having results that Mr. Carty, 64, called, ''terrible, terrible.''
 ''Things haven't come back since Sept. 11th,'' he said. ''That was a big hit in more ways than one.''
 Jenny Shen felt it, too. She squeezes a lot of art into her narrow showroom, the Ama Gallery of Ancient and Modern Art, on Baxter Street just down from Baxter's Pub. 
 ''In the beginning, I wanted to give up,'' said Ms. Shen, 53, a native of Shanghai. She said her parents wondered why, when they arrived in the United States in 1979, she wanted to study art history at Hunter College. Seems as if they foresaw the problems Ms. Shen may encounter turning a profit in the art business. ''You won't make any money,'' she said they had warned.
 But Ms. Shen has nevertheless created a niche for her Asian art on the outskirts of Chinatown by specializing in handmade cards. She also boasts that her prices for prints, framing and paintings are modest compared with galleries farther uptown. And that difference is not lost on her regulars from the courthouse.
 ''We get a lot of tourists from Europe who come to visit Chinatown,'' Ms. Shen said. ''But most people come in from the courts for gifts and handmade cards. They come in at lunch and say, 'You have the most beautiful cards.' And our framing prices are much less than in Midtown, or other neighborhoods where people come from for jury service. Once they see that, they come back.''
 Just down Baxter Street from Ama, inside the narrow L.N.C. Custom Tailor Company, Man Chit Chiu, seems to be forever sewing.
 ''You know Chinatown, very cheap,'' Mr. Chit said. ''Uptown prices are different.''
 Have an important court date and need a new, hand-sewn, custom-tailored suit? Mr. Chit and his partner at L.N.C., Yu-Chung Lee, can help you out for about $460.
 L.N.C. is by no means a flashy outlet. The store is long and narrow, and decor consists of fabric cuttings waiting to be used and of clothing waiting to be picked up. Mr. Chit, 56, toils over a cutting board in a windowless back room. 
 He will hem a pair of pants for under $10. He is popular. And, not surprisingly, he tends to a lot of lawyers.
 ''Usually they want to make a new suit,'' he said. 
 Sept. 11 hurt L.N.C. Since then, the neighborhood has bounced back, but a powerful threat of a different kind recurs with increasing intensity, especially around holiday weekends: the department store sale.
 ''And suits are on sale very cheap,'' he said. ''And they're nice! So, some people buy the suit, then give them to me for alterations.''
 It might not be an ideal situation, but it keeps him sewing.
 For Juan Villar, location on Baxter Street is everything. Can there be a better place, he asks, for a bright neon sign announcing the availability of second chances and bail bonds than across the street from a courthouse and a jail?
 Mr. Villar, 27, didn't think so, so last year, he opened Second Chance Bail Bonds on the south side of Baxter Street. It is safe to say that 100 percent of his business is dependant on the Manhattan Criminal Court.
 ''We were very lucky to get this location,'' Mr. Villar said. ''There happened to be a bondsman here. He left, and we took over.''
 Minding the front desk on a recent Friday was Mr. Villar's cousin, Al Rodriguez, 29. With one other man who works nights, the three manage a steady flow of customers.
 ''The inmates look out the window, and they see the sign, the telephone number,'' said Mr. Villar, who lives in Rego Park, Queens. ''They have their family call us.''
 Mr. Villar said he hoped to expand the business to Nassau County and Queens. 
 ''It's profitable,'' he said. ''You just have to make sure you get bails.''
 Inside the Manhattan Criminal Court, there is room for small business, too. 
 There are only two places to buy coffee inside the court, and one of them closes in the midafternoon. The other is the JS Concession Stand, a relief for anyone who has ever been in the court very late, very early or any time on the weekends.
 Need a knish on a Saturday morning? JS can satisfy that need. Popcorn to relieve the stress of waiting for arraignment? No problem. Caffeine to stay awake on jury duty? Coffee is only 65 cents.
 ''Drinks are our No. 1 sellers, and candy,'' said Ahsanul Kabir, 38, the manager.
 The concession stand is located at the busiest entrance to the building, and is accessible to anyone who passes through the security checkpoint in the main lobby.
 It is a modest operation. It offers a variety of newspapers. A faded sign announces, ''We have umbrellas, aspirin, batteries.'' A few letters in the word ''concession'' went missing at the stand some time ago. Their spaces are filled in with that looks like brown marker. A Mountain Dew vending machine provides a burst of color. The service is always friendly.
 ''Coffee is good, but it doesn't make money,'' Mr. Kabir lamented. ''It was more profitable when we had a cigarette business. But then the mayor made the new rule,'' he said, referring to the citywide ban on smoking that went into effect last year.
 Plans for the future would include the installation of an A.T.M. and a magazine stand, if expansion were a possibility. But Mr. Kabir said that he is fairly sure that expansion is not an option. For now, the best he can do is sell more drinks.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Things haven't come back since Sept. 11th,'' said Joe Carty, owner of Baxter's Pub.
Jenny Shen, owner of an art gallery, says a lot of business comes from the courts during lunchtime.
 Man Chit Chiu of L.N.C. Custom Tailor Company says he tends to a lot of lawyers seeking new suits. (Photographs by Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); SMOKING (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); JURY TRIALS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); FAMILY COURTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); TERRORISM (64%); HISTORY (60%); ART HISTORY (60%); SMOKING BANS (50%) Restaurants; Terrorism; Courts; Courthouses

PERSON: Susan Saulny

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (54%) New York City; Chinatown (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



153 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2433 words

HEADLINE: Improving Home Improvement

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
''NOBODY trusts contractors,'' said Jim Quinn -- a contractor himself -- the co-owner of Thomas Murphy Associates in Port Washington, N.Y., which has been in business 15 years, ''and the process of getting contractors is sometimes a dicey game, because homeowners wonder if they can trust them.''
 While there may be no certainty of finding the perfect home improvement contractor, or of easing the stress and improving the outcome of the home improvement experience, there are some guideposts for the search. Interviews with home improvement veterans -- contractors, architects, regulatory officials and even home inspectors paid to cast a critical eye on the final results -- found some time-honored landmarks, and some surprises, on the road map to successfully completing projects with a minimum of pain and a maximum of satisfaction.
 Finding a good contractor is, of course, a key step. Others, according to professionals in various aspects of the home improvement world, include using an architect -- and sometimes an engineer -- for major projects, paying careful attention to the contract and spelling out in precise terms the materials to be used and the finishing touches to be applied to the job. 
 Homeowners spent $130.4 billion on remodeling in 2003, according to the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University, and those expenditures have been increasing. After rising by more than 10 percent in 2002, spending on home improvements increased another 7 percent last year, according to Kermit Baker, director of the Remodeling Futures Program of the Joint Center. And, Mr. Baker said, with an improving economy, home improvement expenditures are expected to rise again this year.
 The biggest worry for most homeowners contemplating improvement work -- first timers and even those who have been through the process before -- is finding a contractor. While there are many reputable contractors, experienced professionals whose skills are crucial in both major and routine jobs, the files of consumer agencies bulge with complaints about shoddy and dishonest work.
 The New York City Department of Consumer Affairs said that home improvement complaints continue to outnumber all other categories, with 700 registered by consumers last year. And the National Association of Attorneys General said that complaints about home improvement contractors outdistance all segments except auto businesses and phone companies. 
 Reni Erdos, New Jersey's consumer affairs director, said that in 2002 (the last year for which figures are available) 2,100 of the more than 18,000 written complaints received by her department were about home improvements. Such complaints are No. 1 among seniors, who are often ready targets of fly-by-night contractors, she said. 
 THE single most important step a homeowner can take in finding a contractor, authorities agree, is to make sure that the contractor has a license. In order to obtain a license, contractors must typically undergo a criminal history check, pass a written examination and pay a license fee -- and in some places, New York City and Nassau County among them, post a bond or pay into a trust fund that provides restitution to consumers victimized by shoddy or incomplete work. 
 ''A license is no guarantee that a contractor will always engage in proper business conduct,'' noted a spokeswoman in the city's consumer affairs department, ''but it gives that department the authority to act on behalf of the consumer.'' Between 1995 and 2001, the department paid out some $3.3 million in compensation to consumers, and last year it paid consumers $330,000, thanks to the trust fund.
 Various jurisdictions have different ways for consumers to check if a contractor is licensed. In New York City, consumers can telephone 311, the centralized service number, or go to www.nyc.gov/consumers. Westchester County lists licensed contractors, including the date their licenses expire, at www.westchestergov.com/consumer. That information can also be obtained by dialing (914) 995-2155. (A listing of similar contacts for other government agencies in the metropolitan area appears on this page.)
 C. Jaye Berger, a Manhattan lawyer, noted that it is a legal requirement in New York City that contractors be licensed. ''The absence of a Consumer Affairs license number on the contract,'' she said, ''is a red flag that this contractor is not a licensed company. And if he is licensed, he will be concerned about keeping the license.''
 Ms. Berger added: ''Make sure you have a good contract and have it reviewed by an attorney who knows this area of the law. Even sophisticated people often fail to have the contract reviewed before signing it.''
 Ms. Berger also said, ''Paying a contractor in cash is not a good idea, because it often winds up creating a dispute.''
 Before a contract with the contractor is signed, Ms. Berger and other specialists agreed, a homeowner would frequently be well advised to consult with an architect and possibly an engineer. ''One of the biggest mistakes the homeowner can make is leaving out the architect if one is needed,'' Ms. Berger said. 
 If the homeowner has not been clear in specifying everything he or she asked for and does not have an architect to convey those specifications to the contractor, she said, ''the results will come back to that homeowner in the form of change orders that will increase the price of the job agreed to in the contract.''
 Sherwood Dawson, who prefers to be called Woody, a builder for 28 years and then a home inspector for 18 years with an office in Cheshire, Conn., said that an architect would not generally be needed for a simple updating of a kitchen or bathroom, but should be hired for jobs that change the footprint of a home or significantly alter the plumbing or wiring. 
 On major projects for which bids are sought, an architect's blueprints and design documents are essential, he said, and the architect will usually put together a bid package, whose specifications will allow contractors to make complete and accurate bids. Homeowners should get prices from several contractors, he said. 
 ''If they don't have the architects draw up the blueprints and designs and the homeowner asks several contractors to bid on the job,'' Mr. Dawson said, ''most likely the winner would come in with extras -- for example, saying to the homeowner such things as, 'You didn't tell me you wanted a door here, this kind of material there and the number of lights there.'
 ''But if the same blueprints are given to each contractor, and if there's a dispute with a contractor because he didn't do what the client thought the contractor was supposed to do, if that contractor says it wasn't in the contract, he doesn't have a leg to stand on.''
 Mr. Dawson said the contract should contain a penalty clause in the event that the contractor fails to start or finish the project at the time specified. 
 Another desirable provision, Mr. Dawson said, is to stipulate that knowledgeable foremen will be on the job at all times to make sure that the project is being done properly. While that will increase costs, Mr. Dawson said, it may be a bargain compared with what the costs would be if the work is done without adequate supervision. 
 He added that the contract should also specify that the premises be swept up or otherwise left in good condition daily at quitting time. 
 Marcel de Winter, a registered architect in New York City, stressed the importance on major projects of a related profession, engineers. ''The first thing smart owners should do when they buy a home is get an engineer's report,'' he added, ''which should list the condition of the building and of its deficiencies.'' Mr. de Winter added that an engineer may also be valuable in a highly technical home improvement project.
 Generally, Mr. de Winter said, an architect will be knowledgeable about the feasibility of homeowners' plans and will examine zoning and code requirements before getting too far along in, for example, adding a swimming pool, a deck or another floor.
 JOHN MOSS, a building consultant and owner of Inspex Building Inspections in Jersey City, encourages homeowners to keep a watchful eye on the contractor performing the work. ''The homeowner should not be intimidated by the contractor,'' he said. ''He should stay on top of the project as often as possible to make sure that the work is performed properly.''
 Experience is one factor that may contribute to a satisfactory outcome. ''If I were hiring a contractor,'' Mr. Moss said, ''I'd want him to have at least 5 to 10 years of experience.'' 
 While contractors are the focus of most complaints about home improvement projects that turn out badly, homeowners may sometimes share the blame because they did inadequate homework before signing a contract. ''Homeowners should make sure the contractors are qualified to do the work they want done,'' said Walter Sedovic, an architect and the principal and chief executive of Walter Sedovic Architects in Irvington, N.Y. 
 In the case of a new roof, for example, manufacturers of newly advanced roofing materials require that the contractor be certified to know how to put the new materials on the roof, Mr. Sedovic said. 
 Several specialists said that contracts should go into precise detail on elements that the consumer has decided on. They should spell out, for example, exactly the type of windows that are to be installed or, in the case of hardwood floors, the kind of wood and the number of coats of finish on the wood. 
 Keith Steier, who owns Knockout Renovation in Brooklyn, said the client should accompany the contractor when picking out the materials. 
 Dana Williams, the director of concierge services for Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy offices in Manhattan, brings an especially experienced eye to the selection of contractors. In certain locations in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, Coldwell Banker offers homeowners referrals to local home improvement professionals -- a service provided free to people who have bought or sold homes through Coldwell Banker.
 Part of Ms. Williams's job is to pick contractors to recommend to clients. Once contractors have been referred to her, she personally examines their work and makes sure that they have liability insurance and that they also have workers' compensation insurance.
 MS. WILLIAMS said she also phoned the contractors' previous clients and asked them whether they were satisfied with the work and whether the workers left the house in good condition when they were on the job. 
 From the contractors themselves, she asks how long they have been in the business and what their employee turnover rates are. 
 The flip side of the coin of finding good contractors, of course, is avoiding bad ones. George A. Gardner, the director of consumer affairs for Suffolk County, said that his office periodically posts the names of contractors about whom complaints have been filed in the Consumer Affairs Department's section (under the heading ''Worst Unlicensed Businesses'') on the county's Web site (www.co.suffolk.ny.us).
 Mr. Quinn, the contractor in Port Washington, said that such efforts may be helpful, but are not the complete answer. Speaking of the contractors listed on Suffolk's Web site and other similar lists, Mr. Quinn said: ''They're like the worst of the worst, because to get to a point where their license is actually taken away, they have to be terrible people. But there are a lot of others like them out there that are not on the list that would be just as harmful.''

Checking on Contractors
 For those contemplating home improvement projects, help is available from myriad sources. Much of it is aimed at providing information to help homeowners approach a project. Some, however, especially from government agencies, is designed to help homeowners avoid dishonest or unsatisfactory contractors.
 Sources of home improvement advice include the Web site of the National Association of the Remodeling Industry (www.remodeltoday.com). Individual contractors also frequently have Web sites that show their work, and sometimes have general useful information. Home improvement advice is also sometimes available in home centers and large hardware stores. 
 * Information on whether contractors who perform remodeling or repair work on residential property in New York City are licensed is available on the city's Web site (www.nyc.gov/consumers) or through the 311 service telephone number. 
 * In Nassau County, similar information is available by telephoning the Office of Consumer Affairs at (516) 571-2600. Callers can also obtain a six-year history of any complaints lodged against contractors.
 * The Web site for Suffolk County (www.co.suffolk.ny.us) includes both a list of ''Worst Unlicensed Businesses,'' and a way of confirming that contractors are licensed. A section of the Consumer Affairs Department's pages on the site, under ''Licensing Bureau,'' allows a user to enter the phone number of a contractor. The site cautions, though, that if the contractor is not listed as being licensed, this should be verified with the Office of Consumer Affairs at (631) 853-4600. 
 * Westchester County, which requires that every home improvement contractor be licensed, has a Web site (www.westchestergov.com/consumer) listing the names of 5,600 home improvement contractors and the expiration dates of their licenses. It also has databases for the last 10 to 15 years and a history of complaints and their resolution. Those histories are not available on the Web site; they can be obtained only by sending a request by e-mail, fax or telephone at (914) 995-2155, and the histories will be mailed to the consumers. 
 * Rockland County's Department of Consumer Protection is available by telephone at (845) 364-2680. A representative will use its computer system to look up information about contractors and report whether they have licenses and whether they have had complaints to deal with. 
 * Connecticut's Department of Consumer Protection has a Web site to provide home improvement information for consumers and information about contractors' licenses and any complaints (www.state.ct.us/dcp). The information is also available by telephone at (860) 713-6125. 
 * New Jersey's Division of Consumer Affairs does not list contractors on its Web site, but a spokeswoman said callers to the Consumer Service Center could give the name of a contractor and find whether any disciplinary action had been taken against the company. The number is (800) 242-5846 within the state, and (973) 504-6200 from elsewhere. EDWIN McDOWELL


GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Kruger renovating a house in Munsey Park, Nassau County. Nationally, remodeling spending is expected to continue to rise this year.
Building Inspector -- John Moss
Lawyer -- C. Jaye Berger
Contractor -- Jim Quinn
(Photos by Barton Silverman/The New York Times, above
Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times, below left
Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times, below center
Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times, below right)(pg. 1)
A worker installs kitchen cabinets in a house being renovated in Munsey Park. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)
 Architect -- Walter Sedovic (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME REMODELING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (85%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%) Home Repairs and Improvements

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: Edwin Mcdowell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



154 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1; COPING

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Crowds, at Last, at a Hard-Luck Hotel

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS. 
E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE Regent Wall Street was one of the city's shorter-lived hotels. It opened in December 1999 and closed on Jan. 17, 2004, a victim of 9/11 and a sagging economy. In its last incarnation, it became a glamorous symbol of the excesses of the roaring 90's, just before the market peaked and the Internet bubble burst. Peter Jennings, the anchorman, was married there; so, less auspiciously, were Liza Minnelli and David Gest.
 But the last guests to walk through the massive bronze doors were a motley crew of lonely hearts: people facing divorce; immigrant street peddlers trying to assemble a life in New York; penny pinchers; the unemployed; Wall Street lawyers and bankers tethered to their offices; people wandering the streets in search of human contact. 
 They had been invited, so to speak, to a giant liquidation sale of nearly all the hotel's furnishings, the intimate detritus of transient lives -- pillows gray from contact with hundreds, maybe thousands of heads; beds with gilded pineapple finials atop the bedposts; armoires too massive to fit in the average New York apartment. 
 The invitation, stapled to a sandwich board on the sidewalk outside, screamed: ''Five Star Hotel Contents! 2 Weeks Only!!'' It was an effective come-on. For the first three days of the sale, which was to end yesterday, so many people flocked into the 12,000-square-foot ballroom that the line stretched out the door. ''We didn't have time to eat lunch until maybe 4, 5 o'clock,'' said Edgar M. Castellon, who works for National Content Liquidators, an Ohio company that bills itself as ''The Nation's Premier Liquidator for the Lodging Industry.''
 Mr. Castellon, a soft-spoken Salvadoran immigrant, has liquidated the contents of many of America's finest hotels. Before New York, he was in Houston and Washington. In most places, customers are allowed to go right to the rooms to pick out what they want. But not here. In a city with few public toilets, the management didn't want people to be tempted by the facilities, so all the merchandise had been taken to the lobby. 
 You might think the liquidation business would be a sad line of work, capitalizing on the misfortune of bad business decisions, profiteering on the backs of unemployed bellhops and maids. This would be a misconception, insisted Mr. Castellon's colleague Frank Cucinelli. In his experience, most liquidation sales occur because hotel furniture goes through a lot of wear and tear and has to be replaced regularly.
 Even so, the mood this day was somber. Here was a banker in a dove-gray suit, scrutinizing a row of gold-framed hummingbird prints priced at $50 each, reduced from $65. ''Do you think it's worth it?'' he asked his companion. ''Oh, yes,'' she assured him. ''The frame and glass would cost at least $120.''
 ''I think this one has more yellow in it, which is a little more antiquey,'' the banker said, lining up two identical prints as his companion composed her face into an expression of studied agreeableness.
 The banker was undergoing what he called ''a marital separation'' from his wife of 15 years and was too humiliated to reveal his identity. Two months ago, he rented a garden apartment in Westchester County, to be near his three children, and he needed stuff to put in it. ''I probably would have moved back to the city if I didn't have kids,'' he said. So there are apartments in Westchester? ''Actually,'' he said, ''they do a nice cottage business with people like me.''
 What kind of decorating style did he have in mind? ''Eclectic, probably,'' he said. ''Birds, so this would fit.'' So he has other bird things? ''No,'' he said, frowning. ''Only this.'' He walked out $50 poorer, carrying his print swaddled in bubble-wrap.
 A bit later, a woman with white hair down to her waist asked: ''Do you have any spare lampshades?'' They didn't, but the woman had another thought. She planned to take one of the supersize $15 feather pillows, cut it in half and sew it into two pillows.
 Mr. Cucinelli, a former men's wear buyer lured out of his Florida retirement by the opportunities in hotel liquidation, concentrated on selling the nine-foot-tall armoires. ''They're all wood,'' he told a customer. ''That's a $3,500 piece. We're selling it for $600.'' What style would he say this was? Mr. Cucinelli faltered, but only for a second. ''I'd say this is antique reproductions of French and Italian artwork.'' 
 Ndiaga Diagne, a sidewalk vendor of New York T-shirts -- ''a licensed peddler,'' he stressed -- loaded a dolly with a king-size bed that he was taking home to Little Senegal, in central Harlem. Before the Regent slashed its rates after the terrorist attacks, guests paid $545 a night to sleep in this bed, $1,600 if it was in a suite. Being a street peddler, Mr. Diagne knows a good deal when he sees one. At $225, this bed was a steal.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Haney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (88%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (78%); LODGING (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%) Hotels and Motels; Shutdowns (Institutional)

COMPANY: STATON INSTITUTE INC (53%); AMERICA'S FINEST PRODUCTS (53%); PURESPECTRUM INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Regent Wall Street (NYC Hotel)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541990 ALL OTHER PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (53%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (53%); NAICS335129 OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3648 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT, NEC (53%)

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



155 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13; DataBank

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: A Quiet Week (Except for That Verdict)

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
While it was a stomach-churning week for shareholders of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, the stock market turned in modest, steady gains. 
 For the week, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 11.92 points, or 1 percent, to close at 1,156.86. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 11.63, or 0.11 percent, to close at 10,595.55. The Nasdaq composite index rose 17.81, or 0.88 percent, to close at 2,047.63. 
 The broader market rose on Friday after the government released a weak jobs report. It suggested to some investors that the Federal Reserve would keep interest rates low for months.
 The best return among the 30 Dow industrials, 6.48 percent for the week, belonged to McDonald's, which reported its biggest monthly sales gains since the 1970's.
 The stock of Ms. Stewart's company was among the most volatile. On Friday, until trading halted at 3:12 p.m., shares had risen 16 percent, to $17, on the expectation that Ms. Stewart would be acquitted of the charges against her. When trading resumed 30 minutes later, the shares plunged 36 percent, to $10.86. Ms. Stewart was convicted of conspiracy, obstruction of justice and making false statements in connection with the sale of shares of ImClone Systems in 2001. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Ask JeevesNNM: ASKJThe online search engine is paying $343 million for a family of popular Web sites that includes Excite.com and iWon.com. The purchase would double its size.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.60WEEK'S CHANGE: +46.53%EST. '04 P/E: 44.98ImClone SystemsNNM: IMCLCarl C. Icahn, the billionaire financier, and affiliates have bought about 1.63 million shares of ImClone in the last two months, saying they thought the stock was undervalued.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $47.85WEEK'S CHANGE: +13.98%EST. '04 P/E: N.A.Deutsche BankNYSE: DBShares rose on speculation that Citigroup may make an offer for the company, Germany's largest bank. Neither company would comment.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $93.50WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.07%EST. '04 P/E: 14.60Best BuyNYSE: BBYThe electronics retailer posted stronger fourth-quarter sales, but investors were disappointed that it did not change its profit outlook.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $53.00WEEK'S CHANGE: -0.47%EST. '04 P/E: 22.12ManTech InternationalNNM: MANTThe company, whose technology is used for security clearances by the military, said 2004 profit would be lower than some Wall Street forecasts.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $19.76WEEK'S CHANGE: -5.36%EST. '04 P/E: 15.86Boston ScientificNYSE: BSXThe medical devices maker said it had received Food and Drug Administration approval to sell its Taxus drug-coated stent, becoming the second company to enter the market in the United States.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $43.53WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.56%EST. '04 P/E: 25.55McDermott InternationalNYSE: MDRThe company said it expected a fourth-quarter loss because of a cash shortage at one unit and increased expenses from another unit's proposed bankruptcy settlement.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $9.67WEEK'S CHANGE: -15.77%EST. '04 P/E: N.A.MedImmuneNNM: MEDIThe pharmaceutical company reduced its first-quarter and 2004 outlook for sales and profits.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.36WEEK'S CHANGE: -5.18%EST. '04 P/E: 42.29(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BONDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ACQUITTAL (66%); CONSPIRACY (66%); INTEREST RATES (54%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: MSO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



156 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11; Executive Life

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: The New Cost of Keeping Workers Happy

BYLINE: By DAVID KOEPPEL

 BODY:
EXECUTIVES have had their pick of job applicants during the sluggish employment market of the last several years. They have also found it easy to keep the employees they already have. 
 But a gradually improving economy could tempt more people to leave their jobs for better opportunities, according to employment and management consultants. That prospect is leading many senior executives to plan new enticements and perks to retain workers. 
 ''I think some employers are looking at a mass exodus,'' said Robert Morgan, president for employment solutions at Spherion, an international recruiting and outsourcing firm based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. In a survey conducted by Spherion in July last year, 51 percent of the 3,000 workers questioned said they wanted to leave their jobs, and 75 percent of that group said they were likely to leave within a year. In 1997, Mr. Morgan said, only 25 percent of the respondents expressed a desire to move on. 
 Turnover is extremely costly for companies. Spherion estimates that the turnover of one job, on average, costs a company 1.5 times an employee's annual salary, when separation costs, overtime payments to temporary workers, loss of productivity and replacement costs are considered. Some employment experts say employees' job dissatisfaction may have been driven by the layoffs of recent years. Joyce Gioia, president of the Herman Group, a management consulting firm in Greensboro, N.C., said that many employees who had managed to keep their jobs felt they were taken for granted and given increased workloads with little in rewards. Based on the Spherion study and several similar surveys, she said she expected that many workers who stayed in unsatisfying jobs during the economic downturn would leave as soon as they saw signs of a sustained economic recovery. 
 Some senior executives say the process has begun. Eric Bacolas, the senior vice president and global human resources director of Draft, a direct- and promotional-marketing agency based in New York, said that for the first time in several years, job candidates were becoming more selective and mentioning offers from other companies in interviews.
 Robert J. Puccio, vice president for associate services at Nationwide, the insurance and financial services company with about 32,000 employees, said that it was facing a possible ''war for talent'' this year. But unlike the late 1990's, when companies offered everything from massage therapists to space at work for employees' pets, employees will be more focused on work-life benefits like flexible schedules, telecommuting options and career planning assistance, he said. 
 Nationwide already has a fitness center at its headquarters in Columbus, Ohio, he said, and offers clubs geared to employees' interests -- whether in astronomy, bird watching, cameras or chess. In 2003, the company introduced a career-planning Web site, which provides information on company job opportunities, career development and the in-house mentoring service. 
 Mr. Puccio said Nationwide also offered opportunities to move within the organization's seven companies. About one-third of employees moved to other positions within the organization in 2003. 
 By the end of 2004, Mr. Puccio said, Nationwide plans to add classes and seminars that help employees with personal finance issues and 401(k) investments. Long-range plans include setting up an employee ''paid time-off bank,'' which lets workers accrue all their paid leave and then use it as they choose.
 ERNST & YOUNG, the accounting firm, is offering extra time off around holidays this year, according to Kevin Kelly, head of the firm's United States and Latin America human resources departments. Employees received a day off on the Friday before Martin Luther King's Birthday, creating a four-day weekend, and will also get extended time before Memorial Day and the Fourth of July.
 Executives at smaller companies are also trying ways to persuade workers to stay. 
 In 2003, Eisner Petrou & Associates, a public relations agency in Washington with 12 employees, had its first profitable year since 1999. Although David Petrou, the agency's co-owner and president, says he is still skeptical about the depth of the recovery, he hopes to hire two additional employees this year and to be able to give the remaining ones a raise of 5 to 6 percent. 
 ''With a firm this size, retention is crucial,'' he said. ''Our employees are our most tangible assets, so I try to make them feel vested in their jobs.'' 
 Some executives say they see no need to change the enticements they offer to employees. 
 Mr. Bacolas of Draft says his company has always tried to compensate its top performers well, and when possible, tries to give perks like free dinners or additional days off to overworked employees. 
 Similarly, Richard Smucker, president and co-chief executive of the J.M. Smucker Company, the maker of jams and preserves, said its retention strategy had not varied greatly over the years. 
 ''We do try to rotate jobs and offer people challenges,'' he said. ''We're constantly retooling our training program and trying new tactics. If our business is running well, then we don't have to put a lot of time into a retention program. That will take care of itself.''
 But other senior executives are trying new incentives to keep employees happy, particularly when they find it difficult to provide big bonuses and raises. In January, Dynegy, the energy company based in Houston, started an ''education in communities program'' that offered grants of up to $2,500 to schools, libraries and nonprofit educational programs selected by employees. One of the first projects is the addition of a nature trail for a Houston camp attended by mentally and physically disabled children.
 R. Blake Young, Dynegy's chief administrative officer, said the company planned to issue 40 grants this year. Employees submit the grant proposals, he said, and help execute the projects.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert J. Puccio, vice president for associate services at Nationwide, which has 32,000 employees, said it might face a ''war for talent.'' (Photo by Kevin Fitzsimons for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); OVERTIME (78%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TELECOMMUTING (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (72%); MASSAGE SERVICES (60%); BIRDING (50%) Labor

COMPANY: SFN GROUP INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (92%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (92%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (92%)

PERSON: David Koeppel

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (57%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (54%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



157 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; MARKET INSIGHT

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Assessing California's Stopgap Bond Sale

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
LAST week, California voters approved a plan to deal with the state's budget deficit by selling $15 billion worth of new bonds. 
 William M. Fitzgerald, director of the fixed-income investment team at Nuveen Investments, talked last week about California and the municipal bond market. Following are excerpts from the conversation: 

Q. The new bond issue will buy California time. How has the state been coping with the shortfall until now?
 These are coming due as of June 30, and the state will use the proceeds of the bond sale to retire some of this short-term financing and remove it from their balance sheet.

Q. Will the state sell all the new bonds at once?

A. No, their plan is to sell it in tranches, with the first being a $6 billion issue. In large part, that is because the state treasurer believes that will be sufficient to finance what they need between now and June 30. That offering is due sometime in May.
 If they were to sell it all at once, a $15 billion bond issue would have an impact on the market and create excess supply. It would be the largest issue ever, eclipsing the $10 billion taxable issue sold by the State of Illinois in June of 2003.

Q. Six billion dollars sounds like a big number, too. Can the bond market handle it?

A. The $6 billion figure is reasonable to complete. In 2002 the California Department of Water Resources sold $6.3 billion worth of power revenue bonds as part of the solution to their power crisis. But they had to offer higher yields to get it sold.

Q. Will the state need to pay investors more in order to entice them to buy the bonds?

A. Currently, California general obligation bonds are trading at a spread of 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, above AAA-rated bonds of comparable maturity.
 There is a finite amount of California general obligation bonds that the market can absorb. I believe that California will be able to successfully issue the bonds, but they will need to appeal to a broad group of investors outside the state. 
 One element working in California's favor is that new issuance is expected to be down 15 percent this year from the last year's record-setting level.

Q. In addition to approving the bond deal, California voters also strengthened the requirement that state lawmakers balance future budgets. How difficult is it going to be to close the $14 billion hole they have in next year's budget?

A. They plan to close it by using $3 billion in proceeds from the bond issue that was just approved and cutting spending by $4.6 billion, which is 5 percent of the state budget.
 That still leaves them with a structural deficit of $6 billion. They expect growth in personal income tax revenues will help them bridge this significant gap. The state relies on personal income taxes for 45 percent of its revenues.
 Five percent is a lot of money to cut out of a budget. It will be interesting to see how and where Governor Schwarzenegger says he is going to cut spending.

Q. How realistic is the state budget plan?

A. The plan requires economic growth to be above trend.
 It is entirely possible that the state's projections could be realized if the national economy grows at a 4 percent rate or higher. But the longer-term growth rate for the country has been 3 percent. We would need to see a sustained period of growth of 4 percent or more to allow California to grow its way out of its budget problems.

Q. State and local governments across the country have been forced to deal with hard times. Has the improvement in the economy been a help?

A. In the fourth quarter, state and local governments experienced a 4.5 percent increase in revenues, after two years of steady declines. However, since their rainy-day funds have been pretty much depleted, at this point state and local governments are operating on very narrow margins. Any disruption in the recovery will cause them problems.

Q. Have the Bush administration's tax cuts made municipal bonds less attractive as an investment class?

A. One of the effects of the income tax cuts that the Bush administration has implemented has been a widening federal budget gap. That has raised the issuance of new Treasury bonds to finance the debt. And that has made municipal bonds look relatively more attractive. They have been a less volatile, more stable investment than Treasury securities.
 At the end of last year, yields on AAA-rated municipal bonds were 95 percent of Treasury yields. With the decline in muni supply and the increase in Treasury issuance, muni bond yields are at 85 percent of Treasury bond yields. We consider that to be fair value relative to Treasuries. 


A. Up until this point they have financed their deficit by issuing different forms of short-term bridge financing with maturities that generally are less than a year. They have issued $11 billion in warrants and $3 billion in revenue anticipation notes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fitzgerald 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); BOND ISSUES (91%); NEW ISSUES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); INCOME TAX (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); WATER QUALITY (50%) Government Bonds; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: NUVEEN INVESTMENTS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Nuveen Investments

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: Kenneth N Gilpin; William M Fitzgerald

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



158 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6; L.I. @ WORK

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: They Can Make It There, but Some Prefer to Stay

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
ALICE MURPHY, a college student from Huntington majoring in history and education, is not sure of her career yet. But whatever it is, she will probably not be working on Long Island, which she finds culturally impoverished, relative to New York.
 ''I like the atmosphere in Manhattan better,'' said Ms. Murphy, a junior at Goucher College in Baltimore. ''In Manhattan, after work you can go to museums, the opera, the ballet and the theater. On Long Island, you can go to the movies. That's about it.''
 When Karen Masri, 32, graduated from college nearly 10 years ago, she was certain that Manhattan offered the higher salaries and career mobility she wanted. Born in Great Neck, she started out as a chef and gravitated to Manhattan because, she said, that's where ''the restaurants are that get the publicity and where the chefs get the attention.'' 
 She has since changed careers and is now a stockbroker for Salomon Smith Barney in Midtown. But her opinion about Manhattan has not changed; it's still where she wants to be.
 Long before Walt Whitman left his native Long Island behind for an editing job at the old Brooklyn Eagle, ambitious young Long Islanders set off to pursue fame and success elsewhere. Last month, a well-publicized survey of Long Island's economic problems said this exodus had accelerated in the last decade, becoming one of the chief obstacles to economic growth.
 During the 1990's, the number of people in the 18-to-34 age bracket on Long Island dropped 20 percent, a rate five times the national average, according to the study, Long Island Index 2004, which was prepared by the Rauch Foundation in Garden City. The study linked the exodus primarily to rising housing costs.
 But interviews with young professionals and their employers found that the cost of housing is but one of a number of issues driving away recent college graduates. Those who leave do so for a variety of reasons, most commonly for higher pay, a greater array of social and romantic opportunities, and more flexible and youth-friendly housing. 
 Some also mentioned the prestige factor of working in Manhattan and the opportunity to compete in a national or international market that was not only much larger than Long Island's but, in the opinion of some, much more sophisticated.
 Others said that employment in fast-growing economies in other parts of the country promised a lower cost of living while maintaining a salary parity with Manhattan. Most Long Islanders said that although they could earn more money in Manhattan, they weighed other factors, like commuting time and not having to rely on public transit.
 Lawrence A. Israeloff, 40, a lawyer and accountant at Feldman, Meinberg & Company, a Syosset accounting firm, spent almost two decades working for law firms in Manhattan and did not like it. ''The commute was torture for me,'' he said. ''I took a 50 percent pay cut to be close to home. Now I work five minutes from home.''
 Mr. Israeloff has not regretted his decision. ''There is no amount of money that would be worth it for me to ride the Long Island Expressway through the tunnel again or to take the Long Island Rail Road again,'' he said. Still, the lower wage scales on Long Island irk him, he said, and in his view, Long Island employers are not attracting top talent because they pay less.
 Prestige, he said, is a significant factor. ''There are certain people who say, for example, 'I want to work for Skadden, Arps,''' he said, referring to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, the Manhattan firm with 1,750 lawyers in 22 offices. ''Under no conditions would they work for a small Long Island firm.''
 ''The bottom line,'' he said, ''is that the most ambitious and competent people are going to Manhattan. Most people, I don't think would disagree with that.''
 Nicole Bardsley did. Ms. Bardsley, an account executive in her 20's at the EGC Group, an advertising agency in Hicksville, and a co-chairwoman of Fastrack, the Long Island Association's networking program for younger white-collar workers, said that professionals could make a name for themselves faster here than in Manhattan because Long Island companies were generally small enough for even entry-level employees to interact with industry leaders and make favorable impressions.
 ''Companies here don't have layers and layers of managers, so you have the opportunity to work closely with the principals'' of client companies, she said. 
 Jenny Lyn Georgiades, 30, an office designer for Waldner's Business Environments in Melville, said that having worked in both Manhattan and on Long Island, she found that Long Island offered a less stressful environment, in part because people seemed less competitive.
 On Long Island, she is able to arrange her schedule so that she can take kickboxing classes several times a week and can finish her M.B.A. degree at Adelphi on Saturdays. ''Had I still been working in the city,'' she said, ''I don't think I could have done this and still had a life or stable mental state.''
 Amy R. Burns, 33, an account manager for a Bay Shore software company she wouldn't name, said she could earn at least $10,000 a year more in base salary if she worked in Manhattan. But she would also face two more hours of travel time every day, commuting from Ronkonkoma, plus an extra $4,000 a year in travel expenses.
 The trade-off, in her view, would not be worth the cost. ''Trying to balance work and a family life is a little easier with a shorter commute,'' she said. ''With an infant son, I wouldn't be able to meet my work and parental responsibilities if I worked in the city.'' 
 Working on Long Island, she said, also fostered a sense of community. ''Your clients and co-workers are your neighbors,'' she said. ''You are making a difference in your community by putting money back into Long Island's economy.''
 Keshia Richmond, who owns Richmond Technology Solutions, a small software consulting company in Deer Park, said that the exodus of talented young workers from Long Island was indeed a reality, but not because of differences in pay. 
 Former employees, she said, complained about some of the very characteristics that Long Islanders consider attributes. For example, she said, Long Island's slower pace annoyed them, and the daily solo drives to and from work left them feeling isolated.
 While housing costs are high on Long Island, choices are also narrower than in some other markets, where young people can rent homes more easily, with roommates if need be, and be closer to urban centers for restaurants and entertainment.
 Limited social opportunities can make recruiting difficult, Ms. Richmond said. ''To get anywhere nearby for a happy hour, a power lunch, or just to hang out is usually a 20-minute drive in any direction,'' she said.
 Merrill Banks, the chief executive of Lloyd Staffing in Melville, the national employment services company, played down the fuss. Many of the young people now working elsewhere are going to return eventually, he said. 
 ''Many people work in the city because they know they have to have it on their resume,'' Mr. Banks said. ''They'll get paid more in the short run, and they're going to get paid more from Long Island companies after they have this experience.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Karen Masri commutes from Great Neck to Manhattan, where she is a stockbroker. In contrast, Lawrence A. Israeloff, a lawyer and accountant, took a 50 percent pay cut to work close to home. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); TRENDS (74%); COST OF LIVING (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); LAWYERS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Warren Strugatch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



159 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Sorting Out Suffolk's Employee Drug Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID WINZELBERG

 BODY:
SUFFOLK COUNTY hired a consulting firm last year to audit an employee-benefits contractor even though county legislators knew the contractor was also a client of the consulting firm, and the arrangement is still in place 10 months after one legislator raised alarms about the apparent conflict of interest.
 The contractor being audited is Express Scripts, which operates the prescription drug plan for county employees. The county began the audit last June, officials said, after news reports of several lawsuits filed against Express Scripts and other benefits contractors by municipal governments and labor unions, accusing them of improprieties in the management of similar plans.
 The county gave the auditing assignment to Mercer Human Resource Consulting, a New York-based unit of MMC, the large international consulting firm. The county had been using another of MMC's subsidiaries, Marsh Inc., for advice on health insurance and other matters since November 2002. 
 One of the voices critical of Express Scripts last spring was David Bishop, a county legislator from North Babylon. In April, he introduced a resolution calling for an audit of the company to see whether it was retaining drug rebates and discounts for itself that properly belonged to the county.
 He also told fellow legislators that Express Scripts was a client of Mercer, and he raised the issue of whether Mercer should get the contract. 
 But the resolution was not passed. Mr. Bishop said it was blocked by opposition from police union leaders who served on a joint labor-management committee supervising the county's employee health plans. 
 Peter O'Leary, a former head of the union representing the county's police detectives and now a legislator from Shirley, was co-chairman of the committee last year. He said in an interview that the committee thought Mr. Bishop's proposal ''would be redundant'' because it had already decided to have Mercer conduct an audit of Express Scripts. 
 The health plan committee, which includes nine labor representatives and nine county officials, is responsible for the $175 million the county spends on employee health care annually. 
 Jeffrey Tempera, the county's labor relations director and one of the committee's current co-chairmen, said that no one from the consulting company told the committee about its relationship with Express Scripts in February 2002, when it first bid to work for the county, nor when it was hired nine months later. 
 When Mr. Bishop raised questions about the relationship last April, Mr. Tempera said, he asked the company about it, and he got a letter back from a company representative dated May 1, saying that ''Mercer is engaged by Express Scripts as a compensation and benefits consultant,'' but that ''we have no incentive, financial or otherwise, to recommend or favor a particular pharmacy benefit manager.'' 
 Satisfied with that answer, the committee decided to continue to use Mercer, though it put the matter under the scrutiny of the county's Joint Audit Committee, which includes the county comptroller, the county treasurer and budget directors for the legislature and the county executive.
 Asked for comment, Al Modugno, a spokesman for Marsh, said on March 2: ''We believe Mercer Human Resource Consulting's engagement for Suffolk County does not present a conflict. It is well known that Mercer, as well as others in our industry, frequently advises pharmacy benefit managers, and we disclosed this fact and the nature of our advice to Suffolk County in May 2003.'' 
 Nonetheless, Joseph Sawicki Jr., the county comptroller, indicated in an interview last week that he was not aware of the connection between Mercer and Express Scripts. ''If that's true, then this is very disturbing and certainly bears further scrutiny,'' Mr. Sawicki said. His staff has been overseeing Mercer's audit of the county's drug plan. 
 Mr. Bishop said that the Employee Medical Health Plan committee should not have allowed Mercer to continue with the audit. ''I don't know what they were thinking,'' he said. ''Their chosen referee was tainted.''
 Mr. Sawicki said that Mercer was still working on its audit of Express Scripts, and that its scope had widened, raising Mercer's estimate of the cost by more than half, to about $150,000. Even so, he said, the county is now doing parts of the job itself. 
 ''We had to expand the audit,'' he said. ''We want independent confirmations with pharmacies on what Express Scripts pays for prescriptions and what Express Scripts charges us, which we are doing on our own. That's how we recouped $2 million from the last drug plan.'' 
 An Express Scripts spokesman said the company expected the audit to endorse the quality of its work. ''We have facilitated audits by Suffolk County in the past and will continue to do so in the future, including the audit recently requested by the county's comptroller,'' the spokesman, Stephen Littlejohn, said. ''We fully expect this new audit, like all previous audits, to demonstrate that Express Scripts has complied with all contract terms and procedures.''
 Maury Herman, a partner in Herman, Mathis, Casey, Kitchens & Gerel, an Atlanta law firm involved in 23 lawsuits against Express Scripts and other benefit contractors around the country, said of the companies, ''They are the quintessential middleman, causing artificial inflation of prescription drugs when they are required to reduce the cost.'' 
 Mr. Littlejohn of Express Scripts said the company had helped Suffolk County keep the growth in its spending on prescription drugs below the national average. 
 Suffolk's new county executive, Steve Levy, proposed a review of the county's health plans ''from top to bottom'' in his budget resolution, scheduled for a vote in the legislature on March 23.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); COUNTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); AUDITS (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); ETHICS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (56%) Medicine and Health; Government Employees; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Ethics; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: EXPRESS SCRIPTS HOLDING CO (92%); MARSH INC (83%); MERCER INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Mercer Human Resource Consulting; Express Scripts Inc

TICKER: ESRX (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (83%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (83%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: David Winzelberg; David Bishop

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



160 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9; In the Region/New Jersey

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Rutgers-Newark Prepares to Build Apartment Tower

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
AFTER a promotional campaign about the benefits of learning in an urban environment, Rutgers University's campus in downtown Newark has sharply increased enrollment over the past three years -- a boon to both the school and the city.
 But attracting more students has also presented a problem, university officials say: where in Newark are the students to live?
 The city's business district has managed a comeback as a commercial office center, with a number of large buildings undergoing renovation and some new construction in the last five years. The six-year-old New Jersey Performing Arts Center has brought entertainment-seeking crowds back downtown. New housing, however, has not been part of the package. 
 A large number of single-family homes and subsidized apartments have been built in various redevelopment areas in recent years. But in downtown Newark, there has been little new rental housing since World War II, according to state and city planners.
 The New York-based Cogswell Realty Group and, earlier, the defunct New Newark Foundation have struggled mightily to find financial backers for a high-end rental housing project envisioned for two historic buildings adjacent to campus. Conventional lenders were loath to take a chance on the market for such housing, though.
 But Cogswell finally secured a commitment from the federally chartered mortgage finance company Fannie Mae, which announced in December that it would invest $42 million for converting the two deteriorated landmarks: the Hahne & Company department store building and an Art Deco office tower at 1180 Raymond Boulevard. The final pieces of the financing for that $95 million project are still being negotiated.
 Even if the project does move forward soon, it will not provide housing especially tailored to suit students. It will simply provide an option to those who can afford it.
 Meanwhile, as Rutgers-Newark's enrollment has increased by almost 10 percent in the last three years to an all-time high of 10,500 spring-semester students, the university resorted to some make-do solutions. Existing campus housing units were reconfigured to hold twice or three times as many students. Some students are being housed at the nearby campus of the New Jersey Institute of Technology, and about 80 students have been assigned rooms at the Robert Treat Hotel this year. Arrangements have already been made to expand the number of rooms to about 150 at the hotel next year.
 ''These are temporary fixes,'' said Steven Diner, the Rutgers-Newark provost. ''We don't think the growing popularity of Rutgers-Newark campus -- or our students' new appreciation for the city of Newark -- is temporary, however.''
 SO Rutgers, working in partnership with private developers, will build new housing for 600 of its students on its campus. ''What choice did we have?'' Mr. Diner asked with a laugh.
 The university's board of governors recently approved construction of a major new building on land that currently serves as a campus parking lot at the corner of University and Central Avenues. The 13-story complex, to be called University Square, will include several recreation areas and some street-level retail space.
 Mr. Diner said he was already talking with Cogswell about putting up a second student housing structure on another site on the 37-acre campus. 
 Beyond that, the university owns property in the nearby James Street neighborhood, where the city is planning mixed-use redevelopment, including housing, retail and office space. ''The university could be a part of that,'' Mr. Diner said. ''There could be housing that would be reserved for students along with development outside of the university's needs.''
 But right now, university administrators are focused on meeting the needs of their growing and changing student body, said Mr. Diner and others. The fact that enrollment hit a new high in the spring, when it usually slacks off from fall, means there will probably be another spike in September, said Gene Vincent, the executive vice provost for administration.
 In addition, the nature of the student body at Rutgers-Newark is changing, according to the administrators, with more full-time undergraduate students than in the past. Undergraduate enrollment is growing faster than graduate and law school enrollment -- although both of those are also increasing, Mr. Diner said.
 ''The campus used to be more commuter-oriented,'' he pointed out. ''There were more older and part-time students, who didn't necessarily need housing. Now we have students who say they want to come here -- but only if there is housing in the community.'' 
 Mr. Vincent said that ''University Square will provide a lively, urban, 24/7 atmosphere for the campus.'' He added, ''The location of University Square couldn't be more advantageous for our students, as it is situated just minutes away from the Newark Museum, NJPAC, Riverfront Stadium and downtown business.''
 Rutgers will retain ownership of the land on which the new tower will sit. The $51 million structure will be built and financed by the New Brunswick Development Company and the Keating Development Corporation, working as partners in a new company, the University Square Corporation. The new company is guaranteed to receive the rent from the building for a period of 30 years to pay for the cost of construction, Mr. Vincent said. After that, building ownership reverts to the university.
 ''This provides a way to avoid the issuance of university bonds to finance construction,'' Mr. Vincent said, ''which is definitely the way we wanted to go. This keeps the project off the university's balance sheet,'' so the risk is carried by the private companies rather than the taxpayers. 
 The university officers said Newark city officials had worked closely with them to get the University Square project through the approval process, helping to assure that construction can begin within months. The start of construction is tentatively scheduled for June, and the building is to be complete by the summer of 2006.
 THE Rutgers-Newark campus encompasses the Newark College of Arts and Sciences, University College, the Graduate School-Newark, Rutgers Business School, the School of Law-Newark, the College of Nursing, the School of Criminal Justice and a host of research and outreach centers. The campus is one of three that constitute Rutgers, the state university of New Jersey. The other campuses are in New Brunswick and Camden.
 Rutgers-Newark is bordered by two other universities -- the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey and New Jersey Institute of Technology -- as well as by Essex County College, St. Michael's Medical Center and Newark's central business district.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The 13-story Rutgers-Newark housing complex is to replace a parking lot at University and Central Avenues. (Photo by The New Brunswick Development Corporation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); WORLD WAR II (53%) Dormitories 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



161 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; STRATEGIES

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Why an S.E.C. Hurdle Won't Stop Fund Speculators

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of CBS MarketWatch. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE Securities and Exchange Commission proposed last month that mutual funds be required to charge shareholders a 2 percent fee on all sales made within five days of purchase. While such a fee might well discourage short-term trading, it would not help ordinary investors.
 That is because the proposal doesn't address the root of the problem: the stale pricing of funds. Stale prices result from the delay between the last trade of a fund's securities and the calculation of a fund's per-share value. Arbitrageurs have been able to exploit stale prices and profit at the expense of ordinary shareholders. 
 Gregory B. Kadlec, a finance professor at Virginia Tech, says the S.E.C. plan ''is like trying to stop a freight train by placing a penny on the railroad tracks,'' because arbitrageurs do not need to sell fund shares within five days to lock in a profit.
 Professor Kadlec bases his assessment on a study of stale prices he conducted in 1999 with John M.R. Chalmers, a finance professor at the University of Oregon, and Roger M. Edelen, a former finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and now managing director of research at ReFlow Inc., a firm that helps mutual funds manage the cost of inflows and outflows. In their research, they showed not only that stale-price arbitrage was profitable when holding periods exceeded five days, but also that speculators could increase profits by not selling immediately. 
 The professors' study appeared in December 2001 in The Journal of Finance after circulating as an academic working paper for more than a year. 
 To understand the researchers' argument, consider a Japanese stock fund that is based in the United States. Each day at 4 p.m. Eastern time, it calculates its net asset value based on the last trades of each stock it owns. Those prices are stale, of course, because they reflect the close of the Japanese market more than 12 hours earlier. 
 Stale prices give speculators a profit opportunity on days when economic news during the New York trading day is particularly good, and the United States stock market climbs sharply. On such days, the odds are high that the Japanese market will rise when it next opens. By buying the Japanese fund, speculators can invest in Japanese stocks at prices that prevailed before the good news was announced.
 In the debate about stale prices, many people assume that such a speculator would sell this fund the next day. Undoubtedly, many speculators do, so the S.E.C. rule would deter them. But the researchers suspect that hedge funds and other institutional arbitrageurs typically do not sell right away, and that their profit, on average, has been double that of those who do. 
 Speculators who don't exit immediately can sell short an equivalent dollar amount of Japanese stock index futures contracts. Those contracts, traded in Chicago, are not calculated using stale prices. That lets speculators sell at a fair price in the futures market what they are buying at an artificially low price through the mutual fund. The profit they lock in is the difference between the two prices.
 So long as this hedge remains in place, the speculators' profit is virtually assured. If the Japanese stock market declines, the short position in index futures should gain roughly the amount the mutual fund loses; if Japanese stocks rise, the mutual fund's gain should more or less equal the loss in the index futures position.
 This hedge allows speculators to sell their mutual funds on a day when the United States stock market falls significantly. That gives them another chance to profit, because the odds are high that the Japanese market will decline sharply when it next opens. By selling the Japanese fund, and simultaneously covering their short position, the speculators realize an additional profit, which the researchers have found to be roughly equal to what the speculators captured when they first bought the fund and shorted the index futures.
 THIS exit opportunity rarely comes within five days, the researchers found. But even if it did, the futures-based hedge lets speculators wait until a later day of market declines before leaving.
 Although data is not available, Mr. Edelen said he would be ''highly surprised'' if significant numbers of hedge funds and other arbitrageurs were not using this hedging strategy. He said the S.E.C.'s proposed rule would not curb their activities, even though their trading inflicts the greatest damage on long-term fund shareholders. Furthermore, he suspects that the rule might encourage more speculators to try the hedge, causing more harm to long-term shareholders.
 In proposing the fee redemption policy, the S.E.C. conceded that the ''principal solution'' to stale-price arbitrage ''is the accurate calculation of net asset value each day, using current and not stale prices.'' Mr. Edelen worries that a focus on redemption fees will divert attention from that goal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); ETHICS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); BONDS (72%); TRAINS (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (55%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: Mark Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



162 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 81; STYLE

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Art Throb

BYLINE: By Roberta Smith. 
Roberta Smith is an art critic for The Times.

 BODY:
These days, people like to say, art collecting is ''event driven.'' More and more, collectors aren't content simply to take in a gallery show, glide discreetly into the back room and buy something. Now they want an occasion -- buzz, options, competition, witnesses. They want their consumption to be conspicuous, to see and, more important, be seen, caught in the act of collecting at one of the chic art fairs held annually in places like Paris, Berlin, Basel, London and, more recently, Miami, where these photographs were taken. 
 How best to sum up these intoxicating, exhausting, signifier-steeped spectacles staged in vast convention halls that have the air quality of a trans-Atlantic flight? 
 Find out for yourself. Later this week, one of the largest, the nearly 200-booth Armory Show, will come to Piers 90 and 92 in Manhattan. Dealers and art will travel from as far away as Australia to participate. Even more surprising, a good portion of the Chelsea gallery scene will pack up and move a mere 30 blocks at untold cost in stress, shipping and indigestion. (The Armory Show is notorious for lousy food.)
 Starting Thursday night, the rituals will unfold. There will be the land-grab private view, where collectors beeline for specific dealers and artworks and then compare bounty, followed by the requisite gloating or promises to themselves to do better next time. There will be enough overt fashion statements to fuel several runway shows. And there will be untold parties, private dinners, photo ops and late-night debauching. 
 Art fairs have the sexiness, glamour and randomness of art auctions, except that they last for several days, which turns them into marathons. They used to be the art world's dirty secret -- dealers didn't talk about them; artists wouldn't be caught dead at them. Now they are at the forefront, increasingly central to the financial and social machinations of the international art world and the local economies that harbor them.
 Expensive and grueling as they are, many dealers participate in as many as four fairs a year and derive a large chunk of their income from them. They are such enormous information depots that critics and museum professionals can't in good conscience skip them. And artists, especially young ones, are increasingly visible as well. Sometimes they just hang out; often they stage installations or performance pieces that won't be seen anywhere else.
 But many artists still hate them, dreading phone calls from their dealers that begin, ''I'm going to Basel'' -- or Miami or Florence -- ''and I want you to give me something special for my booth.'' If an artist is successful enough to have a New York gallery and two or three out-of-town galleries all making the same phone call three or four times a year -- well, you do the math. ''I wish they would just go away,'' muttered one benighted soul.
 To everyone else, art fairs offer the convenience of one-stop shopping. They temporarily set the art world on fast forward, collapsing time and space, speeding up the acquisition of not only art but also reputations. Art fairs also eliminate, or at least reduce, the intimidating mandarin hush endemic to many galleries. This can be a major relief to novice collectors and the interested public alike, although certain dealers maintain imposing levels of hauteur in any environment.
 For denizens of the art world, fairs are also occasions for nonstop gossip and what might be called status assessment, especially in a fair's waning, or ''baby stroller,'' days, when most sales have been made and the fair is clogged with the nonbuying public. Who has the best art or the best-looking booth? (Design and vintage of desk and chairs are always taken into account.) Who has brought the largest staff or seems to be doing the most business? Who is making the biggest splash by resurrecting a golden oldie like Lucio Fontana or Alexander Calder, or introducing a hot young artist, or providing a custom-built video room with seating?
 Market shares are also parsed. Is Richter up and Kiefer down? Are the new Gurskys moving, and how fast and for how much? Is John Baldessari having a moment? And when does high visibility start to look desperate?
 An art fair is above all neutral territory, a kind of professional DMZ and not just for newcomers, or the rest of us, but for the dealers themselves. While demanding, art fairs offer dealers a grown-up version (sort of) of sleep-away camp, where they are forced into often surprisingly pleasurable intimacy with their own kind. Back home, art dealers don't spend much time in one another's galleries. This is because every gallery is a discrete universe, created from scratch by its owner and assiduously controlled down to the last detail. Dealers have trouble leaving the ''shop,'' as some affectionately call it, much less setting foot in someone else's. But at an art fair the playing field is relatively level and unfenced. All the dealers are facing the same challenges while suspended in the same anonymous, temporary setting, accompanied by a few carefully selected talismans from their worlds back home. 
 Maybe everyone is just being nice, but despite the competition, hours and bad air, something like camaraderie prevails. This, as much as the money changing hands and the art being proselytized, may account for an art fair's fizzy energy and cheer. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: For sale at Art Basel Miami Beach -- the nonstop party and art fair that hijacked Miami last December -- a 1963 Warhol. Handling it with kid gloves: Amalia Dayan of the Gagosian Gallery in a Helmut Lang dress, $495, and apron, $525. At Helmut Lang, 80 Greene Street.
Hobnobbing from booth to booth, clockwise from top left: the dealer Sandra Gering, left, with the art doyenne Yvonne Force Villareal, in front of a light installation by her husband, Leo Villareal. On Yvonne, Tom Ford for Yves Saint Laurent Rive Gauche silk satin trench coat, $3,995. At Yves Saint Laurent Rive Gauche boutiques. A Prada-clad John Connelly in his gallery's booth featuring artwork by Assume Vivid Astro Focus. Shirt, $585. At Prada stores. ''Your Cat Is Dead,'' by Jack Pierson, is the backdrop for Lisa Overduin and Shaun Caley Regen of Regen Projects, an L.A. gallery. Regen wears a Chanel leather jacket, $4,440, and top, $1,355. At Chanel, 15 East 57th Street. Jenny Liu at the Project booth in front of artwork by Julie Mehretu. Mayle silk chiffon top, $350. At select Barneys New York stores.
Life's a beach party, from top: Nathalie Karg and Stefania Bortolami letting it all hang out at the collectors Rosa and Carlos de la Cruz's party in their art-filled manse. Bortolami in a Helmut Lang dress, $1,415. At Helmut Lang. Pastries for the refined palette at a Miami Art Museum party. Rosa de la Cruz at her party with the curator Sandra Antelo-Suarez and the artists Philippe Parreno and Pierre Huyghe. Bonnie Clearwater, right, chatting with artist Inka Essenhigh at the Museum of Contemporary Art. Clearwater in a Bill Blass beaded tulle skirt with taffeta lining, $3,510. At Bergdorf Goodman.
A shy Justine Wheeler-Koons, center left, with her art satyr husband, Jeff, at the party after the party taschen gave for its new art book ''goat: A Tribute to Muhammad Ali.'' Jeff in a Calvin Klein Collection suit, $1,155, shirt, $145, and tie, $95. At Calvin Klein, 654 Madison Avenue. Cecilia Dean, above, of Visionaire, celebrating the magazine's ''scent issue'' at party central -- the Raleigh Hotel. Silk georgette dress, $2,200, at Emanuel Ungaro boutiques.
So as not to ruin the Annlee installation at the de la Cruzes' party, above, booties were provided for Sandra Antelo-Suarez, in a Narciso Rodriguez linen dress, $1,290. Dress at Bergdorf Goodman. Barneys New York. Right, from top: The art gadfly Clarissa Dalrymple in front of a piece by Adam McEwen. Dalrymple wears an Ann Demeulemeester jacket, $1,500. At Bagutta, 402 West Broadway. Melissa Bent, left, and Mirabelle Marden, owners of the Rivington Arms gallery. On Bent, Balenciaga by Nicolas Ghesquiere dress, $5,245. At Linda Dresner, 484 Park Avenue, by special order. Marden wears a Paul & Joe top, $290. At Hush, Walnut Creek, Calif. The Rubell family looking to add to their already mammoth art collection. Lisa Phillips, director of the New Museum of Contemporary Art, viewing a piece of performance art on the beach in a Missoni dress, $1,230. At Missoni, 1009 Madison Avenue.
Sara Fitzmaurice, above, the publicist for Art Basel Miami Beach, is kissed for a job well done by Samuel Keller, left, the fair's director, and the dealer Perry Rubenstein at a welcoming party at the Raleigh Hotel. Judging by the smiles on many satisfied dealers and the more than 500 galleries that applied for exhibition space, Art Basel Miami Beach was a huge success. Fitzmaurice's Prada tie-dyed blouse, $1,395. At Prada stores. (Photograph by Jessica Craig-Martin
 Styled by Anne Christensen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (74%); AUCTIONS (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (70%); FASHION SHOWS (69%) Art; Trade Shows and Fairs; Apparel

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (58%) Roberta Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



163 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; YOUNG LOVE, NEW CAUTION -- First of two articles.

LENGTH: 4444 words

HEADLINE: Behind Fall in Pregnancy, a New Teenage Culture of Restraint

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Alberto and Jasmine are 16-year-old sweethearts, or were until that day in November when Jasmine, who planned to be a virgin until marriage, learned in the halls of DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx that Alberto was ''messing around.'' 
 She raged, she wept and she broke up with him. He apologized, he cried and she took him back. Then she suggested they cut school and have sex -- ''to keep him,'' she explained tearfully. 
 It could have been one of the oldest stories in the book, except for the real-life ending: Alberto said no. 
 Though he is just one teenager -- short and freckled, with close-cropped kinky hair, a Hispanic surname and an electric smile -- his personal decision speaks to the underlying causes of an extraordinary demographic shift.
 The teenage pregnancy rate in America, which rose sharply between 1986 and 1991 to huge public alarm, has fallen steadily for a decade with little fanfare, to below any level previously recorded in the United States. And though pregnancy prevention efforts have long focused almost exclusively on girls, it is boys whose behavior shows the most startling changes.
 More than half of all male high school students reported in 2001 that they were virgins, up from 39 percent in 1990. Among the sexually active, condom use has soared to 65 percent, and nearly 73 percent among black male students. The trends are similar, if less pronounced, for female students, who remain slightly less likely than boys to report that they have had sex. Nowhere are the changes more surprising than in poor minority neighborhoods in Harlem and the Bronx, which a decade ago were seen as centers of a national epidemic of teenage pregnancy. 
 Researchers often sum up the findings in one tidy phrase: ''less sex, more contraception.'' But there is nothing simple about their puzzlement over the reasons. 
 ''The default position is 'Yahoo, let's have sex,''' said Sarah Brown, director of the private, nonprofit National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy. ''It takes some motivation in a highly sexualized culture for teenagers not to have sex. To use contraception takes a lot of motivation.''
 ''I think there's something very profound going on. I don't think anybody understands in depth this change in teen culture.''
 Experts can rattle off a litany of possible reasons for the turnaround: the fear of AIDS, and the impact of AIDS-prevention education; the introduction of injectable forms of birth control; changes in welfare policy and crackdowns on fathers for child support; the rise of a more religious and conservative generation of teenagers; an economic boom with more opportunities; and an array of new youth programs, especially those stressing both abstinence and contraception. 
 Even advocates of these developments agree that they cannot account for the shift, or predict how long it will last. Yet the cultural changes now at work are quite astonishing when viewed up close, in the lives of teenagers themselves. In their topsy-turvy world of explicit sex and elusive intimacy, young people yearning for human contact are distilling new codes of conduct from a volatile blend of sex education, popular culture and family experience.
 The patterns and contradictions unfold in the secret life of Alberto R. and Jasmine O., in an all-boys discussion group at a Harlem school clinic, and in the cellphone riffs and sidewalk banter of many other teenagers.
 The range of attitudes toward sex is striking. Two high school buddies, Toby M. and Manuel R., are miles apart in their sexual choices at 18, though both are veterans of the same cutting-edge reproductive health program for boys at their Harlem public high school, Bread and Roses Integrated Arts. 
 Toby, lanky and talkative, counts five partners since he lost his virginity in the seventh grade, with a girl his own age: 12. ''I wasn't stupid,'' he insisted. ''We did it correctly. We used a condom.''
 His buddy Manuel, who mentions that his stepsister gave birth at 12, says he intends to forgo sex until marriage, as his Pentecostal church demands. But in explaining his abstinence, he also credits the safe-sex pamphlets his older sister sneaked home from a Planned Parenthood clinic, and the Lifetime channel they watched together.
 ''Every other movie on that channel is, like, a teenage mother crying or a woman getting beat,'' he explained. ''And my older sister, who is sexually active, we'd just be watching TV and she'd be, like, 'You do know how that happens, don't you?'''
 Outside, where students from several high schools flow to the West 135th Street subway stops on Edgecombe Avenue, the spirit of hip-hop music videos prevails.
 ''All the dudes, like now, we're strapping up,'' boasted a 15-year-old in a fashionably flat-billed cap, within earshot of a group of girls. Another boy of 15 quoted a different expression for using a condom: ''I wrapped the rubber tighter,'' from a song by the rap star Jay-Z. The lyric is not part of a paean to safe sex, just a contemporary take on a timeless theme: Women cannot be trusted.
 Soon the girls on the block were protesting that spin on the familiar double standard. They complained that except for docile types deemed ''wifey material,'' girls risk being branded as ''slides,'' ''hos'' or ''skeezers,'' while the boy having sex with them is called a ''player'' and wins high-fives from his friends.
 In a field mired in ideology, the voices of such teenagers challenge all camps. From the right, critics of comprehensive sex education argue that it gives young people a dangerously mixed message: Don't have sex, but if you do, protect yourself. From the left, opponents of abstinence-only education say it is based on a lie: Sex before marriage will only hurt you. 
 But these teenagers cannot escape mixed messages about sex, or the complications of deciding if, when and how to sample it. They are picking from a new multiple-choice menu, where virginity and oral sex can coexist and erotic rap makes the case for condoms. And between the lines, they are feeling all the old emotional conflicts: jealousy, ambition, loneliness, love.

A Couple's Complex Dance
 They met freshman year, in a third-floor biology classroom. Alberto asked Jasmine, ''If there was a fire here right now, how would you get out?'' She replied, ''I would jump out the window.''
 She was the one ready to take a romantic risk, as girls, who mature before boys, often are. After a few weeks of friendship, she asked Alberto to a movie. Days later, they confessed that they liked each other. Soon they were cuddling at the movies, kissing in school corridors, holding hands in the street.
 In an earlier era, one thing might have led to another. But their romantic dance was unfolding to a different tune.
 Alberto's favorite class was sex education. One day last fall, he teased Jasmine by saying he wished he were still a sperm inside his father, and that ''me and my stupid self would not never have swum up the long tunnel and swam toward the mysterious, great white ball.'' 
 Jasmine laughed. Later, she repeated the line to a girlfriend as they waited in the Montefiore Medical Center's health clinic on DeWitt Clinton's second floor. Some students, like Jasmine, were waiting for asthma prescriptions or athletic checkups; others were there for birth control, pregnancy tests or screening for a sexually transmitted disease.
 ''My boyfriend's crazy,'' joked Jasmine, a slim, pretty girl who tries to keep her long hair sleek and blond like Britney Spears's. ''I want to be a psychiatrist, so we're good together.''
 They were good together, too, because they shared a desire to remain virgins until marriage. But their reasons owed more to family experience than to formal education, more to TV shows than to church sermons.
 Both were born to Puerto Rican parents in the Bronx in 1987, the year the United States surgeon general, C. Everett Koop, defied his fellow conservatives and ordered a sexually explicit report on AIDS sent to every household in the nation. Dr. Koop had less success in his push for sex education in third grade; Alberto was in junior high before he had his first lesson about H.I.V. But by then he already knew that his maternal grandmother, a heroin addict, had died of AIDS at age 40. 
 As long as Alberto could remember, his mother had warned him not to have sex, and to use a condom if he did. The consequences of unintended births are part of the fabric of his life. His father was 17 when Alberto was born and has mostly been in prison on drug charges ever since. His stepbrother dropped out of school at 17, fathered a child and could not find work. His mother, a nurse, and his stepfather, a hospital clerk, lived together unmarried for a dozen years and produced four children, including twins, now 5. 
 Alberto had a different vision of his future, one that the rising expectations of the 1990's seemed to put within reach. He wanted to be a dentist, he said, like the kind woman who fixed his teeth at a Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center clinic when he was a child. 
 Jasmine, like Alberto, had a grab bag of reasons for wanting to keep her virginity ''until I'm married or until I feel ready.'' But she hinted that her idea of feeling ready was evolving. Early in her sophomore year, when she and Alberto split up for a few months and she had a relationship with another boy, sex seemed like a real possibility. 
 ''I was going to, but then we broke up,'' she recalled. ''I want to lose it to whoever I'm going to be with forever. That's what I want, but it's hard.''
 Some of her reasons for holding off defy conventional categories. ''If I do have sex before I'm married,'' she said, ''then the honeymoon won't be all exciting like you see on TV -- so romantic and like a big deal.''
 Almost in the same breath, she vowed that when she turned 18, ''I'll get that thing you put in the arm that prevents you from having children for five years.'' Without knowing the name of the birth control device she had in mind -- apparently Norplant -- she expected to keep her fertility under control, and knew her professional goals depended on it.
 Unlike Alberto's family, Jasmine's is religious. But she considers religion part of a growing rift with her parents. Her father is over 80, a retired bodega owner who speaks no English and is, Jasmine complains, ''obsessed with God.'' She says he forced her to attend his Pentecostal church until she was 13, when she rebelled. Still, Jasmine describes her attachment to virginity as ''sort of religious'' because, she said, ''I believe in the Bible.''
 She also believes in girl power. Her mother, 53, a school-crossing guard, once tried to throw away Jasmine's favorite belt, the silver one inscribed BITCH. Jasmine insists it is actually a defiant acronym for Beautiful, Intelligent, Talented, Caring and Honest -- something that her pop-star idol, Christina Aguilera, might wear. 
 She does not talk to her parents about anything, she declared, least of all sex. ''They criticize too much,'' she said. 
 Instead, she used to talk to a half sister in her 50's who lived upstate and had taught her how to swim. But last April, the half sister died. Family feuds barred Jasmine from the funeral. The same month, Alberto's grandfather died. Then his father emerged from prison, but barely had time to meet Jasmine before being sent back to jail again.
 The couple comforted each other all spring and summer. ''I love you so much,'' Alberto wrote in their photo album in July. ''I can't wait to see you in a big white dress.''
 But in the meantime, to express their love -- and satisfy their curiosity -- they tried oral sex once. It was Jasmine's suggestion, ''to see how it feels,'' she said. Alberto wore a condom, and his little brothers and sisters kept pestering from behind the closed door. 
 Both agreed that oral sex does not count as having sex. ''It was boring,'' Jasmine confessed, then amended her verdict: ''Since me and him were not having sex I was like, all right, at least do that. It made me feel closer to him.'' 
 Alberto said, ''It's not too appealing to me.'' But he understood why Jasmine had the idea. ''It's everywhere now,'' he said. ''MTV, B.E.T. It's like, even on the Disney Channel, there's movies on that. It's not like back then.''

Switching Signals
 Twelve years ago, when Alberto and Jasmine were children, long-smoldering public concern about teenage pregnancy erupted across America, focused on low-income minority city neighborhoods like theirs. Teenage childbearing was denounced as a core cause of poverty and all its ills, from crime and drug addiction to bad schools and welfare dependence. By 1995, curbing the reproductive behavior of girls in these communities was accepted as an urgent goal of public policy. 
 But the data lagged behind reality: In hindsight, it is now clear that teenage pregnancy had already begun its decline in 1991, well before welfare changes and the economic boom, and well after the first round of sex education programs. Paradoxically, the public outcry was peaking just as researchers like Frank Furstenberg, a sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania, began to believe that the ill effects of early childbearing had been overstated, because contributing factors, like poverty and school failure, had been confused with consequences. 
 The uproar over teenage childbearing probably reinforced what was already under way, Mr. Furstenberg said: Poor teenagers were adapting to a new timetable for growing up. They were trying to manage the growing gap between the typical onset of sexual activity and an economically viable adulthood. That challenge was not new, but the gap had been getting longer and more perilous year by year, and early marriage -- the oldest answer to unintended pregnancy -- had all but vanished as a prospect by the 1990's.
 In the mid-20th century, if a teenage girl like Jasmine became pregnant, she might expect to marry Alberto. The couple could hope to make ends meet with factory work or other well-paying jobs that did not demand a higher education. But the more the outlook for such jobs dimmed, and the more expenses like rent and child care outpaced the income such a family could command, the further marriage retreated. 
 By the 1990's, more young people at the bottom were getting the picture, sociologists say. Like Alberto, many saw how relatives had been caught in the backwash of change. At the same time, they saw rising numbers of black and Hispanic students going to college. Both prospects raised the stakes of postponing parenthood. 
 Despite the political drumbeat for marriage, despite adolescent dreams of white dresses, the proportion of teenage births that occurred out of wedlock continued to rise. About 79 percent of births to women age 15 to 19 are nonmarital now, up from 67 percent in 1990, and from 21 percent in 1965. 
 But as avoiding early parenthood became more desirable, more low-income teenagers were being primed to try a mix of better contraception and strategies to delay intercourse -- strategies that now range from pledges of virginity to oral sex.
 ''From the ground up,'' Mr. Furstenberg said, ''kids are getting quite different signals from the signals that were there 25 years ago.'' 
 Toby, for example, the third child of a poor, young single mother, was 9 or 10 the day his aunt wrote ABSTINENCE in chalk across a big easel. His mother timidly talked about the birds and the bees, then put a condom in his wallet. Finally he understood the joking admonition his grandmother used to make whenever his older brother left for a night out: ''Wear a sombrero!'' 
 It was that older brother, now 26, who provided the condoms Toby used in middle school. ''I was trying to have sex to be in that in-crowd,'' Toby confessed. 
 He was speaking in a small group of high school seniors assembled by Brad Kerner, a health educator assigned to their school four years ago by the Young Men's Clinic, a project of the Columbia School of Public Health and New York-Presbyterian Hospital. The project itself testifies to a more open sexual culture and the realization that adults can help boys, too, prevent pregnancy.
 Toby grew up without a father, and met him only once, at 16, in a fast-food restaurant. ''His reason for not seeing me? 'I forgot where you lived,''' Toby recalled. ''I almost threw him through Burger King's plate glass window.'' Toby's sister had a miscarriage at 17, and a son a year later. 
 ''She was like, 'No one loves me, I'm going to have a child who will love me,''' he said, citing a classic motive for teenage pregnancy -- one unyielding to contraceptive education. Toby, too, experienced the costs: He gave up his Boys Club scholarship to a prep school in Maine because the birth precipitated a family financial crisis. And since he helps care for his nephew, now 3, and newborn niece, he added, ''I know what the sleepless nights are like.'' 
 His friend Manuel, the Pentecostal church member who practices abstinence, suggested another reason pregnancy is down: ''More people know about oral sex now. They're doing that instead.'' 
 Research on the subject is scant. But there is indirect support for Manuel's idea that oral sex -- which he rejects for himself -- is more likely to serve as a substitute for intercourse among his peers than it did in the late 1980's.
 In 1995, half of 15- to 19-year-old males reported having received oral sex, according to the National Survey of Adolescent Males, up from 44 percent in 1988. The steepest increase by far was among black teenagers, to 57 percent, from 25 percent in 1988; the prevalence among white teenagers, in contrast, was unchanged at 50 percent. Blacks of both sexes between 15 and 17 also showed the steepest decrease in sexual intercourse: a 28 percent decline from 1991 to 2001, according to a recent analysis by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
 Demographers point out that American teenage-pregnancy rates are still 2 to 10 times higher than those in other Western countries, which have had the same pattern of spike and fall since AIDS erupted. But better contraceptive practices and delays in first intercourse have contributed about equally to a 35 percent decline in birth rates among 15- to 17-year-olds in the United States, and to an even more impressive 46 percent decline among non-Hispanic blacks that age, according to the C.D.C. analysis of several studies.

A Turnabout for Boys
 If AIDS contributed to greater sexual caution, the mystery is why teenage pregnancy and childbirth spiked from 1986 to 1991, when awareness of the threat of H.I.V. was growing. 
 Some explanations focus on a time lag. Research suggests that formal AIDS-prevention education, like the message of vulnerability conveyed by child-support enforcement, can reduce sexual activity and increase condom use among boys, if it reaches them before they become sexually active. 
 But the full impact of these messages on pregnancy rates could only be seen as the first wave of young boys exposed to them, like Toby's older brother, reached late adolescence and passed into their 20's. Teenage pregnancy rates (which closely follow adult fertility trends) are driven by 18- and 19-year-old women and their partners, including men in their 20's, who are responsible for far more pregnancies than younger people. 
 ''Over the decade, we moved from a view of men, 'Oh, you can't do anything with them,' to a recognition that lo and behold, all the trend data indicate that guys are the ones who have changed their behavior the most,'' said Freya Sonenstein, who directed the groundbreaking National Survey of Adolescent Males in 1988 and 1995.
 Not that teenagers always tell the truth, especially about a subject as loaded as sex, she allowed. But objective measures have confirmed those trends, and the willingness of more boys to admit being virgins is itself a signal of cultural change.
 Of course, girls, too, have played a role in the declining pregnancy rate, research shows, especially those who have turned to Depo-Provera, a hormonal birth control shot introduced in 1993, which seems especially popular with teenagers most likely to become pregnant: girls 17 or younger who already have one child.
 The surprise is that a growing percentage of boys use condoms even when their partner is on hormonal birth control, including the pill and the patch. 
 ''The pill shifted responsibility and accountability for contraception onto women,'' said Kristin Luker, a sociology professor at the University of California, Berkeley. ''AIDS has created a powerful incentive for both people to take responsibility.''
 It is hard to overestimate the influence of AIDS, but its effects are not as simple as one might think. While the epidemic led to a fear of sex and increased education about its risks, it also touched off a barrage of explicit sexual discussion and imagery that reverberates 24 hours a day in television, movies, music and on the Internet. 
 Doug Kirby is one of many researchers on teenage pregnancy who are somewhat mystified by the result. ''There's so much more sex in the media,'' he said. ''But the percent of young people who have sex is going down. I wonder, is there just simple saturation? Is sex not quite so off limits, so titillating?''
 Peter Bearman, a sociologist at Columbia University, has another explanation, culled from one of his controlled research studies on teenage pregnancy: Forming any opinion at all about sex and pregnancy makes teenagers better at contraception. And ''culturally, kids are thinking about sex more, developing attitudes about it,'' he said.
 Toby and Manuel's classmate Ali A., a basketball shooting guard who lost his virginity at 14, says he is tired of thinking about sex. Of sex on TV, he said, ''It's all hyped.'' Shaking his cornrow braids, he declared: ''It's not about sex no more. We try to enjoy our lives now. Not to have the stress.'' 
 The stress for this generation comes not just from the risks of sex in the age of AIDS and child support, but also from the challenge of maintaining relationships, said Susan Wilson, director of the Network for Family Life Education, an academic group. It sponsors a national newsletter, Sex Etc., written by teenagers, who show remarkable agreement across lines of race and class. 
 ''They want to get away from the clinical aspect of sexuality,'' she said. ''They all want to learn more about relationships, intimacy, talking to your partners, love.''

Trying to Save Face
 As they transplanted their romance back to school last fall, Jasmine worried how Alberto would deal with the peer pressure that still celebrates boys for being ''players'' and condemns girls who play along. But she devised a strategy to save Alberto's reputation without compromising her own, a way to negotiate the double standard's fine line.
 ''I told him not to lie and say he has had sex with me,'' she explained in late October. ''Just say, 'We've been going out for seven months, so what do you think?' So he doesn't have to be embarrassed in front of his friends.''
 She was still blissfully unaware that her young man had begun to stray.
 At first, Erica was just one of Alberto's friends. They were in the same photography class. Erica loved a Harry Potter book that Jasmine despised, and Alberto suddenly wanted to read it. Erica let him sip her vanilla latte, and he discovered that he did not hate coffee after all. 
 One afternoon, hanging out at Erica's house after school, he said, they started ''kissing and touching.'' They carried on like that for two weeks. Then Jasmine found out. 
 She was willing to take Alberto back, but only on the condition that he never talk to Erica again, not even look at her. And she tried a new way to secure his love: offering sex. 
 '''Cause he knows how important it is to me, if I had sex with him, it would be harder for him to leave me, harder for him to hurt me,'' she said between sobs. ''But he was, like, 'No.'''
 Alberto told her she would end up thinking the only reason he had come back to her was to have sex. But his refusal added to Jasmine's suspicions. And a day later she knew he had broken his promise: One of her ''spies'' had spotted him outside school, getting Chinese food with a girl who fit Erica's description.
 Steeled ''to act cool,'' Jasmine went to his house in the Castle Hill section of the Bronx for a new showdown that would leave her with her pride. She pulled out his trove of photographs from the summer, retrieving memories of her golden skin and small bikini.
 ''You love me, right?'' she said. ''You want to be with me forever, right?''
 Yes, Alberto kept saying, yes.
 ''Yeah, well, I don't want to be with you another year, another day, another hour,'' Jasmine declared, grabbing the pictures and bursting into tears. 
 ''He starts crying,'' she recalled the next day, ''how he don't deserve me. Hugging me, saying he was sorry. I was like, 'Alberto, let me leave.'''
 Five days later, she was in a better mood, and Alberto was at her side. ''I took out all my anger,'' she exulted. ''I had a fight today with the girl.''
 As Jasmine and Alberto described it, Jasmine had confronted her rival right in front of the school. Jasmine punched her in the face. And soon they were in an all-out, hair-pulling fistfight, as other students cheered, ''Go! Fight, fight!''
 Only Alberto tried to stop it. He conceded he felt sorry for Erica, who was suspended for fighting. ''But,'' he added, ''I like Jasmine better.'' 
 There were dividends for Alberto, too. ''In the school, everybody was, like, congratulating me.'' His male cousins now call him a pimp, he said, meaning ''a guy who has a lot of girls.'' 
 The reality was different. ''Me and him are on a break,'' Jasmine said. ''My rules are neither of us can mess with anyone else and he can't see that girl. I'm sort of, like, testing him.''
 By New Year's, Alberto had passed Jasmine's test, and they were officially sweethearts again. But Jasmine had new doubts as Valentine's Day approached. ''It's boring,'' she complained. ''Then again, I know me and him don't want to be without each other.'' 
 Ten days ago, she heard that Alberto was spicing up the public version of their stale romance by bragging to his friends about their lovemaking. On the advice of the girls on her swim team, she countered his invention by spreading one of her own, disparaging his sexual performance.
 Underneath the raunchy tit for tat was emotional turmoil, which erupted during a telephone call. Jasmine called Alberto a loser. Alberto declared the relationship dead. 
 Jasmine agreed. Or maybe not. ''If he calls to say he's sorry,'' she asked, ''should I take him back?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ali says AIDS and other concerns have made sex stressful.
Manuel, 18, a high school student in Harlem, says he intends to forgo sex until he is married. (pg. 37)
Alberto has seen the hardships caused by teenagers having children. Jasmine also wants to postpone sex. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 36)
Jasmine and Alberto, 16-year-old sweethearts in the Bronx, resolved early in their up-and-down romance to remain virgins. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Less Sex, More Protection, Fewer Pregnancies''American teenagers are having less sex and using more condoms . . .Graph tracks the percentage in grades 9-12 (boys and girls) who have ever had sexual intercourse from 1990-2001.Graph tracks the percentage of high school students (boys, girls, black, white, hispanic) who reported using a condom the last time they had sexual intercourse 1991-2001.. . . Resulting in fewer pregnancies and births, but still more than in other Western countriesGraph tracks the pregnancy rate per 1,000 ages 15-19 from 1975-2000.Graph tracks the U.S. birth rate per 1,000 women ages 15-19 from 1950-2000.Graph tracks the births per 1,000 women 15-19 in the United States, England and Wales, Canada, and France from 1970-2000.(Source by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
the Alan Guttmacher Institute
 Child Trends Databank)(pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); TRENDS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (74%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); AIDS & HIV (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (66%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (60%) Sex; Teenage Pregnancy; Men; Women; Condoms; Blacks; Research; Surveys and Series; Sex

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: Nina Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WALES (79%); ENGLAND (74%); FRANCE (50%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



164 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2953 words

HEADLINE: Food Fighter

BYLINE: By Peggy Orenstein. 
Peggy Orenstein is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
It started with a peach. Not just any peach but a Frog Hollow Farm peach, coaxed into its fullness by the rich loam of the Sacramento River Delta. A golden peach suffused with a lover's blush, a hint of erotic give at the cleft, its juice sliding down the chin at the gentlest pressure -- it was a peach that tastes the way peaches once did, the way they should. It was the peach with which Alice Waters, the founder of Chez Panisse in Berkeley, the chef who revolutionized American fine dining, imagined she would transform children's lives. 
 It was Frog Hollow peaches, which can sell for about $5 a pound, that Waters took seven years ago to the first day of summer session at Martin Luther King Jr. Middle School in Berkeley. She was carving an organic garden out of a parking lot next to the playground, planting the seeds for a schoolwide program to promote ecological and gastronomic literacy. One bite of these peaches, she thought, and the scales placed on students' eyes by the false prophets of the junk-food industry would fall away. They would see the folly of their Devil Dog ways and convert to the gospel of lush produce. Like Genesis inverted, the fruit of knowledge would lead them back to the garden of innocence. It didn't quite work out that way. ''They wouldn't touch the peaches,'' Waters recalled. ''They said they were furry.''
 That was in 1997, and although Waters, a former Montessori teacher who advocates experiential learning, has been subject to a few lessons herself, her near religious sense of mission is undiminished. These days the student-tended garden is a stunning acre. She has also built a cooking classroom at the school, whose students are largely middle- and low-income children of color, with storage cabinets of handmade, recycled materials and compost bins nestling on indigo linoleum. Waters is raising the $400,000 annual budget for these two projects, collectively known as the Edible Schoolyard, through nonprofit organizations, including the Chez Panisse Foundation. 
 Last month she upped the ante, presenting a districtwide proposal to the school board that, she says, will ''transform education through the school-lunch curriculum.'' The first step will be a multimillion-dollar 15,000 square-foot dining commons at King. Furnished using renewable materials and serving breakfast, lunch and a snack made from local organic ingredients, it will serve as a model for how she believes the nation, and not just its elite, should eat. (Last year she also started a garden-to-table project at the coincidentally named Berkeley College at Yale, involving the kinds of students who would be more likely than the middle schoolers -- who actually reside in Berkeley -- to become patrons of Chez Panisse.) Her dream is to spread her ideas across the country, as she did with her new American cooking in the 1980's, but this time transcending class and age. By re-engineering schoolchildren's taste buds, Waters says, she can reform America's relationship to food -- to what we eat, how we eat, where it comes from and how it ought to taste.
 Waters has always been as much activist as restaurateur. Her passion for simply prepared food using the freshest ingredients first blossomed in the French markets she wandered as a student in Paris, then marinated in the counterculture of 1960's Berkeley. A result was a melding of politics and pleasure. She considers food a vehicle -- the vehicle -- for social change. Rather than parlaying her celebrity into a TV show, a chain of restaurants or a frozen-food line, she has used it to preach conscious consumption, her ultimate recipe for overcoming postmodern alienation and overstuffed lives. She says that if Americans would choose seasonal, organic food grown through sustainable techniques by local farmers, if we would serve caring meals at the family table rather than scarfing Happy Meals in the minivan, we would restore family values, transform our communities and stabilize the environment. We would also enjoy ourselves more. ''There's so much pressure to continue the way we're going,'' she says, ''and no enlightened direction to go the other way. You have to begin someplace.'' She gestures around the middle-school kitchen. ''And I think it's with children. It's right here.''
One afternoon while waiting to meet Waters, I sized up her competition: the Snack Shack, a dilapidated outdoor stand, is the only place King's 900 students can currently buy lunch. The fare is pizza, hamburgers, hot dogs and nachos -- though calling these greasy items prepared elsewhere, wrapped like airline food, frozen and reheated by those names is an insult to junk food.
 As students from King whirled around, flirting, playing basketball, lolling on the grass, I asked a few of them what they had eaten the previous day. A sixth-grade girl could recall only that she had two doughnuts for breakfast and half a sandwich and candy for lunch. An eighth-grade girl skipped breakfast and lunch altogether and had a Coke after school, followed by a sandwich for dinner. The boys ate more consistently, but the nutritional content was not much better: breakfast was Frosted Flakes or hash browns from McDonald's. Burgers or pizza for lunch. Lots of chicken for dinner. Vegetables beyond carrots or corn were scarce, unless ketchup counts. The closest thing to fruit for many was a bag of Skittles candy. Only two children had eaten balanced meals within 24 hours. This in a town renowned as a foodie's mecca. Nationally, a third of children eat fast food for at least one meal a day.
 Weaning children from their three basic food groups -- fat, sugar and salt -- won't be easy. The statistics on childhood obesity have been repeated so often that they risk becoming mere background noise. According to the Centers for Disease Control, one in six children ages 6 to 19 are overweight -- even more among African-American and Latino teenagers. Among other things, overweight kids are at greater risk of developing asthma, diabetes and high blood pressure. Fast food, a sedentary lifestyle and the decrease in the number of schools offering physical education classes fuel the trend, but the 29 million students who sit down to school lunches daily also encounter meals riddled with fat. That's partly because the National School Lunch Program's mandate is also to provide a market for surplus agricultural commodities, particularly beef and dairy products. 
 To Waters, the obesity epidemic is a symptom of a deeper issue: how fast food and industrial agriculture are destroying the environment and our culture. ''We're losing the values we learned from our parents when we sat around our family table, when we lived closer to the land and communicated,'' she says. ''The way children are eating now is teaching them about disposability, about sameness, about fast, cheap and easy. They learn that work is to be avoided, that preparation is drudgery.''
 Waters describes a seductive world, one that tugs at nostalgia for the past. Who would disagree with the importance of the family table? Who really prefers to eat at Taco Bell? But for single parents, or those in hectic two-income homes or any mom or dad balancing the swirl of children's scheduled activities, Waters's vision might inspire as much guilt as longing. Waters, who is divorced and stopped cooking at Chez Panisse 19 years ago after the birth of her daughter (now a Yale student and the impetus for the project there), acknowledges as much. ''It's hard to keep the nuclear-family table together,'' she told me. ''But it meant even more to me as a single mom. I brought in a whole lot of friends to come and eat with us.''
 Given the crisis in children's diets, particularly those of poor children, some also question the wisdom of Waters's emphasis on local and organic ingredients. ''We should beware of economic elitism,'' warns Adam Drewnowski, director of the nutritional sciences program at the University of Washington in Seattle. ''Going to an inner-city school and telling kids to eat organic is trying to project a middle-class lifestyle without giving people extra money to attain it.''
 Alice Waters doesn't want to hear from naysayers, nor does she want to dwell on the question of how a district that is laying off teachers can rationalize gourmet meals, even if private financing foots much of the bill. ''I refuse to operate in a paradigm of scarcity,'' she says. She admits that raising the nutritional level of school food would be useful but insists it's not enough. ''There's a health emergency and a planetary emergency,'' she says. ''We have to be aware of whom we're buying our food from and how it's produced. You can't just take the vending machines out of the cafeterias and think that solves the problem.''
 Ultimately, Waters says, if you focus solely on health, you'll never change kids' eating habits: you must start with pleasure. ''Kids need to find these foods to be delicious so they fall in love with them, and it changes their lives forever.'' Freshly picked produce is tastier than that which has lingered in cold storage. And that, she maintains, may inspire a kid to choose an apple over a Snapple. 
 Waters has learned a thing or two since the Frog Hollow peach debacle. These days at the Edible Schoolyard, the first lesson for incoming sixth graders is picking and roasting an ear of corn from the garden. For many it's the first time they've tasted the fresh, and certainly the fresh-picked, version of their favorite vacuum-packed vegetable. While tilling the garden, they're encouraged to graze the Cape gooseberry patch or snack from the esplanades of fruit trees. Slowly, carefully and always emphasizing participation in cultivation and preparation, students are enticed to try the more ewww-producing stuff: asparagus, kale, fava beans.
 ''These kids remind me of my daughter when she was about 4,'' Waters says. ''They don't like to try what's unfamiliar. They don't want their food mixed together. Those are big psychological barriers. If they haven't put time into the garden and in the preparation and sitting around the table, it's 50-50 whether they'll eat something even if it looks good.''
Waters envisions the dining commons as a similar act of seduction. Entering the ''beautiful, convivial, anti-institutional room,'' the children will look through an open kitchen to a wood-burning pizza oven. They'll be involved in setting the tables with cloth and real cutlery. The proposed menus themselves read little differently from those of a traditional school lunch. There is oven-fried chicken, sausage-and-pepper pizza, beef tacos. The difference is in the preparation and ingredients, the freshness of the accompanying salads and fruit. ''I'm not trying to pull out the hot dog,'' Waters explains. ''Maybe we have a hot dog, but it's made with great pork and tastes great and the roll is right and we're buying this from the right people.''
 Waters is not the first to dream of matchmaking struggling farmers with local schools. Farm-to-school programs have been gaining ground among health advocates, environmentalists and the Department of Agriculture for nearly a decade. There are now programs, though more limited than the one Waters envisions, in 400 school districts in 22 states. Considering that a school the size of King can consume 250 pounds of potatoes for one meal, such partnerships could guarantee security for local farmers, change planting patterns, stop urban sprawl and potentially lower prices. 
 But how, precisely, would such a system work? One sticking point, according to Robert Gottlieb, professor of urban and environmental policy at Occidental College in Los Angeles, is the logistics of purchasing and distribution. The L.A. school district, for instance, decided a program in which farmers' markets supplied produce for in-school salad bars presented too many variables, among them inconsistent supplies and having to coordinate with different farmers. Instead it opted to go with its established wholesale system. Another difficulty is that Waters's locally grown, organic meals may end up costing about $5 compared with the current $3 for a typical school lunch. Waters would like to institute a sliding scale, with more affluent parents subsidizing others; she'll also encourage community members to sponsor individual children. That might work in food-obsessed liberal-hearted Berkeley, but larger-scale success would demand radical change at the federal level. Marsha Guerrero, the Edible Schoolyard program coordinator and Waters's lieutenant for the dining commons, argues that's possible. ''When we understood how many kids were smoking, we launched national antismoking campaigns and drug-education programs in schools,'' Guerrero says. ''This issue is at least as serious as those are.'' 
One morning last year, I wandered through the Edible Schoolyard garden reading the student-painted signs for roses, spearmint, grapes, strawberries, fig trees, onions, poppies. The sixth and seventh graders spend 10 weekly 90-minute sessions here as part of their science curriculum and an equal amount of time in the kitchen with their humanities classes. The eighth graders visit each venue about six times a year.
 Kelsey Siegel, who works as garden manager, listed the tasks of the day: the students could choose to help build a bench using a sustainable cement mixture of clay and straw. Or they could plant mustard greens or radish seedlings. Or weed the garlic. As a special treat, they also got to make pizza in an outdoor wood-burning stone oven, built by a friend of Waters's.
 Within a few minutes, the students had scattered. By the pizza oven one group rolled out a cornmeal crust, brushed it with a layer of garlic-infused olive oil and sprinkled the top with feta cheese, spring onions, chard, rosemary and mint. ''This cheese smells like feet!'' announced a compact boy in a red fleece pullover. Then, realizing he'd been impolitic, he added, ''I guess it's a good way to eat if you want to be organic and vegetarian.''
 As I walked back to the kitchen, I bumped into Waters and Guerrero. ''What did they think of the pizza?'' Waters asked expectantly. Before I could reply, Guerrero, the voice of pragmatism, jumped in. ''They hated the cheese, didn't they?'' Waters furrowed her brow a moment, then brightened. ''If the kids think feta is weird, why not have them make their own fresh mozzarella? It's the easiest thing in the world.''
 The kids may still prefer Domino's, but Waters is onto something: teaching about new foods, emphasizing participation and offering choices are all critical to nudging children toward better diets. A Cornell University study found that elementary-school students who were educated about healthier options introduced in the cafeteria were significantly more likely to sample the new items, and a U.C.L.A. study found that adding a salad bar to the cafeteria, which allows kids to choose their own fruits and vegetables, increased produce consumption at lunch 40 percent among low-income kids.
 Researchers from Children's Hospital in Oakland recently endorsed Waters's plan as a defense against obesity and diabetes. Meanwhile, preliminary results of a three-year study on the Edible Schoolyard curriculum by Michael Murphy, associate professor of psychology at Harvard Medical School, are intriguing: after one year, students at King, compared with a control group at a similar middle school, showed improved behavior and fewer emotional problems. They were savvier about ecology, and their overall grade point averages improved. 
 ''What this research shows about vegetable eating,'' Murphy continues, ''is that you probably ought to put kids in a garden but also teach them about gardens and cook the food from the garden and have them taste it and see it's delicious. And then do it repeatedly. That's why a dining commons would be effective. Eating a cucumber one time isn't enough.''
That night, Waters invited me to dinner in the upstairs cafe at Chez Panisse. We slid into a simple wooden booth. Waters recalled that when she started the restaurant, which had one floor then, people told her she was crazy. The tables were too close together, they said, the atmosphere too casual. Finding a reliable network of local farmers who used sustainable methods was inconceivable. And serving just one prix fixe option for dinner? Absurd.
 But that's the thing about Alice Waters: practicality is not her starting point. She is a romantic, believing in her vision even when it seems unreasonable, going about making it happen and waiting for everyone else to catch up. Perhaps her plan for America's schools will indeed be like her fine dining revolution, with its mixed lettuces and sumptuous peaches: years from now we'll look back on today's lunchtime offerings, which seem so inevitable, and see them for the soggy iceberg lettuce and canned string beans they are. 
 Our waitress set down the entree Waters ordered for us: salmon (wild from Oregon) with spinach (from nearby Terra Firma Farm), spring onions (in season for a few fleeting weeks), chervil butter and a sprinkling of young peas. I panicked. I hate peas. But since I was dining with one of the world's renowned chefs, I forced myself to dig in. With the first sweet bite the prejudice I'd clung to since I was, yes, 4 years old, melted away. Waters, oblivious to my revelation, continued doing what a visionary does best: she preached about how to introduce kids to vegetables in ways that would make them ask for more and waxed on about starting a chain of tortillerias to finance her projects. And she makes you believe, if just for the space of a dinner, that a better world is possible. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: By getting students' hands dirty in this garden, Alice Waters says she hopes they may be more inclined to eat vegetables grown there. (Photograph by Justine Kurland)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CURRICULA (73%); MONTESSORI SCHOOLS (73%); GARDENING (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); RELIGION (66%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); BUDGETS (62%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%) Education and Schools; Biographical Information; Lunch and Breakfast Programs; Organic Food; Food

PERSON: Peggy Orenstein; Alice Waters

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Berkeley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



165 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: The Working Poor vs. Everyone Else

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Emblazoned across the cover of the Feb. 15 Book Review, as an introduction to your review of ''The Working Poor,'' is the most consequential falsehood in American political culture: ''Millions in America are employed but remain poor. 
Why? No one likes it this way: not liberals, not conservatives.''
 The sad fact is that they both like it this way. If they didn't, they would do something about it -- as have some other, more caring societies -- rather than continue to reap the (illusory) benefits of cheap labor.
 Ron Suskind, in his review of David K. Shipler's book, focuses on portraits of individuals that are supposed to make the working poor more real. Woven into this approach is also an account of small-scale governmental policies and charitable ameliorations of working poverty, along with descriptions of those actions of the poor themselves that serve either to improve or to worsen their lot. One can only assume this focus reflects that of the book Suskind reviews.
 But those countries that do not have, as the United States does, enormous and widening disparities of wealth deal with the reality of poverty by focusing on a few national policies that work. These countries (predominantly Scandinavian or European with strong social democratic political traditions) have national health insurance, state-provided pensions (which allow low-income workers more disposable income in the short run as well as a dignified retirement), a high and nationally uniform level of spending on education, enforced laws ensuring the ability of unions to organize and represent workers, and unemployment compensation that does not compel the unemployed to take inhumanly low-paying work.

Joshua Markel
Philadelphia


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); LITERATURE (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); EDUCATION FUNDING (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Books and Literature

PERSON: David K Shipler; Ron Suskind; Joshua Markel

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



166 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1; HOME FRONT

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: For Dot-Com Casualties, a Slow Recovery

BYLINE: By Betsy Cummings. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN he was laid off in the dot-com bust, Mauricio Carey knew that it might take a while to find a new job. He never expected that it would take two years.
 In July 2001, a supervisor called Mr. Carey, then a senior designer at IconNicholson, a technology design firm, into his office. ''He said, 'Sorry, we don't have the business to support you anymore,''' Mr. Carey recalled. 
 Mr. Carey, who had already survived three rounds of layoffs in a firm that had dwindled to 60 people from 140 in six months, said he wasn't surprised. Nor was he pessimistic, despite fewer job prospects in an economy weakened by dot-com failures. After all, in the fall of 1999, he had arrived in New York and received five job offers within a week. 
 But by 2003, Mr. Carey had sent out 400 resumes and received only two interviews. ''I didn't expect that I would have the amount of trouble that I did,'' he said. 
 Like thousands of people who lost jobs during Silicon Alley's crash, Mr. Carey's situation represents how hard rebounding into the workplace can be -- even now -- for those who were left unemployed by the dot-com bust. In today's job market, employers are still seeing resumes of job seekers who had chosen to sidestep a bleak job search by moving overseas or entering graduate school when they were let go from Internet companies, said Christopher Jones, a career columnist at the Yahoo site HotJobs.
 Part of the problem, aside from an economy diminished by terrorism and troubled markets, was that the typical career support structure --former employers and connections to job leads -- did not exist for job seekers because many dot-com companies closed in such a short amount of time. That was particularly true for New York, says Jeff Taylor, founder of the job search engine, Monster. On top of that, ''unemployment rates were high, but even higher for narrow skill sets within the Web development scene,'' Mr. Taylor said. By the time Mr. Carey found a job in September 2003, overall unemployment in New York City had risen to 8.6 percent, from 6 percent in July 2001, when he was first let go.
 Getting to that offer, as an art director at Ann Taylor Inc., was not easy for Mr. Carey, 35, who lived on occasional freelance jobs and unemployment when the flow of freelance work dried up. At one point, Mr. Carey, unable to pay his rent for two months, negotiated with his landlord to prorate payments once he found employment. 
 Such dire situations have forced some New Yorkers not only to juggle bills and negotiate rent payments, but also to seek work outside their professions. Mr. Carey, for example, considered applying at Barnes & Noble, since he had managed a bookstore in college. But he quickly discarded the idea, afraid that it might limit his time to find work in his field that could pay more.
 Instead, he cut back his expenses, refusing, for example, to go out for nearly two years -- a stark contrast to a time when he might have spent $75 at a bar. ''I was down to eating one meal a day, and there were periods when I would sleep a lot,'' he said. 
 Part of the damage of Silicon Alley's collapse was its demoralizing effect on workers who were suddenly jolted from a life of feeling entitled to high salaries and fast career growth.
 Mr. Carey, who had held upper-level design jobs, found himself interviewing for entry-level positions. One potential employer demanded to know why he did not have experience designing Web banners. ''It's like asking a guy who rebuilds carburetors if he can change a tire,'' Mr. Carey said. 
 In January 2003, Mr. Carey considered moving to Atlanta. 
 That was when he got a call from Ann Taylor. A friend of Mr. Carey's gave his resume to the company's creative director. For six months he heard nothing. Then, the creative director called. He said, '''You're the only person we're interested in looking at,''' Mr. Carey recalled. Even then, he had a series of interviews over six weeks before he was offered the job. 
 ''In New York, I grew up professionally and personally,'' said Mr. Carey, who added that he is now happier than he has ever been. ''I was determined to not move.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mauricio Carey's job hunt lasted two and a half years after he was laid off during the dot-com crash. Even now, many who lost their jobs in the crash are still unemployed. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%); TERRORISM (50%) Computers and the Internet; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: ANNTAYLOR INC (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (62%)

PERSON: Betsy Cummings

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



167 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-7-04: ESSAY

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: The Third Man

BYLINE: By Sean Wilentz. 
Sean Wilentz is the Dayton-Stockton professor of history and director of the American Studies program at Princeton University.

 BODY:
Ralph Nader is once again running for president, but unfortunately for him, he is running in 2004 and not 1860 or 1912. 
 Historians and pundits like to cite the rise of Abraham Lincoln's Republican Party as the exception to the rule about the small influence of third parties and candidates in American presidential politics. Yet the Republicans were not in fact a third party. By the time they organized in 1854, the nation's two-party system had already collapsed following 35 years of argument over the spread of slavery. One major party, the Democrats, had splintered over the issue, and the other, the Whigs, had effectively vanished. 
 Ralph Nader, with his announcement that he will try to challenge what he calls the ''duopoly'' that makes Washington ''a corporate-occupied territory,'' seems to think that he can replicate the original Republicans' spectacular success. And yet unlike antislavery agitators, he is opposing not an existing two-party system but just one-half of that system -- the Democratic Party. During the 2000 campaign, a sympathetic interviewer for the radical magazine In These Times reported that Nader talked about ''leading the Greens into a 'death struggle' with the Democratic Party to determine which will be the majority party.'' Now Nader is continuing his fight to the finish -- not as a Green but as a pristine ''independent.''
 In the United States, third parties and candidates, whether they like it or not, have always been gadflies. They raise issues and propose programs that the major parties are either too timid or too unimaginative to embrace. When they succeed, they help shift national political debate, as the Populists did in the 1890's or as the Socialist Party and the ''Bull Moose'' Progressive Party did in 1912. Sometimes their proposals become law, as in the case of unemployment insurance and Social Security -- old Socialist Party proposals that eventually won favor among the electorate. But the price third parties pay for their success is enormous -- for after their issues have been taken up by others, they become irrelevant even as goads. 
 Nader's intention is not to advance third-party politics, any more than it is to push campaign-finance reform or to stop global warming. Rather, he seems to think that his insurgency presages the end of the party system as we know it.
 But Nader will never be a Lincoln -- for we are not living in a latter-day equivalent of the 1850's. Although specific abuses cause considerable agitation among liberals and Democrats, the nation is not as riven over ''corporate power,'' Nader's diffusely projected target, as it once was over slavery. Nor are the parties as indistinguishable as Nader implies. After four years of the corporate-dominated Bush administration, the Democrats are more united and outspoken in their goals than they have been for many years.
 When he announced his fourth try for the presidency on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' on Feb. 22, Nader claimed that he wanted to ''fight for all third parties'' against a system ''controlled by two parties in the grip of corporate interests.'' Yet after running twice as a presidential candidate on the Green Party ticket, Nader has now turned away from the Greens to run as ''a true independent.'' How can anyone who spurns a third party as insufficiently pure also call himself a champion of third parties? 
 By rejecting the Greens, Nader has also relinquished even the traces of accountability to a party rank and file that buoyed both the antislavery Republicans and the more conventional third parties. Instead of a clear-cut political program like Lincoln's -- barring the expansion of slavery into the nation's territories -- Nader offers little to differentiate himself from liberal Democrats besides tarter slogans about corporate greed and domination. 
 On ''Meet the Press,'' Nader contemptuously dismissed his liberal critics who have called him a spoiler, charging that such complaints would never arise in Western Europe or Canada. He avoided mentioning how the American winner-take-all system, without proportional representation or a parliament-based executive, creates its own set of rules. Those rules favor the existence of two competing coalition-based parties in national politics. Short of a national crisis like the one that caused the Civil War, they ensure that third parties can be only goads or spoilers. Having renounced the first role, Nader has committed himself to performing the second in living out his grandiose delusions about destroying the Democratic Party.
 If Nader could magically rewrite the United States Constitution and replace it with Italy's, his continuing efforts might gain plausibility. They would at least qualify as rational. But without that -- and without a modern-day parallel to the Fugitive Slave Law or Bleeding Kansas of the 1850's -- he is destined for political oblivion. He may leave behind as his most striking achievement the re-election of George W. Bush -- a man who stands aggressively for everything Nader claims is most corrupt about America. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Jay L. Clendenin
 Polaris)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); SLAVERY (75%); HISTORY (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); LEGISLATION (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Third-Party Moves (US); Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: RALPH NADER (94%) Sean Wilentz; Ralph Nader; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



168 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Private Sector

LENGTH: 1032 words

PERSON: Hector V. Barreto Jr.

HEADLINE: From One Business to 23 Million

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DESPITE his up-by-the-bootstraps credentials, Hector V. Barreto Jr. had a short-lived honeymoon as the first entrepreneur to lead the Small Business Administration.
 In 2001, Mr. Barreto, who grew up in Kansas City, Mo., was hailed as a smart choice to lead the agency, which guarantees loans for small businesses. An energetic and articulate supporter of entrepreneurship, he ran a financial services company with 10 employees in Los Angeles. The Senate, impressed with his promises to reinvigorate the agency, confirmed him by a unanimous vote in late July that year. 
 Less than two months later, he was walking the streets of Lower Manhattan, offering low-interest loans to small businesses after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
 Today, Mr. Barreto, 42, finds himself at the center of a tug-of-war between Capitol Hill and the Bush administration, which has repeatedly cut the budget of the agency even as it faces higher demand for loans. The S.B.A. is the largest single source of loans for the nation's 23 million small businesses, and by its own calculation has helped to create two million jobs since October 2000. 
 Critics say the administration's proposal to cut $119 million, or 15 percent, from the agency's budget and to set it at $678 million for the 2005 fiscal year is a smokescreen for a goal of dismantling it. It would not be the first time it was a target; David A. Stockman, budget director for President Ronald Reagan, proposed doing away with it in 1982. 
 The Bush administration, said Representative Nydia M. Velazquez of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Small Business, is ''looking for the same outcome.'' Instead of declaring its intentions, she said, the White House is ''hiding behind fake budget numbers and proposals that will never work.''
 Nonsense, Mr. Barreto says, and in an interview he defended the proposed budget. Revisions in the agency's most popular loan program will eliminate the need for $100 million, he said, and a proposed 30 percent increase in the overall loan amount the agency can guarantee ''will provide more businesses with the capital needed to start up and expand.'' 
 The agency, he said, guaranteed a record 74,000 loans last year, totaling $11.2 billion, ''with double-digit increases in the percentage of loans to women, Hispanics, African-Americans and Asian-Americans.'' 
 In 2000, Mr. Barreto was co-chairman of George W. Bush's campaign in California, and he often appears with the president at events. Mr. Barreto dismisses rumors that he has gotten into arguments with staff members of the Office of Management and Budget and is thinking of returning to private life. He points out that the average tenure of his 20 predecessors was 18 months -- and that he has beaten it by a year. 
 ''I love what I do,'' he said. 
 The S.B.A. has long been a target of critics of all political stripes. The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, issued a report three years ago criticizing its inefficiencies. But with the economy still wobbling and an election looming, lawmakers in both parties are rallying against the cost cutters.
 ''This is not the time to be sacrificing vital assistance to the very entities that have been putting people to work,'' said Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, at a hearing in February.
 Much of the lawmakers' ire has been directed at the abrupt, although temporary, suspension in January of a popular S.B.A. program -- called Section 7(a) -- that guarantees loans for small companies that have difficulty getting financing. But Mr. Barreto said the administration had nothing to do with the cutoff, which occurred because the number of businesses seeking loans was higher than expected. ''We are a victim of our own success,'' he said. ''We ran out of money, and by law we cannot lend money we don't have.'' 
 For Mr. Barreto, the solution to rising demand for a shrinking pie is found in the small-is-beautiful hypothesis. ''A lot of small businesses don't need a million-dollar loan or even a quarter-million-dollar loan; they need $50,000,'' he said. 
 Under his watch, the average size of S.B.A. loans has fallen by a third, to $164,000 from $250,000. He also says he is streamlining operations, notably by promoting a program called S.B.A. Express that allows banks to process loans and get the money to recipients faster. 
 Another initiative, he says, is the Business Matchmaking Program that, with Hewlett-Packard's help, links small businesses to corporations and government agencies that may need their services or products.
 Mr. Barreto says his zest for small business came from lessons drilled into him by his family. His father, Hector Barreto Sr., who moved to the Midwest from Mexico, and his mother, Mary Louise, a daughter of Mexican immigrants, opened a restaurant in Kansas City. At the age of 9, he began busing tables there. His four siblings worked there, too.
 Later, his parents opened two more restaurants. 
 ''We all pitched in,'' he said. 
 His father expanded into an export-import firm and the construction business, and his son worked in both. ''I didn't know it at the time,'' Mr. Barreto said, ''but I got the bug about being an entrepreneur.''
 FIRST, though, after graduating from Rockhurst College in Kansas City, he spent four years as a South Texas area manager for the Miller Brewing Company. In 1986, he moved to Southern California, where he started Barreto Financial Services. Later, he started a firm to provide technical assistance to small businesses. He now lives in McLean, Va., with his wife, Robin, and three children. 
 So what lies ahead for the S.B.A.? Mr. Barreto's answer is that it will continue to increase its lending. ''That's our bottom line,'' he said. 
 But with the presidential campaign heating up, and a report last week on job creation showing continued weakness in the economy, the agency could become a bit of a political football. President Bush has cited it as an engine of growth; John Kerry, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Small Business Committee, has made a point of saying how he would do things differently.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hector Barreto of the Small Business Administration with Martha Lawson of Capital Flowers in Washington. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (91%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (93%) Small Business Administration

RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (57%) Elizabeth Olson; Hector V Jr (Admr) Barreto; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



169 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 8557 words

HEADLINE: The Jihadi Who Kept Asking Why

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Rubin. 
Elizabeth Rubin is a contributing writer for the magazine. Her most recent article was about an Iraqi architect who worked for Saddam Hussein.

 BODY:

[Intruders in the House of Saud ]
Part I
Shortly before midnight on May 12, 2003, Riyadh, the Saudi capital, was jolted awake by a series of synchronized car bombs that ripped through three residential compounds across the city. Twenty-five people from several nations, including Saudis, were killed. The jolt was psychological as well as physical. Al Qaeda, it seemed, had come home to roost, and not long after the terror attack, Saudis began referring to May 12 as ''our Sept. 11.''
 Until the bombing, denial was officially sanctioned as a collective response to accusations that Saudi Arabia had a bit of a terrorism problem. Fifteen Saudis were among the hijackers who turned American passenger planes into missiles? Impossible, insisted Prince Nayef, the septuagenarian interior minister and younger brother of King Fahd, who has been ruler of Saudi Arabia since 1982 and is one of the dozens of sons of King Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud, who founded the modern-day kingdom in 1932. Only the Zionists benefited from 9/11, the prince told a Kuwaiti reporter in an interview that was later published in the Saudi press in December 2002. Therefore Israeli intelligence must have masterminded the plot. 
 When Saudi intellectuals began worrying aloud that Saudi mosques and schools were fostering hatred of non-Wahhabists among young men, the religious establishment -- which ensures that the kingdom follows a strictly puritanical interpretation of Islamic law -- reacted with righteous anger, as if its social authority were under threat. Prince Nayef defended the religious establishment and blamed instead a foreign import -- the Muslim Brotherhood, the radical Islamic political organization founded in Egypt in the 1920's -- for the kingdom's problems. For years, Saudi Arabia sheltered and embraced the Brotherhood activists, and now, Prince Nayef told the press, the Brotherhood had turned against the Saudis and were destroying the Arab world. 
 As many Saudis themselves will tell you, theirs is not a society accustomed to self-reflection. Critical thinking is discouraged. Obedience to the king is the unwritten constitution of the land; as the clerics say, it's God's law. The Saud dynasty and the Wahhabi clerics mutually reinforce each other's authority. It's been that way since the 18th century, when Muhammad Ibn Saud, a tribal ruler in the untamed deserts of central Arabia, struck a bargain with Muhammad Ibn Abd al-Wahhab, a puritanical religious reformer. They would purge Islam of the idol worshiping that had slipped into Bedouin religious practices, unify the competing tribes and conquer the Arabian peninsula. The Sauds lost and regained power over the centuries, but that religious-political covenant has endured and is the source of today's Saudi system. The royal family rules over politics, security and the economy. The clerics hold sway over things social and cultural while preaching loyalty to the ruler as one of the highest duties of the good Muslim. 
 Under the strains of modernization, unemployment and terrorism, that covenant is beginning to fray. On a recent three-week journey through the kingdom, I heard the word ''reform'' everywhere I went, though no one seemed to agree on exactly what it meant. Much of Saudi society still clings to its conservative ways, fearfully glancing at change as a euphemism for an American cultural invasion. Many of the elderly princes -- the oldest brothers of King Fahd who for more than a quarter century have controlled the Ministries of the Interior and Defense, the National Guard and the Governorships -- are divided about how to change their kingdom to rid it of the extremism that leads to terrorism, without upsetting the powerful Wahhabi clerics who regard reform as apostasy and who legitimize the royal family's power as divine will.
 An unlikely group of onetime religious jihadists have recently stepped into the midst of this debate. They belong to a larger circle of liberals, intellectuals, professors, former Wahhabi scholars, judges and even women who are discussing subjects in the media that were taboo before 9/11 -- questions about terrorism, about Wahhabi discrimination toward Muslims of the Shiite and Sufi sects (whom they consider apostates), about alcohol, about AIDS, about the rights of women to drive and work. 
 The ex-jihadists are fluent in Islam and, more important, in the lingo of the underground terrorists, and they've surfaced from the extremist subculture with a message for the Wahhabi official clerics, the royal family and even their complicit American allies: Wake up. It's you who created us. We are not an aberration. 
Mansour Al-Nogaidan is the most daring and idiosyncratic of these reformists. He is a 33-year-old former radical imam and a columnist for Al Riyadh, one of the largest daily newspapers, controlled by the government, but his writing is often banned. The main target of Mansour's vitriolic critiques for the past three years has been Wahhabism, which he argues is the source of the political and cultural problems in the kingdom. Since Wahhabism is the ideology upon which the royal family has erected its legitimacy, Mansour is indirectly denouncing them. That's the way political dissent operates in the kingdom. If you aim directly at the royal family in public, you are likely to lose your freedoms. But in interviews with the foreign media, Mansour has been far more bold. He has said that if the royal family does not put aside the ideology of Wahhabism and rule more democratically, it will ultimately bring about its own downfall. 
 Mansour is a small, roundish man, with intense, protruding eyes and a gentle voice. He pouts and broods and smiles like a child. He's the vexing kid who never stops asking why. That constant questioning is what got him into Islamic radicalism and got him out if it -- and landed him in prison six times during the last 15 years. 
 He now lives alone in a studio in a small peach-colored building with a marble facade in a suburb of Riyadh. It's sparsely furnished with a bed, desk and a computer. Books that just four years ago he would have considered heretical are now piled up along the wall -- the banned novels of Turki al-Hamad, a liberal reformist from Mansour's hometown, Buraida; ''Religions of the World''; texts by Nietzsche and Habermas; and a book of Michelangelo's art. He also keeps a CD-ROM, ''Fatwas of Ibn Tamaya,'' the 14th-century scholar and eminence grise of Wahhabism, upon whom much of Saudi law is based. Mansour is locked in an intellectual battle with Ibn Taimaya, finding in his fatwas justification for terrorism. Most dear to him these days, however, is a biography of Martin Luther, which surprised and inspired him. For Martin Luther was not what Mansour had expected -- a soft messenger of God. Instead, Mansour discovered that Luther was tough and cruel with his enemies. 
 Mansour himself is attacked on all sides for his raw, brazen writing. I met him in December, when the capital was on high alert for terrorist attacks. Police checkpoints were sprouting up randomly in the middle of traffic. Hotels and government ministries were ringed with concrete barricades. A few weeks earlier, during the fasting month of Ramadan, militants sped through the gates of a residential compound just beneath one of the hilltop royal palaces in an S.U.V. packed with explosives. It detonated and killed 17 mostly foreign Arab workers and their families.
 Mansour had just spent five days in prison for his recent anti-Wahhabist writing, and he told me that he often turns for strength to a story about Luther and Erasmus during the Protestant Reformation. ''When Erasmus told Luther to calm down and be polite,'' Mansour said, ''Luther told Erasmus: this is war.'' 
 Mansour is in a virtual war. Jihadi sympathizers routinely flood his e-mail and cellphone text messages with death threats and insults. Earlier last year, Mansour replied in kind -- calling one jihadi the Arabic word for ''bitch.'' Insults are punishable by lashings under Islamic law, and the recipient of Mansour's retort filed a complaint with the judicial authorities, who are all Wahhabi scholars in law. In fact Mansour's curse was a pretext for the plaintiff and judge to threaten him for his recent heretical writings. When the confrontation came to a head, Mansour was sentenced to 75 lashes. Feeling desperate, alone and defenseless -- Saudis in such cases have no right to an attorney -- Mansour published an Op-Ed essay in the The New York Times. It appeared the day after Thanksgiving, during the festival Id al-fatr, the feast that ends Ramadan fasting. In it he told the world that though the Saudi government was cracking down on terrorists, they were missing the real culprit.
 ''Saudi Arabia is bogged down by deep-rooted Islamic extremism in most schools and mosques,'' he wrote. How can officials claim Saudi society ''loves other nations,'' he asked, when state-sponsored preachers ''continue to curse and call for the destruction of all non-Muslims?'' He appealed to the world ''to help us stand up against our extremist religious culture.'' He dared his fellow Saudis to ''see ourselves the way the rest of the world sees us -- a nation that spawns terrorists -- and think about why that is and what it means.'' Only then ''will we be able to take the first step toward correcting that image and eradicating its roots.'' 
 A few days later, the police showed up at the newsroom of Al Riyadh and ushered Mansour to jail. Mansour had made such criticisms before in various autobiographical essays published in the Saudi press and on popular Saudi Internet sites. But this was different. As Mansour recalled, the judge shouted, ''How did you dare to write in the enemy's newspaper?'' 
 Not everyone in the Saudi establishment wanted Mansour silenced. As Khalil al-Khalil, a prominent expert on Islamic law, told me, ''Mansour has the guts to criticize some of the unquestioned ideas here because he cares about the future of the country.'' Jamal Khashoggi, a former editor of Al Watan, the most progressive newspaper in the country, and now a media consultant to the Saudi ambassador in London, explained: ''Mansour comes from the hard-core camps. He knows their narrow minds. That's what makes the clerics so angry. Every ideological movement hates the breakaway, the traitor.''
 Mansour's views seem to be known throughout Saudi Arabia to anyone who reads. You can hear everything about him these days: that he's a bright young hope, a loser, an apostate. He's hated, adored, written off as an extremist who is now simply embracing the opposite extreme. A Saudi mother with a teenage son told me Mansour's Op-Ed had given her so much hope that she printed it out from the Internet and carries it in her purse to ensure all her friends read it. A year ago, three of the most radically extremist sheiks -- who are independent from the state clergy -- put out the word on the Internet and in mosques that Mansour al-Nogaidan rejected fate (up there with rejecting God) and believed in a new ''humanist'' Islam, and they asked God to destroy him. ''If there is Islam in this country, he must be put to the sword,'' they decreed. Neither the Ministry of the Interior nor the official Wahhabi clerics denounced the death threat. Instead, they banned Mansour from writing.
 Mansour is still on salary at Al Riyadh, though since his Times Op-Ed he cannot publish there, or anywhere else in the kingdom. If he does, the authorities have threatened to imprison him and take away his passport. So in the tradition of dissidents from repressive countries throughout the world, Mansour has chosen to keep his voice alive through the Western media -- both as a matter of liberal principle and as a safeguard against being forgotten and left to languish in prison. 
 In addition to Mansour, there are several writers who have left the Islamic extremist subculture and who are criticizing Wahhabi ideology. They live all over -- in the liberal port city Jidda, the conservative capital Riyadh and the southern mountains of Asir province, where four of the 9/11 hijackers came from. Among them are Khalid al-Ghannami, a cleric for 10 years who now advocates an individual interpretation of religion. There's Abdullah Bejad al-Oteibi and Mashari al-Thaydi, friends of Mansour's from their extremist days, who have rejected their pasts and the terrorist subculture, but who are more loyal than Mansour to the royal family. There's Abdullah Thabit, a poet and dreamer who writes about the beauty of music and poetry and the idiocy of religious restrictions against them. 
 But Mansour is in a category of his own. As Adel al-Toraifi, a political-science student and friend of Mansour's, told me, ''Mansour has personally experienced almost every role in modern Saudi society'' -- from his painful childhood, to his long history with Islamic scholarship, to his experience as an extremist and his political reformation. ''So if you want to understand this period of transition in Saudi Arabia, and the debates about reform, you must study Mansour.''
Mansour was born in 1970 in the Wahhabi heartland town Buraida, a centuries-old prosperous trading post on the caravan route between Kuwait and Mecca, 200 miles north of Riyadh. Today it could almost pass for an American town, with its tall houses, leafy trees and highway strips of gas stations, furniture shops and convenience stores -- except for the salmon-colored sand rustling through the streets and rising into dunes that cushion one side of town. Past the dunes, it's all shrub-dusted desert plains. As the principal town of Al-Qassim province and an oasis rich in agriculture, Buraida has spawned some of the wealthiest, most educated and influential people in the kingdom. Yet it's a conservative city, and one of extremes, the hometown of both the banned liberal novelist Turki al-Hamad and the unrepentant radical sheiks who inspired bin Laden. 
 Mansour grew up during the oil boom years in a typical central Arabian family -- his father, a livestock merchant, had two wives and 11 children; Mansour was a child of the second wife. It was a time of hurtling modernization and decadent prosperity, and Bedouin families were catapulted out of the desert age as new multilane highways and spic-and-span metropoles sprang up, often built by American workers.
 The government promoted education to develop the mostly Bedouin nation.
 The conservative Saudi society, however, was suspicious of this whirlwind of change, and murmurings of cultural resistance were finally given extreme voice in 1979 with the Mecca uprising, a seminal event in modern Saudi history. One November morning, Juhayman al-Oteibi, a fundamentalist preacher helped by a band of wild-bearded, gun-toting tribesmen, seized the Grand Mosque in Mecca and vowed to sweep the kingdom of corruption. Juhayman's complaints had been circulating in his Islamic manifestoes for years. The Saudi dynasty, he declared, was desecrating Islam, making alliances with Christian infidels who were importing their Western values, secular education and women on TV; the royal family was squandering billions on private jets, gambling, drinking and cavorting in loose European resorts. Even the royal governor of Mecca, cried Juhayman, was an alcoholic and a womanizer. 
 The mosque siege pierced the royal family where it was most vulnerable. Juhayman's accusations were mostly true. And the royal family's Islamic credentials rested on its control of the holiest sites in the Islamic world. If it couldn't secure them, who needed the royal family? After Juhayman held the mosque for two weeks, the police raided the site, and some 200 Juhaymanis and policemen were killed in a shootout that ended the siege. Two months later, 63 captured rebels, including Juhayman, were publicly beheaded. 
 Though Saudis did not forgive Juhayman for vandalizing the Grand Mosque, many did sympathize with his preachings. And most Saudis today will tell you what I heard from Mohammed al-Odadi, a Georgetown graduate, who is the secretary general of the tourism board in Asir province, where many of the rebel tribesmen hailed from: ''The royal family cut off Juhayman's head, but implemented his entire agenda. They said what the hell: it won't mess with our power. Let the society have what it wants.'' In effect, the royal family let the Wahhabi clerics take back the keys to the kingdom's mores and social development.
 Mansour came into his teenage years just as an officially sponsored ''Islamic Awakening'' was flourishing. Girls and boys had always been segregated, but now they had even less access to one another. Women were to be de-Westernized: religious vigilantes began enforcing the black head-to-toe abaya and even the triple-layered black veil for the face. (Today educated Saudis jokingly refer to their female compatriots as B.M.O.'s, or black moving objects.) Up went thousands of Koranic schools, and after-school religious-awakening classes were organized -- in mosques, school libraries and desert camping grounds. Shops and libraries were stacked with cassettes of famous preachers narrating stories of the prophet Muhammad and early Islam. Boys collected the tapes by the hundreds, trading them like baseball cards or album covers. It was called the ''culture of the cassette.'' Meanwhile the whole country was mobilized to support the jihad to drive the Soviets from Afghanistan. Recruiting offices offered cheap tickets for young Saudis willing to fight the Soviet infidels. The United States, too, encouraged the jihadis -- they knew that holy warriors were not afraid to die -- and they persuaded the royal family to match their financing of the Afghan and Arab mujahedeen at close to half a billion dollars a year until 1989, when the Soviets withdrew. 
 Mansour was a good student, but around the time he was 14, he fell into brooding spells as he wrestled with questions about the prophet, the universe and whether the Koran was really the word of God. He could bear no distractions as he struggled and began withdrawing from public school, attending more lectures at the mosque. His doubts caused him physical pain. ''I was terrified I was going to die in doubt and go to hell,'' Mansour told me in December in the lobby cafe of the Inter/Continental Hotel -- one of the Riyadh spots where he feels safe. It was cold in the city, and he wore a gray wool thobe (the ankle-length shirt worn by Saudi men), and a red-and-white kaffiyeh that he fidgeted with as we spoke over tea and French fries. 
 He's soft-spoken but passionate and often ends his answers with a question. He told me he was so disturbed in his teens by theological questions that he plunged into books on Islam and Wahhabism. He stopped speaking to people. His school grades dropped. He didn't care. If he could just calm his mind and reach a state of certain faith, he'd be saved. A neighbor told him about a sheik who gave good lectures after evening prayer. He started going twice a day. 
 One day in the mosque, another sheik, a well-known holy man named Abdul Karim Ibn Saleh al-Hamid, grabbed Mansour by the arm and fixed him with his eyes. He had been a translator at Saudi Aramco, the oil company, but had left the business and more or less turned his back on civilization. He rode a horse and buggy and lived in a mud house. He'd forsworn music and television and man-made laws, international conventions and traffic rules. He had joined the Salafiyya, a radical Islamic movement that models itself on the original followers of Muhammad. The Salafi aspired to return to a mythical time of purity associated with the prophet before, as they believe, Muslims deviated from God's plan. As Muhammad promises the followers of Islam: ''I am leaving two things with you that as long as you hold fast to them, you will never go astray: the Koran and the Sunna of His Messenger'' -- the Sunna are the sayings attributed to Muhammad. The Salafi, literalists and fundamentalists, find in the Koran and the prophet's sayings a road map for life and death, and in some cases jihad. 
 Al-Hamid told Mansour that he had a future as a sheik. He talked to him about God's love and told him that to enter paradise, he should abandon the public schools, which are forbidden by God and had filled his head with heathen values. ''I was already so close to their way of living,'' Mansour said. ''They only lived for studying. They were so simple, so reserved. They were so appealing to me, and I thought maybe that's the way to happiness. But I was also so afraid.'' 
 Mansour told me that he then dropped out of school and told his family he wanted to become an Islamic scholar. His father warned Mansour he'd be on his own. His mother wept. His brothers threatened to beat and imprison him. He was forced to move out. But secretly proud of his son's choice, Mansour's father sent him $350 a month until he died a year later.
 Mansour moved to a Salafiyya community of about 300 families in a separate Buraida neighborhood with its own schools. Once he joined the Salafi, adopting their modest dress and long beards, Mansour wouldn't see or speak with most of his family members because they did not practice the true Islam. He'd also become dirt poor. After his father's death, all the family assets went to the first wife's sons, Mansour told me. 
 Mansour was a purist and epistemologist in his approach. As he wended his way deeper into Islam, whenever he bumped into an inconsistency, he had to stop and crush it. He was constantly skirmishing with the gray-haired government clerics. If Islam's rules were the word of God, he thought, then they must be taken literally. ''Our official sheiks thought my activities were madness and would turn the people against us,'' Mansour recalled with some pleasure. ''I said if our thoughts are right, we must tell the people.'' 
 At 18, he published his first opinion, objecting to congratulatory ceremonies for boys who'd memorized the Koran, or for men entering the priesthood, because Muhammad never practiced such rituals. The state-sponsored clerics (who run the justice system) threw the young upstart in jail for questioning their practices. Mansour sobbed, certain he was going to be hanged, but he wasn't, and he emerged defiant. 
 Mansour could not glaze over the contradictions between what was taught in the Wahhabi creed and what was practiced in the kingdom. At 19 he published a fatwa against the 1989 World Youth Cup in Saudi Arabia - kaffirs (infidels) should not be allowed to compete in the Holy Land; and furthermore football is haram (forbidden). He got 55 days behind bars. Who was he to oppose the royal family's games? 
 Back in the Buraida mosque, he preached to his flock to take their children out of the infidel public schools. And back he went to jail. By now he was making a name for himself in Buraida and circles beyond. In a country where politics was forbidden, religion was the great equalizer. And the mosque was a public arena where you could prove your mettle and ''box'' with the older sheiks, as one of Mansour's friends put it. If you had talent to move an audience, if you dared to speak against the government, people would linger and listen. 
 In 1991, Osama bin Laden, who had visited Buraida to lecture on jihad, called Mansour to Jidda. But when Mansour got there, he was apprehensive,he told me, and had no idea whom to contact. After a week or so, he received a letter of apology from some associates of bin Laden's, saying that their leader had to flee the country before the government cracked down on him for fomenting rebellion, but the associates said they hoped to keep up the connection. Mansour was disappointed. The government had refused to give him a passport, and he would most likely never meet the then-Saudi folk hero. 
Mansour was maturing into a charismatic preacher, indoctrinating young boys and commuting between Buraida and its Riyadh counterpart, Suweidi, a neighborhood south of the city -- busy, dense and conservative. Cigarettes weren't sold in shops. There Mansour met Mashari al-Thaydi and Abdullah Bejad, like-minded Islamists whose families migrated to Suweidi when they were both 9.
 Mashari is a small Buraida man like Mansour, but more cautious and guarded. Now a rising columnist in Jidda at The Middle East Journal, a daily newspaper owned by members of the royal family, Mashari remembers the day when a mosque librarian handed him a recording of a famous Kuwaiti imam, who preached a harrowing tale of massacre two years earlier in Syria. The imam told how the secular President Hafez al Assad exacted revenge against Islamic insurgents of the Muslim Brotherhood by slaughtering 10,000 Muslims. ''I couldn't sleep that night,'' Mashari said. The tape and the Salafi atmosphere percolating about Suweidi's mosques and student hangouts ''made us all Islamically excited and on our toes,'' he recalled.
 Abdullah Bejad grew up on Suweidi's streets, skipping school, getting into fights, mocking the religious geeks for their dourness and cowardice. He had one secret passion. He consumed novels by Alexandre Dumas and Victor Hugo, whatever he could sneak under his thobe past his father, who thought reading made you crazy. Until one of those mesmerizing religious teachers fixed on him. ''He was funny and brave, not how I expected religious people to be,'' recalled Abdullah Bejad when I met him at his home in Suweidi. Abdullah Bejad was intrigued. The teacher made religion so easy and rewarding, and he felt specially selected. He discovered the transporting power of the Koran. And he began to memorize God's words. Soon he didn't need the teacher. He hooked up with Mashari and Mansour and the flourishing Salafiyya movement, which by the late 80's was becoming something of a cult.
 The Salafiyya teachers were sweeping up young men all over the kingdom. They went for the softest targets -- the youth in conservative central Arabia, and in places like the southern, mountainous province Asir, which was poor and neglected by the government. The Asiris were simple, with fierce tribal loyalties, and practiced a moderate Islam. Men and women mingled; women wore flowered dresses and simple straw hats or head scarves -- until the influx of the Salafiyya teachers. The Asiris heeded their message, and as Mohammed al-Odadi, the Asir tourism official, said, ''They became more Catholic than the pope.'' Today Asir is best known around the world for producing 4 of the 15 Saudi hijackers.
 One of those scooped up by the religious teachers in the late 80's was a poet and novelist from Asir named Abdullah Thabet. Now he's the image of apostasy -- long sideburns, no beard, jeans, leather jacket, cigarettes. I drove with him around the province one day as a Muzak version of Lionel Richie's ''Say You, Say Me'' strained on his old Ford speakers. ''You can't have a girlfriend in this society,'' he told me. ''It's too expensive to marry, and as a young man, all you're thinking about is sex. So the 'teachers' would tell us, Don't worry, no need now, when you kill yourself you'll have plenty of girls in heaven.'' Unlike Mansour, who shaped his life into a narrative of intellectual evolution, Abdullah Thabet simply remembers himself as a PlayStation character in the grip of a sinister hand. ''If there were girls in our high school,'' he said. ''I never would have joined those groups.'' 
 Lost in a family of 11 siblings, Abdullah Thalbit was a lonely child dreaming of escape. ''The religious teachers say run away with us, and go to heaven,'' he explained. ''They lift you out of this society where it's so difficult to find kindness and friendship. They offer you unconditional love, brotherhood, money, cars, education and jobs -- because the religious people control all the jobs here,'' he went on to say. ''The first year they teach you to love each other at weekend picnics and summer camping trips, where they're looking for the talented ones. They teach you to reject your family. Then they give you books and lessons and program your mind to build a new country like the old Islamic caliphate. They teach you that you're the only good Muslims, the others are not.'' 
 Despite Islam's emphasis on modesty, what was so compelling to smart young men like Abdullah Thabet, Mansour and the others was the idea that they among all other Muslims were the real keepers of the faith. It gave them a feeling of superiority. As Khalid al-Ghannami, a friend of Mansour's and a former cleric who gave up preaching and adores Martin Scorsese films, explained to me, all of them began to believe they were those special Strangers whom the prophet speaks about. ''The prophet said: 'Islam began as a stranger and will return to being a stranger. So Tuba''' -- a tree in Paradise and the best part of heaven -- '''is for the strangers,''' Khalid said. ''The people then asked the prophet: 'Who are the strangers?' And the prophet said, 'Those who do the good deeds when everybody else does not.''' 
 As Abdullah Thabet and I were winding through Asir's jagged, rock-crested mountains, we rounded an outcropping, and all along the stone banks there appeared hundreds of baboons, some of them fornicating, masturbating, howling and laughing. Thabet slowed down, lingering in their exuberance. ''I want their life,'' he said, and drove off. 
 We rode on to a bleak rocky plateau between two hills where for seven years he used to camp out with the Salafi. ''They gave me everything I wanted -- books, travel, prayer. All the things I missed in my family I found with them. I loved them. So I trusted them, and believed in them. I would have done anything.''
 The intellectual godfather for all these young jihadis was the Egyptian philosopher Sayyid Qutub, and the religious teachers liberally doled out Qutub's writings. He was a prolific author and political Islamist with a simple message: the Islamic world is in crisis. The Christians and Jews have the upper hand. We need a small group of true Muslims who will usher in a new era of Islamic purification. Executed for supposedly plotting to overthrow the Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser, Qutub was an Islamic Che Guevara and a model for the young Salafi. 
 But it wasn't until Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1990, and President Bush vowed to drive him out and stationed American troops on Saudi soil, that the young men embraced political violence. ''It was the first time I listened to a radio,'' Mansour told me. ''It was like an earthquake. I began to meet different kinds of religious men, political sheiks.'' Unlike Mansour's mentor, al-Hamid, in his Buraida mud hut, these sheiks were from a modern Islamic political movement. ''And they said we need to change reality now.'' 
 The radical sheiks attracted enormous followings. They were educated men with haunted eyes, like Safar al-Hawali, who later praised bin Laden for Sept. 11. They skewered the royal family for allowing infidel soldiers on Muslim soil, for seeking aid not from God but from America, who'd come to steal oil and destroy Islam. 
 Abdullah Bejad and Mashari shared a house in Suweidi that became an infamous hangout for anti-government Salafis. Mansour, who was still wretchedly poor, stayed there on a few of his trips to Riyadh. From the roof they would watch Iraqi Scud missiles fly overhead. In the living room they spent hours debating what kinds of political activism were Islamically legal.
 Mashari decided to take action by boarding a plane to get military training in Afghanistan. ''We all believed that the infidels were here because the Islamic world was militarily weak,'' Mashari said. He returned after a month and caught up with Mansour and the others. ''We felt like everything was so polluted and poisoned that talking and educating wasn't enough. We had to get physically active,'' Mashari recalled. 
 As always, Mansour was obsessed with religious hypocrisy. ''If you ask any sheik, he will say the Western values sold in video stores are forbidden in Islam,'' Mansour said. ''But the government sheiks won't give you the right to destroy them. So we decided to make our own decrees.'' In 1992, in the middle of the night, Mashari and Mansour and several others who knew how to handle explosives staked out the biggest and most popular video store in Riyadh and firebombed it. Up in a blaze went all those American movies. Inspired by their success, Mansour got the idea to destroy a women's center in his hometown that catered to widows and the poor. ''We thought it wanted to free women, that it was just pretending to be a charity,'' Mansour recalled. Late one night, he and several other Salafiyya activists slipped inside the charity. Mansour rifled through the director's office to convince himself that they were doing the right thing. All he could find were medical supplies and aid for widows. ''I was surprised that some of my relatives were so poor they were taking money from the charity. I felt bad, but ideology took over.''
 Partly in response to American pressure, and partly out of fear that their radicals were getting out of control, the royal family began to crack down on extremists while still allowing young men to be dispatched to wage jihad in Afghanistan's civil war. Nearly a year after the firebombing, the police picked up a Yemeni student who was sleeping in the Suweidi house where Mashari and Abdullah Bejad lived. He was accused of smuggling weapons. Then the police raided the place and rounded up everyone. ''For three days they beat me until the blood ran to the floor,'' Abdullah Bejad said. ''They wanted me to confess that we gave the Yemeni money to buy weapons to assassinate royal family members and blow up things, that we met in the desert at a training camp where we fired machine guns.'' Though Abdullah Bejad had nothing to do with the Yemeni or the firebombings, he was locked up along with Mashari. 
 Mansour was arrested and confessed to the firebombings, which he said were a matter of principle. He argued with the judges, quoting Islamic law and the sheiks who preached against Western values. He invoked a fatwa of the 14th-century scholar of Wahhabism, Ibn Tamiya, who had decreed that if the governor does not change or clean up places of corruption, the people have the right to do so. The judge wasn't interested in Mansour's scholarship. ''They said, 'It's not your right to make such decisions. It's up to the government.''' And he sentenced Mansour to 16 years in prison. 
In prison Mansour, Mashari and Abdullah Bejad slowly began to question their actions, and to read books that exposed them to more moderate interpretations of Islam. Mansour told me about a Jordanian author he read who raised the possibility that the Koran is not a living thing, but just a book. It shocked him. Their intellectual transformations, however, were just beginning. As Mashari put it: ''It's like a glass of water. You can't find the first drop.''
 After a year and nine months, the cells were unlocked and Abdullah Bejad, Mashari and even Mansour were sent home. Mansour remained an imam in a Riyadh mosque, with one foot still in the world of the jihadis who wanted him to go to Afghanistan and be their sheik and the other in a more modern world, exploring new ideas. 
 Abdullah Bejad and Mashari were lost and confused. It was the mid-90's, and the kingdom was in the grip of an Islamist rebellion. American soldiers still hadn't pulled out. The royal family, at the instigation of the United States, imprisoned radical sheiks and rescinded bin Laden's Saudi citizenship. Then, in 1995, the jihadis struck back. A car bomb exploded at a National Guard training center in Riyadh, killing five Americans and two Indians. Prodded again by the United States, the government swept up hundreds of radicals. Among them was Mansour. 
 Alone again in his prison cell, Mansour began to retrace the genesis of his religious odyssey. When his sister came to visit, he asked her to bring books on Sufism (a strain of Islamic mysticism considered heretical by the Wahhabis) and by authors of Western philosophy and history, like Will Durant and Thomas Carlyle. Mansour passed through an intellectual paradigm shift, reading books that based their arguments on historical research. ''Before, everything we learned was by ideology,'' he told me. Wahhabism does not believe in history except insofar as it illuminates God's plan. Like a pathologist, he conducted a dissection of his own thinking. He questioned two of the defining tenets of Wahhabism: ''loyalty and dissociation,'' or loving Muslims just like you and holding hatred in your heart for Jews, Christians and Muslims not like you; and takfir, the practice of accusing fellow Sunnis of apostasy, which is a crime punishable by death. 
 Once the doubt crept in, it took on a logic of its own, spiraling through every stage of his life: if Salafism was flawed, then Wahhabism was flawed, and then so, too, were Islamic history and all the assumptions he had made about the universe. He couldn't stop. 
 As Adel al-Toraifi, Mansour's close friend explained, Mansour didn't change because he wanted music and wine and women. ''There is no politics in Mansour,'' he said. ''He didn't change because he found a new ideology. He changed from thinking deep inside Islam.''
In the wake of the 1995 Riyadh bombing, Mashari and Abdullah Bejad feared that they, too, would be arrested. By then they knew the routine. They'd heard about two of their friends who were chained to the prison ceilings, stripped, whipped with handcuffs and encouraged to confess to exactly what the authorities wanted. Mashari and Abdullah Bejad made other plans, they told me. They grabbed some money and took off for the Yemeni border. 
 Abdullah Bejad showed me a selection of passport photos he had made up in various guises -- change the headdress slightly and you're a Kuwaiti or a Yemeni. A little creativity and anyone can disappear in this region. Especially in Yemen, where they bought fake Yemeni passports. Off went the two newborn Yemenis to Damascus, Aden and finally Amman, thinking they'd stay a few weeks till the dust settled. 
 In fact, they had no desire to go home, they told me. They'd rented an apartment in Amman. They admired King Hussein's internal politics. They attended lectures by Islamic scholars who weren't Wahhabis, listened to music, read about human rights, traveled to Qatar and Turkey. They said they'd never been so happy in their lives. 
 ''We were reborn in Jordan,'' said Abdullah Bejad. ''It was the first time I could think freely with no one supervising or watching over me. I realized the community that cultivated me had controlled my mind, always talking about stability, stability. 'The steady man is right. The right man never changes his mind.''' 
 The mantra fell apart in snow-covered Amman that winter. ''I felt a happiness I'd never felt. I had no conflict between what I thought and what I said. I promised if I went back to Saudi I wouldn't let it go,'' Abdullah Bejad said. Each felt ashamed about the changes they were experiencing and hid their activities from the other. Mashari was reading novels by Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Naguib Mahfouz. Without telling Abdullah Bejad, he went to watch ''Braveheart'' and ''Lawrence of Arabia,'' which he adored. One scene in particular deeply moved him, for it was so contrary to everything he'd been taught. This is how he remembered it: 
 Lawrence asks Sharif Ali why they left a man behind in the desert. Sharif Ali says they don't have enough water, and they'll die if they wait for him. Lawrence spins around and heads back for the man, as Sharif Ali yells, ''It's fate, Lawrence.'' Lawrence returns exhausted and dehydrated, the man in tow, and now it's Sharif Ali's turn to ask why. 
 Lawrence replies, ''That is also fate.''
In 1998, Mashari and Abdullah Bejad did go home, quietly, to Suweidi, where they lay low. Mashari told me that he wrote a narrative explaining his actions to the Ministry of the Interior, and had to serve only 30 days for fleeing the country illegally. Abullah Bejad appealed to his tribal chief to intervene with the royals, and he got three months. Mansour was released around the same time. Soon after, they began their new careers writing in the newspapers. But it wasn't until after Sept. 11 that Mansour stepped out and broke the taboo against attacking the state religion, naming ''Wahhabism as the source of terrorist thinking'' and ''Salafism as the carrier of the terrorism ideology.'' The response of the government clerics was swift. He was banned from writing. 
 Intellectuals and reformists in Saudi Arabia have now examined this Salafiyya movement and used these young radicals as examples to set forth a theory that traces the lineage of today's terrorists back to the early 20th century ''Brothers'' -- Bedouin tribesmen who embraced a Wahhabi revivalism so ferocious they were happy to die killing or converting other tribes as they conquered the peninsula. All Saudis know the story's ending: the Brothers revolted against the king who'd breathed life into them, and he slaughtered most of them. But in the 80's, the royal family resurrected the spirit of those ''Brothers'' during the ''Islamic Awakening,'' and exploited the resulting Salafiyya movement to spread Wahhabism around the world through mosques and Koranic schools and jihad. ''The famous leaders of the foreign jihadi groups in Chechnya, Afghanistan, Bosnia were Saudi,'' Adel al-Toraifi maintained. Bin Laden's top lieutenant, Ayman al-Zawahiri ''depends on fatwas from Wahhabi ideology. We must be honest. Wahhabism was a creator of violence since the beginning of its history.'' Yesterday's pious heroes are today's terrorists. 
 As unfathomable as it may be given the horrific events of Sept. 11, many Saudis -- even those who are progressive -- feel an ambivalent sympathy for this jihadi generation left over from Afghanistan -- militants, not unlike the Vietnam veterans, who have been hung out to dry by their government, unable to readjust to civilian life and left to stew in their habits of violence. 
 ''The strange thing,'' Abdullah Bejad said, ''is that the bombers are victims and killers at the same time.'' 
Mashari and Abdullah Bejad have evolved into accepted voices in the media -- too accepted, some intellectuals and reformists say. Abdullah Bejad now belongs to a liberal Islamist circle of intellectuals, judges and former radicals who are trying to position themselves as a bridge between the government and the radical sheiks who rebelled against the royal family in the 90's. Mashari has found a role at The Middle East Journal as a critic of radicalism but a loyalist to the government. 
 In private, say Western-educated elites, reformists, Islamist reformers and even conservatives outside the cities, it is the royal family that must change. The leaders are old and out of touch with one of the fastest-growing populations in the world, most of whom are under 25. The princes are siphoning off the country's riches. There is no accounting of public funds. The welfare state -- or rather the royal dispensation system -- is collapsing, crime and unemployment are rising. ''It's an old political system like the Soviet system,'' one critic told me. ''We have one party, one ruler, corrupt judges, and all we're supposed to do is praise the government.''
 Many in the royal family are aware that the kingdom must evolve. In December, Crown Prince Abdullah, the king's half brother and the royal thought to be the most reform-minded, convened a National Dialogue on extremism in Mecca -- an unusual event at which Wahhabi clerics were forced to listen to Shiites, Sufis and even women. But the royal family works in opaque ways. Crown Prince Abdullah, who is the most likely heir to the throne, talks about the need to change the education system, while Prince Nayef, the interior minister, finances both the much-loathed religious police, who drive around in new American jeeps preventing vice and promoting virtue, and those in the interior ministry who keep a vigilant eye on the universities, ensuring they toe the Wahhabi line. Are the princes working at cross-purposes? 
 Few know. What is known is that every prince has his fief, while the kingdom, as Mansour put it, is like an orchestra without a conductor. King Fahd suffered a stroke in 1995 and has been a mostly absent leader. By all accounts he can barely recognize his family members. Yet the question of succession is unresolved. And as long as the kingdom has no conductor, little will change, except that the religious radicals embedded within the establishment will keep seizing more ground -- a reality confirmed by engineers, religious professors and civil servants whom I met in Buraida, Asir, Jidda and Riyadh. 
 Shortly before Crown Prince Abdullah held his National Dialogue, a petition written primarily by Islamic reformists advocating a constitutional monarchy was submitted to the crown prince and signed by about 300 people -- mostly Islamists, including Abdullah Bejad, along with some liberals. Some of the princes were apoplectic and called the petition a treason. The signers responded with their own outrage. ''Seventy-five percent of countries in the world participate in planning their future,'' an angry professor who was one of the petition's authors ranted to me one night. ''All we are saying is we must have a role in our future. The royal family wants us just to drink camel's milk, ride dune buggies and sit by the fire. After a time you begin to go mad. When people realize no conferences or resolutions will get any results, they are going to do something primitive. And if things go worse here, America will be in trouble, too.''
 The reformists urged Mansour to sign the petition, but he refused. He objected to the fact that the Islamists had infused the document with far too much religion, that it was weak on human rights and democracy and women. Though he complains of feeling like a pariah, Mansour has chosen to fight alone for his principles. Other Saudis who abandoned the Salafiyya movement share the isolation. Abdullah Thabet, the poet in Asir, told me that back in the late 90's, after years of training him to become part of the new generation of religious organizers, the Salifiyya teachers discovered through informers (his friends) that he was reading Hemingway and Hugo and an Arabic Communist philosopher and that he was writing and reading love poetry -- absolute heresy. They beat him mercilessly. ''They said choose: poetry or us.'' He cried for days, not wanting to lose that solidarity. But Abdullah Thabet needed music and poetry more than the harsh Wahhabi creed. Now that he has broken the spell and criticizes Wahhabism, openly writes poetry, advocates women's rights and the teaching of music and painting in school, his parents say they think he's an infidel, and his former Islamic brothers threaten to kill him -- as they did when they saw him with me outside an Asir restaurant.
 Khalid al-Ghannami, a former cleric, is constantly harassed by other teachers and education officials who accuse him of spreading secular ideas and art forms (like music) at the school where he teaches in a poor suburb of Riyadh. His son is taunted for his father's ''fall'' from cleric to secularist. It's true, Khalid now reads books like Conrad's ''Heart of Darkness,'' where he has discovered metaphors for individualism in Kurtz's rejection of the colonial project. 
 In mid-December, when the authorities released Mansour from prison for publishing his Op-Ed essay, they made one demand: that Mansour not publicize the incident. That night he went home and posted the whole affair in dramatic prose on a popular Arabic Internet site. But that is the last word he has published, because he doesn't want to return to jail. 
 With anti-American sentiment at its apex, Mansour has suffered from the perception that he was looking to America for help when he published his Op-Ed essay. ''I wanted the world to stand beside us and bring the mirror close up,'' he told me. ''But the community doesn't want this.'' 
 The isolation is bruising for Mansour. ''I feel like I am in a community where everyone hates me,'' he explained. His mother, who adores him, is silently disappointed by his transformation, he says, and by his Sufi understanding of Islam that ''it's enough to have the spiritual flame inside our hearts.'' In other words, organized religion is not necessary, nor can he stand its hypocrisy. ''If you ask our sheiks, Can we marry a Christian or Jewish woman, they will say, 'Yes, and you can live together in love, but deep in your heart you must hate her.' How can you divide your heart? Human beings cannot accept such contradictions. Yet that is at the core of our culture.''
 Mansour has paid a heavy personal price for his unbridled tongue. ''I wanted to marry a girl who was close to me, so beautiful, so intellectual,'' he said. ''She begged me not to publish my thoughts until we married. I said there's no difference. But she was afraid her brothers would be shocked and refuse, and that's what happened. I haven't heard from her since the New York Times article.''
 When I asked Mansour if he envisions some kind of democracy in Saudi Arabia, he thought for a while and said: ''A Buraida philosopher once said: 'If you bring Queen Elizabeth to rule in Yemen, she will rule like Imam Ahmad, one of the most radical religious leaders of Yemen. And if you bring Imam Ahmad to England, he will rule like Queen Elizabeth.' The culture and society will dictate the way you rule. We hear talk about democracy. But if we apply democracy now, we'll ride it like we ride camels. Democracy needs a liberal culture. In the beginning we need freedom, we need different parties to have their rights and a culture that allows people to be represented.'' He implies that the only way to ensure that parties do not bring about a Taliban-like government is to separate state and mosque. ''As Voltaire said, 'No freedom to the enemies of freedom.''' 
 When he was still allowed to publish, Mansour advocated rights for women and the persecuted Shiites and Sufis. All of these issues, he argues, hark back to the battle he has been waging since his days as a religious extremist. ''The core of what I used to write is that no one owns the truth,'' he said. His fight is with the uncritical, ideological religious education inculcated in Saudi society. 
 For all the thousands of children who have memorized the holy book at Koranic schools, it can make for a wonderful companion to carry through life. But it's also a dangerous tool. The emotional power of those divine lyrics, the soaring language chanted in half tones and minor-key strains can be overwhelming. As one of the younger generation of princes desperate for reform told me, ''Without the proper guidance it can get out of control.'' And what if you deliberately do not teach a child critical thinking, if you stress only the verses of rage, threats of damnation and the awe that compels men to kill the infidels? ''Who is guilty, the son who stabs his neighbor?'' Mansour asked. ''Or the father who everyday told the son that his neighbor is a devil with no human values, that he must be killed?'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Conversion Experience: For Mansour al-Nogaidan, the road away from extremism led to this studio in Riyadh and to books he once considered heretical.
Heir Apparent: Crown Prince Abdullah, seated, convened a National Dialogue on extremism. He is thought to be the most reform-minded of the Saudi royals.
Mansour: today and, above left ,as a child. His life story has been the story of Saudi Arabia during this period of transition. Will the country take the next step with him? (right photograph by Mansour Al-Nogaidan)
Growing up: in Saudi Arabia can mean either studying the Koran (left, in Asir, the province that was home to 4 of 15 Saudi 9/11 hijackers) or shouting across the lines of official sex segregation (male teenagers driving by a family picnic outside Riyadh).
Houses of Saud Above: Prince Muhammad with his children at their home in Riyadh. Right, top: Prince Sultan bin Muhammad bin Saud al-Kabir, a cousin of the king. Bottom: Prince Faisal bin Satam, 30, a nephew of the king and a Harvard graduate, checking his text messages.
 The Newer Finer Things: Abdullah Bejad, a former radical Islamist who now espouses moderate views, at his mother's house with his niece. (All other photographs by Lynsey Addario/Corbis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICS (86%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); HIJACKING (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TEXT MESSAGING (59%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (54%) Islam; Biographical Information; Terrorism; News and News Media

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%) Elizabeth Rubin; Mansour Al- Nogaidan

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (91%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); GULF STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EGYPT (79%) Saudi Arabia; Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



170 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: Are Peanuts No Longer Enough?

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
NO-FRILLS efficiency, cheap seats and a few laughs thrown in. That has always been the hallmark of Southwest Airlines, whose flight attendants still entertain passengers by telling jokes on board. For its first three decades, that formula propelled it to consistent profitability, even as bigger airlines stumbled and smaller ones sputtered and spun out of business.
 But lately, the grins have begun to fade. The low-fare market that Southwest once dominated has become mighty crowded, above and below the altitude where the airline flies, as more and more competitors take aim at passengers for whom thrift, not comfort, has become a primary concern. 
 A whole crop of low-fare airlines -- from JetBlue to Ted, which was started last month by United -- are offering cheap tickets as well as frills like trendy cocktails that are very un-Southwest. At the same time, traditional airlines are reducing fares and offering premiums to attract bargain hunters. ''Entire divisions of airlines have been amassed to do battle with Southwest,'' said Gary C. Kelly, its chief financial officer. 
 All that is forcing Southwest to rethink. It is considering moves that might have been blasphemous at the company just a few years ago: adding frills like in-flight entertainment systems and expanding its fleet beyond its trusty Boeing 737 jets. Southwest executives say no firm decisions have been made, and they give every impression that life will fundamentally be the same at the airline known for its old mustard-and-ketchup-colored planes. 
 Even as it wrangles over contract issues with its flight attendants' union, Southwest says its secret weapon remains its affable employees -- and not just because they have become the stars of the reality TV show, ''Airline,'' on the A&E cable channel. ''There hasn't been a carrier that has been able to match our people in spirit and energy and enthusiasm over the long haul,'' said Southwest's president, Colleen C. Barrett.
 Still, Ms. Barrett said, Southwest cannot become complacent if it wants to remain the low-fare leader. ''We have had such a good successful run that I'm sure there are pockets of people out there who think we can't do any wrong,'' she said. The airline is both flattered and sobered by the low-fare invaders, added its chief executive, James F. Parker. ''It's kind of like being the Super Bowl champion. It's hard to defend that title,'' Mr. Parker said.
 In fact, Southwest is wading into what might be considered the equivalent of a playoff game. On May 9, it begins service from Philadelphia, the first city it has added to its routes since October 2001. The move is also Southwest's first into a city dominated by another airline since it started flights from Baltimore in 1993.
 Then, as now, Southwest is encroaching on the turf of US Airways. Last time around, it muscled US Airways into a full-fledged retreat, leaving Southwest to dominate Baltimore service. 
 THIS time, it may not be so easy. US Airways, scrambling for its financial life, has vowed to fight back in what could be its last stand. A year after it emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, US Airways is trying to persuade unions to give it a third round of contract concessions, so it can stave off Southwest and other low-fare rivals, and remake itself as a leaner airline.
 US Airways accounts for 68 percent of flights from Philadelphia, one of its three hubs. As Southwest approaches, offering one-way fares as low as $29, US Airways is adding more flights to the cities that Southwest plans to serve from Philadelphia and is vowing to match its fares on routes where the two battle head to head.
 But Philadelphia has extra meaning for Southwest. It is near the hometown of its legendary chairman, Herbert D. Kelleher, who once dressed in a chicken suit to draw attention to Southwest, the upstart airline he founded in Dallas in 1972.
 Mr. Kelleher grew up across the river in Haddon Heights, N.J., and his first job was as a paperboy for the old Philadelphia Bulletin. But Southwest's move into Philadelphia is being directed by Mr. Parker, who succeeded Mr. Kelleher as chief executive in 2001.
 Mr. Parker has been known to joke that his personality is a 40-watt bulb next to Mr. Kelleher's klieg light. But he has inherited Mr. Kelleher's keen sense of what customers will pay for. In Mr. Kelleher's day, that was low fares -- even if that meant no assigned seats and no meals on board. 
 Mr. Parker and his Southwest management team must now determine what the airline must add to keep passengers -- or if it needs to add anything at all. ''I don't know where it will take us,'' Mr. Parker said.
 For hints, he need look only at JetBlue, which has shaken the industry by stirring up a mix that includes low fares and in-flight entertainment systems, installed in the backs of seats, that allow passengers to watch television programs and listen to music. Thanks to JetBlue, in-flight systems have become the norm on its low-fare rivals, including Ted, started last month, and Song, the Delta Air Lines low-fare service that will celebrate its first birthday next month. 
 Each of those start-ups has gone further in the frills department than JetBlue, which still does not offer meals. On Song, passengers can buy a variety of snacks, including pricey chocolates from Dylan's Candy Bar, a Manhattan shop. On Ted, there is even an official beer, Foster's Lager, and passengers can buy souvenirs like a stuffed bear named -- what else? -- Ted.
 The newcomers have created an in-flight atmosphere far different from the frugal one at Southwest, where the only thing that passengers can bring home for their children is a bag of peanuts. Indeed, some industry analysts say Southwest could eschew the extras and remain its no-frills self, allowing its low-fare and traditional rivals to fight over the same middle ground. But if it guesses wrong, customers could defect and market share could fall.
 Unlike some new entries in the low-fare field, which could create their approaches from scratch, Southwest would be layering any amenities over a structure whose foundation is frugality. In fact, Mr. Kelly argues that the airline can afford to adopt the extras, given its long string of profitable quarters. ''We have the capital and infrastructure to be able to do any and all of those things if we chose to,'' he said.
 Even as it decides its grand strategy, Southwest is already taking baby steps. Without fanfare, it recently began letting passengers check in for flights on its Web site and print their boarding passes, beginning at midnight on the day of their flights. That eliminated the need for travelers to arrive at the airport quite so early.
 But it will never go the full route and assign seats, said Ms. Barrett, Southwest's president. That would lengthen the boarding process at an airline that prides itself on turning around planes quickly at its gates. Even 10 additional minutes, multiplied by all its aircraft, would be prohibitive, she said. ''Most people can accept that -- and if they can't, they probably shouldn't be flying Southwest Airlines in the first place,'' she said. 
 Southwest, however is studying a major change: whether to retrofit its aircraft with in-flight entertainment systems, which have been a hallmark for JetBlue and have been copied by competitors.
 Even though vendors have shown up at Southwest headquarters with systems that would be economical to install, Ms. Barrett said that there was less than a 50-50 chance that Southwest would adopt them. But she acknowledged that they would make sense on the airline's longest flights, like Providence, R.I., to San Diego, or Baltimore to Los Angeles, on which passengers have the most time on their hands. 
 Robert W. Mann Jr., an airline industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y., said Southwest would have to keep track of the planes with the seat-back systems, otherwise it might find them deployed from Houston to Dallas or other short routes. That is exactly where Southwest doesn't want them to wind up, Ms. Barrett said.
 Darin Lee, a senior managing economist at LECG, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., likens Southwest's conundrum to installing phone lines in a home after it has been built. ''It's a lot more costly to tear down walls to do it, versus building a house with it already planned,'' he said.
 IN any case, Mr. Parker said, the audio-video systems ''would have to be available in a form that was consistent with our goal of having low cost, and continuing to offer our customers great value.''
 Even less likely, though also under consideration, is an expansion of Southwest's fleet beyond the family of Boeing 737's it now deploys. The airline set off murmurs last year when officials acknowledged that they were studying the Brazilian-built Embraer 190, a 100-seat regional jet, smaller than a 737 but twice as big as most regional jets. JetBlue has ordered 100 of them, with an option to buy 100 more.
 ''We're looking at it, as we have always done,'' said Mr. Kelly, the chief financial officer. ''But we've got a pretty high hurdle to overcome in adding another aircraft type'' -- namely, that it would require new maintenance, parts and training procedures.
 As JetBlue and its rivals plan to expand, so does Southwest. Mr. Parker said the airline would not add any other new cities this year -- a blow to the 115 that have been angling for its business. He noted, however, that Southwest always adds more destinations after it starts service from a new city, which it plans to do quickly from Philadelphia.
 Whether those passengers will get more in the way of frills isn't clear. Yet, Mr. Parker does not seem daunted by the phalanx of other carriers aiming at Southwest's territory. Some, he suggests, may join names like People Express and New York Air in the aviation trash bin, unable to keep a lid on their costs while keeping fares low.
 ''It's a much more competitive atmosphere than it has been for some time,'' he said. ''But history suggests that airlines do go away.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Flight attendants at Southwest are known for their affability. They even tell jokes to passengers. (Photo by David Woo)
 James Parker, vice chairman and chief executive, says staying atop the low-fare airline market is like defending the Super Bowl championship. (Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. 9)Drawing (Nathan Jarvis )(pg. 1)Chart: ''Flying at a Higher Altitude''Share of all domestic passengers for major and low-cost airlines.19901. American: 14.4%2. Delta: 13.63. US Airways: 13.04. United: 11.45. Northwest: 7.56. Continental: 6.87. Southwest: 4.98. TWA*: 4.49. America West: 3.410. Alaska: 1.111. ATA: 0.11995:Delta: 15.1%United: 12.8American: 12.0US Airways: 10.5Southwest: 9.5Northwest: 7.8Continental: 6.1TWA*: 3.8America West: 3.2Alaska: 1.8ValuJet+ : 1.0ATA: 0.42003 through OctoberDelta: 13.3%Southwest: 12.8American: 12.4United: 9.6Northwest: 7.4US Airways: 6.4Continental: 5.3America West: 3.3Alaska: 2.2AirTran: 2.0ATA: 1.6JetBlue: 1.5*Acquired by American in 2001. +Merged with AirTran in 1998.Note: data does not include regional partners.(Source by BACK Aviation Solutions)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIR FARES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); CONTRACTS LAW (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (68%); REALITY TELEVISION (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (62%); TOURNAMENTS (62%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (91%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); BOEING CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Southwest Airlines; US Airways

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (91%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: GARY C KELLY (79%) Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



171 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; ECONOMIC VIEW

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Productivity And Jobs: The Political Vagaries

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.

 BODY:
IF you're a socialite, you can never be too thin or too rich. And if you're an economy, you can never be too productive.
 Productivity -- the measure of how much labor it takes to create a product or service -- is a measure of our collective wealth. An economy that can do more with the same amount of human resources enjoys a higher standard of living in the long run. And for the American economy, the recent productivity boom has been a competitive advantage. Nonfarm productivity rose 4.4 percent in 2003 after a 5.0 percent gain in 2002. 
 But in the short term, elevated productivity can mean slower job creation. And now that political consultants are watching monthly jobs figures with the same intensity as economists do, many people in Washington are wishing that American companies would stop being so darn efficient. 
 As of January, some 2.3 million payroll jobs have been lost in the United States since January 2001. If they are not regained by next January, President Bush will be the first president since Herbert Hoover to see the number of payroll jobs decline during his four-year term. (Payrolls fell by 24 percent under President Hoover but only about 1.7 percent under President Bush. Still, it makes a great sound bite.) 
 Mr. Bush's opponents aren't the only ones accused of playing politics with job numbers. In the 2004 Economic Report of the President, issued in February, N. Gregory Mankiw, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, predicted that the average number of payroll jobs for 2004 would rise by 2.6 million. J.Bradford DeLong, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley, said that for the average to rise by that much it would necessitate the creation of some 3.8 million jobs between December 2003 and December 2004. 
 The administration's forecast, which is far higher than those of most mainstream economists, sounds a little like a weak-hitting shortstop promising during spring training to hit 50 home runs during the season. But it was also noteworthy for the way it appeared to arrive at its robust job-creation forecast -- by lowballing productivity growth. 
 The economy is projected to grow about 4.5 percent in 2004, so productivity growth would have to fall sharply and quickly from its current pace to bolster employment substantially this year. For 2004 through 2007, Mr. Mankiw predicted that nonfarm labor productivity would grow at an average annual rate of 2.1 percent. While he said this figure was ''virtually the same as that recorded during the 43 years since the business-cycle peak in 1960,'' he noted that it was much lower than the 4.5 percent annual rate notched since the fourth quarter of 2000.
 Most economists say the recent productivity gains are unsustainable. But many find the administration figures too low. Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm based in St. Louis, predicts that nonfarm productivity growth in 2004 will come in at 3 percent, then fall to 2.4 percent in 2005. 
 There is reason to believe that productivity won't simply regress to its historical mean. Productivity has been cyclical. In the early phases of an economic boom, productivity rises as businesses expand output without hiring new workers. In the latter stages, as companies are slow to reduce head count, productivity slows. 
 In the 1990's expansion, productivity growth predictably kicked into a higher gear -- fueled by advances in information technology and globalization. But in a move that confounded economists, it remained stuck there during the recession in 2001. And it rose once the economy began to recover.
 ''As we go forward it became harder and harder to dismiss what was going on and what is going on as a cyclical phenomenon,'' said Benjamin M. Friedman, a Harvard economics professor.
 IN other words, it could be that the productivity gains made by businesses in the so-called new economy have not eroded. Companies haven't traded in their PC's for typewriters. They're buying better PC's. ''The evidence looks to me like the underlying trend in productivity growth is running above 3 percent,'' said Robert J. Gordon, an economics professor at Northwestern University.
 That may not sound like much of a difference. But a 1 percent drop in productivity can translate into the creation of 1.3 million extra jobs over the course of a year -- assuming that economic growth is constant. 
 Even so, while the falling productivity in the short term may be good news for those concerned about job creation, it may not happen soon enough. Macroeconomic Advisers predicts that productivity will rise at a strong annual rate of 4 percent in the first quarter, and won't fall much below 3 percent until the second half of the year.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''U.S. Productivity''Annual change in the output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses.Graph tracks ouput per hour from 1990-2003.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); STATISTICS (89%); JOB CREATION (88%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); POLITICS (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); BASEBALL (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%) Labor; Productivity; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Daniel Gross; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



172 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: FOREIGN POLICY

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: KERRY CONDEMNS BUSH FOR FAILING TO BACK ARISTIDE

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 6 

 BODY:
Had he been sitting in the Oval Office last weekend as rebel forces were threatening to enter Port-au-Prince, Senator John Kerry says, he would have sent an international force to protect Haiti's widely disliked elected leader, Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
 ''I would have been prepared to send troops immediately, period,'' Mr. Kerry said on Friday, expressing astonishment that President Bush, who talks of supporting democratically elected leaders, withheld any aid and then helped spirit Mr. Aristide into exile after saying the United States could not protect him. 
 ''Look, Aristide was no picnic, and did a lot of things wrong,'' Mr. Kerry said. But Washington ''had understandings in the region about the right of a democratic regime to ask for help. And we contravened all of that. I think it's a terrible message to the region, democracies, and it's shortsighted.'' 
 Mr. Kerry's critique on Haiti, which Bush campaign aides dismissed as political, was emblematic of how he is already using foreign policy and national security issues in his contest with the president.
 In his first in-depth interview on foreign affairs since effectively winning the Democratic nomination, Mr. Kerry hop-scotched around the world in the course of an hour. He took issue with Mr. Bush's judgment beyond their well-aired differences on Iraq, questioning his handling of North Korea, the Mideast peace process and the spread of nuclear weapons and arguing that he would rewrite the Bush strategy that makes pre-emption a declared, central tenet of American policy.
 Mr. Kerry is trying a bit of election-season pre-emption of his own, attempting to short-circuit the White House argument that he is too much of a straddler, too indecisive and too captivated by the nuances of foreign policy to defend American interests.
 ''People will know I'm tough and I'm prepared to do what is necessary to defend the United States of America, and that includes the unilateral deployment of troops if necessary,'' said Mr. Kerry, who has rarely used the word ''unilateral'' in the campaign except to describe how Mr. Bush has alienated allies. ''But my standard is very different from George Bush's.''
 But so far, Mr. Kerry has not described that standard in detail. In the interview on his plane, Mr. Kerry said he was reluctant to define how he would act in specific situations -- particularly in murky cases like Pakistan -- because conditions could change by next year.
 Yet, signaling how he plans to use the questionable intelligence about Iraq to chip away Mr. Bush's credibility, he added that if he committed troops to battle, he would do it with ''full disclosure and full vetting of the intelligence to the American people.''
 But the core of Mr. Kerry's argument in the interview was that divisions within Mr. Bush's foreign policy team have frozen the art of preventative diplomacy and kept Secretary of State Colin L. Powell from doing his job. 
 ''I think simply Powell, who I know, like and admire, has been never permitted to be fully a secretary of state in the way that I envision the secretary of state,'' he said, describing how he believes that Mr. Powell has been regularly undercut by the administration's more hawkish members, led by Vice President Dick Cheney. ''I think Powell -- I'm not sure they didn't lock the keys to the airplane up sometimes.''
 Mr. Kerry warms to these topics in a way he never quite seems to do when talking about his multistep plans to reform health care or roll back parts of Mr. Bush's tax cuts.
 Years on the Senate Foreign Relations committee have given him a fluidity in talking about the world's hot spots. On Friday he spoke of his long tutorials about China with Lee Kwan Yew, the authoritarian founder of modern Singapore and now its senior minister. He slipped in a reference to his conversations with world leaders at the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, an exclusive event where he used to be a regular attendee.
 He said he might take a foreign trip during the campaign -- he would not say where -- an event that would emphasize a diplomatic style distinct from Mr. Bush's.
 Yet some members of his growing foreign policy team -- some days it seems as if every former Clinton administration aide is now scrambling to climb aboard, forgetting their brief dalliances with Mr. Kerry's former primary rivals -- worry that such talk could backfire on the campaign trail. Mr. Kerry, they concede, still has a hard time mustering the clear, declarative sentences and bedrock precepts that have become Mr. Bush's trademark.
 ''It's hard to imagine John banging his fist and declaring that countries are 'either with us or against us,' said one adviser who speaks frequently with the Massachusetts senator. ''Is that good or bad in the general election? We don't know.''
 Moreover, Mr. Kerry clearly has not yet mastered the Clintonian knack of engagingly breaking down complex problems into simple, accessible terms, no matter his audience. On the campaign trail he regularly indicts the administration's ''arrogant, inept, reckless, ideological'' foreign policy and warns that ''even the United States of America needs a few friends on this planet.'' 
 But when pressed for details, Mr. Kerry can veer into the dry, Latin-heavy jargon of policy journals.
 He is trying, though, to speak in far more concrete terms. In a radio address broadcast Saturday morning, a response to Mr. Bush's weekly radio commentary, Mr. Kerry dwelled at length on the stories of American military units scrounging for private donations of steel plates for their Humvees and body armor before they deploy to Iraq. ''This administration has given billions to Halliburton and requested $82 million to protect Iraq's 36 miles of coastline,'' he said. ''But they call this basic body armor a 'nonpriority' item.''
 In turn, the Bush campaign is scouring Mr. Kerry's voting record for evidence of weapons systems he has sought to kill, and it is whispering to reporters about the contrast between Mr. Kerry's desire to shrink the intelligence services after the cold war and his declarations today that they are unprepared for the task of combating terrorism.
 But to talk to Mr. Bush's advisers and then to Mr. Kerry is to hear a very different description of America's influence in the world. For example, Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, argued recently that the decision to confront Saddam Hussein sent such a strong message worldwide that Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, agreed to surrender his nuclear and chemical weapons. In turn, she contended, that helped unwind the nuclear proliferation network built by the Pakistani scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan.
 Mr. Kerry waved that argument away: ''Everybody who knows anything about Libya and Qaddafi knows that is not what brought him around. They will claim it, they want the linkage, but it is not true, like much of what they say.'' He added, ''that deal was on the table several years ago'' as Libya sought to settle the Pan Am Flight 103 terrorism case.
 ''No matter how much they bluster and futz, they can't fake it,'' he said. 
 But in several cases Mr. Kerry declined to say how he would handle some of the stickiest issues: whether to reward Pakistan for its aid against Al Qaeda, for example, or punish it for failing to crack down on what was clearly one of the world's most dangerous nuclear proliferation networks, based in its own laboratories. 
 He said, however, that he had no confidence in White House assurances that Pakistan's nuclear weapons were safe from terrorists.
 Steve Schmidt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, dismissed Mr. Kerry's remarks. ''Senator Kerry has a record of changing his positions when he feels political pressure,'' Mr. Schmidt said Saturday. ''When his support for the war in Iraq became politically unpopular in the Democratic primary he changed his position, declared himself an antiwar candidate, and voted against body armor and other important equipment for troops in the field.''
 In his conversations on foreign policy, sooner or later Mr. Kerry returns to the touchstone of his early adult life, Vietnam. He compared the Bush administration's participation in the exile of Mr. Aristide last weekend to the coup four decades ago that ousted another unpopular authoritarian leader: President Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam. Mr. Bush's more hawkish aides, he argued, have failed to learn how the efforts to change a region's dynamics by changing its government almost always backfire. 
 In Haiti's case, he contended that if he had been in Mr. Bush's shoes, ''I would not have allowed it to arrive at where it was,'' with mobs roaming the streets of Haiti's cities.
 Mr. Bush's aides, led by Mr. Powell, said last week that such critiques distort of the administration's efforts. The crisis grew from Mr. Aristide's own actions and his sponsorship of the marauding gangs, Mr. Powell said last week, and the United States decided not to prop him up after he had lost his legitimacy.
 Mr. Kerry charges that a similar lack of constant attention led the administration to avoid dealing with the North Korean crisis for the first 18 months of Mr. Bush's presidency and that even now, Mr. Bush is unwilling to engage in serious negotiations. It was an example, he said, of the president's dealing first with the less threatening problem, Iraq, because it was the easier to solve.
 ''There's a reason the Bush administration walked that backwards and chose Iraq,'' he said. ''And the reason is in the first eight hours of a conflict with North Korea, you'd have over a million casualties, and they knew that in Iraq you wouldn't.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); POLITICS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); TERRORISM (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; Election Issues; Politics and Government; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Presidential Election of 2004; Palestinians; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Intelligence Services; Biological and Chemical Warfare

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; David E Sanger; David M Halbfinger; Jean-Bertrand (Pres) Aristide

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (94%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Haiti; North Korea; Israel; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004



173 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Offerings Scheduled for Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three-and six-month bills and a four-week bill on Tuesday. According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 0.92 percent, the rate on the six-month issue was at 0.96 percent and the rate on the four-week issue was at 0.92 percent. The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 Knoxville, Tenn., $53.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

WEDNESDAY
 North Carolina, $707.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Tennessee School Board Authority, $129.9 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

THURSDAY
 Charleston County, S.C., $64.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 California Infrastructure and Economic Development Bank, $50.9 million of infrastructure state revolving fund revenue bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Clear Creek Independent School District, Texas, $164.1 million of debt securities. RBC Dain Rauscher Inc.
 Fresno County, Calif., $328 million of taxable pension bonds. UBS Financial Services.
 Middletown, Ohio, City School District, $70 million of debt securities. Seasongood & Mayer.
 New Castle County, Delaware, $95 million of general obligation bonds. First Albany Capital Inc.
 New York City Municipal Water, $576.1 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch & Co.
 New York State Dormitory, $165 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
 New York State Thruway Authority, $327.1 million of second general highway and bridge trust fund bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Northwest Infrastructure Financing, $116.2 million of transmission facilities lease revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 Ohio Building Authority, $120 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
 Oregon State Board of Higher Education, $92 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
 Rhode Island Housing and Mortgage Finance Corporation, $78.4 million of home ownership opportunity bonds and notes. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 United Independent School District, Texas, $70 million of debt securities. Southwest Securities Inc. 
TAX EXEMPT

TUESDAY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (53%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (68%); SOUTHWEST SECURITIES INC (63%); SEASONGOOD & MAYER (55%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); RY (TSX) (68%); RY (SWX) (68%); RY (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (68%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



174 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: The Wrong Way to Sell Democracy to the Arab World

BYLINE: By Zbigniew Brzezinski. 
Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security adviser in the Carter administration, is the author of ''The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership.''

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration deserves credit for its long-term commitment to democracy in the Middle East. But even a good idea can be spoiled by clumsy execution. Worse still, the idea can backfire -- particularly if people come to suspect that ulterior motives are at work. 
 This is precisely what is happening with President Bush's ''Greater Middle East initiative,'' which outlines steps the United States and its partners in the Group of 8 industrialized nations can take to promote political freedom, equality for women, access to education and greater openness in the Middle East. Elements of the proposal include the creation of free trade zones in the region, new financing for small businesses and help overseeing elections. 
 After a draft of the initiative was published last month in Al Hayat, a London-based Arabic newspaper, Arab leaders responded swiftly -- and unhappily -- at what they perceived to be American efforts to impose change. President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt went so far as to call the proposal ''delusional.''
 Fortunately, there is still time for the administration to set things right and rescue this potentially worthwhile project. But it must move quickly, particularly if it wants the G-8 to sign on to the plan at its summit meeting in June. 
 There is no question that the administration has its work cut out for it. For starters, the democracy initiative was unveiled by the president in a patronizing way: before an enthusiastic audience at the American Enterprise Institute, a Washington policy institution enamored of the war in Iraq and not particularly sympathetic toward the Arab world. The notion that America, with Europe's support and Israel's endorsement, will teach the Arab world how to become modern and democratic elicits, at the very least, ambivalent reactions. (This, after all, is a region where memory of French and British control is still fresh.) Though the program is meant to be voluntary, some fear that compulsion is not far behind.
 There are other reasons to be wary of the administration's plan. Democracy, impatiently imposed, can lead to unintended consequences. If the Palestinians were able to choose a leader in truly free elections, might they not opt for the head of Hamas? If free elections were soon held in Saudi Arabia, would Crown Prince Abdullah, a reformer, prevail over Osama bin Laden or another militant Islamic leader? If not genuinely accepted and reinforced by traditions of constitutionalism, democracy can degenerate into plebiscites that only add legitimacy to extremism and authoritarianism.
 Compounding the problem is the suspicion -- not only among the Arabs but also among the Europeans whose support the United States is seeking -- that the sudden focus on democracy has been promoted by administration officials who wish to delay any serious American effort to push the Israelis and Palestinians to reach a genuine peace settlement. That suspicion was fueled by Vice President Dick Cheney's recent remarks at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. The spread of democracy, Mr. Cheney said, was ''the precondition for peace and prosperity in Western Europe'' after World War II. He went on to assert that democratic reform ''is also essential to a peaceful resolution of the longstanding Arab-Israeli dispute.''
 Mr. Cheney's argument that democracy is the precondition for peace appeared to many to be a rationalization for postponing any effort to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Moreover, it ignored the historical reality that democracy can flourish only in an atmosphere of political dignity. As long as the Palestinians live under Israeli control and are humiliated daily, they won't be attracted by the virtues of democracy. The same is largely true of the Iraqis under the American occupation.
 For the Bush administration's initiative to succeed, it must be more in sync with regional realities. To that end, the administration should take the following steps:
 First, the program must be devised with Arab countries and not just presented to them. Egyptians and Saudis will not embrace democracy if they feel that their religious and cultural traditions are being slighted. The Europeans should also be fully engaged, and they should likewise pursue a dialogue of their own with the nations of the region regarding the definition and the goals of the planned undertaking. Any differences in approach could then be reconciled at the G-8 summit meeting.
 Second, the initiative must recognize that without political dignity derived from self-determination there can be no democracy. The Germans regained their political dignity in a relatively short time after the end of World War II, and that in turn helped them to revive the democratic traditions of the pre-Nazi era. The program for Arab democracy will be more successful, and find wider acceptance, if it is matched by efforts to grant sovereignty to the Iraqis and Palestinians. Otherwise, democracy will seem to many in the Arab world to be window dressing for continued external domination.
 Finally, the United States must define the substance of a peace settlement in the Middle East and then work energetically to put that agreement in place. Doing so will give greater credibility to the constructive motives behind the democracy initiative; it will also show the countries of the Middle East that there is a shared basis for a genuine partnership with the democratic West. 
 The transformation of the Middle East will be a more complex undertaking than the restoration of postwar Europe. After all, social restoration is inherently easier than social transformation. Islamic traditions, religious convictions and cultural habits must be treated with patient respect. Only then will the time be ripe for democracy in the Middle East. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); POLITICS (76%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); WOMEN (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); GENDER EQUALITY (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); ELECTION MONITORING (69%); HAMAS (68%); AL-QAEDA (64%); TERRORISM (64%); IRAQ WAR (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (55%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (54%); RELIGION (50%) United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; Palestinians

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Zbigniew Brzezinski; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); EUROPE (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); EGYPT (92%); IRAQ (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Middle East; Iraq; Israel; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



175 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; E-Commerce

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: As the debate continues, opinions are divided over the merits of allowing online drug purchases from Canada.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
CAN Canadian Internet pharmacists provide a cure for high prescription drug prices in the United States? Or are they part of the problem? American regulators and lawmakers are split on the issue, even as the pharmaceutical industry continues trying to fight Canadian drug wholesalers and online retailers who have carved out a market south of the border. 
 Online Canadian Web sites have made hundreds of millions of dollars selling American-made prescription drugs to Americans in the last few years, but growth in the market flattened this year because drug makers have begun restricting sales to Canadian wholesalers. Also, the Food and Drug Administration has stepped up its warnings to consumers on the hazards of importing prescription drugs, even those that were originally exported from the United States to Canada. 
 At the same time, Canadian druggists have gained powerful allies in governors, mayors and county executives, who are publicly declaring that at least of the online outlets are safe. 
 Late last month Wisconsin put on its state Web site a list of prescription medicine prices from three Canadian online pharmacists, along with order forms. The service is nearly identical to one posted a month earlier by Minnesota. Similar services, meanwhile, have sprung up in Westchester County, N.Y., and Springfield, Mass., among others, for either municipal employees or the public. 
 ''We want to elevate the discussion of the costs for prescription medicines,'' said Kevin Goodno, commissioner of human services for Minnesota. ''The people who are most likely to take advantage of this are the uninsured mostly seniors, spending $100 a month on prescription medicines.''
 The most often cited example for savings is Lipitor, the cholesterol-reducing drug by Pfizer, which last year was the leading American prescription drug for the third consecutive year, with $6.8 billion in sales. 
 A 90-pill Lipitor prescription (20 milligrams) sells for about $180 on Canadian pharmacy sites like crossborderpharmacy.com, $100 less than the price at American pharmacies. Health Canada, the country's health regulator, sets the nation's drug prices partly by averaging the prices charged in the Group of 8 industrialized countries for any given drug. Those prices are typically 30 percent to 50 percent lower than in the United States market.
 Americans spent $695 million last year buying drugs from Canada, according to IMS Health, a pharmaceutical industry research firm, compared with $414 million in 2002. Two-thirds of the sales in 2003 came from online transactions, with the rest coming from Americans traveling to Canada to make the purchases. 
 The Canadian online pharmacies have also hurt American-based online druggists like drugstore.com. According to Peter M. Neupert, the chairman of drugstore.com, the company has maintained revenue growth of roughly 30 percent in the last two years, but the pharmacy segment of its business has lagged other categories, like over-the-counter medications.
 Canadian Internet drugstores ''have cost us anywhere from $100 million to $250 million in annual revenue,'' Mr. Neupert said. ''On our revenue base, that's a lot.'' 
 To try to stop bargain hunting across the border, the pharmaceutical industry is restricting the amount of drugs shipped to Canadian wholesalers. Pfizer, for instance, said last week that it recently cut off two wholesalers, after determining that the drugs had made it back to the United States market by way of Canadian Internet pharmacies.
 Like other companies, Pfizer sent letters to its wholesalers last year threatening action if they were found selling to Canada's online pharmacists. ''We followed through on what we said we'd do,'' a Pfizer spokesman, Paul Fitzhenry, said.
 The drug makers also contend that the importation of drugs from Canada is illegal, a claim echoed by the F.D.A. ''We're not going to snatch a bottle of pills from some old lady who spent $200 on Lipitor in Canada,'' said William Hubbard, the F.D.A's associate commissioner for policy and planning. ''But if someone had a trunk full for commercial operations, we'd seize those.''
 Mr. Hubbard said that for drugs to be considered legal for American consumers, the medicines must be approved by the F.D.A. and dispensed by pharmacies licensed in the United States. Congress has in recent years passed legislation allowing drugs to be imported from Canada if the secretary of health and human services can certify they are safe, but the department has not yet made such a designation.
 Mr. Hubbard said buying drugs from Canadian Web pharmacists ''is a game of roulette, because there's a lack of control.''
 ''We have regulations,'' he said, ''that are intended to keep very tight control over these products, and these foreign pharmacies completely evade that system.''
 Mr. Hubbard said he believed that Minnesota and Wisconsin were also technically breaking the law, in that their Web sites are ''causing the importation of an unapproved drug, which is the legal standard.'' While he conceded that state officials were not importing the drugs or reimbursing consumers for the costs, he said that the F.D.A. may be forced to sue state officials to resolve the issue. 
 Consumers have already taken to the courts. Late last month, an Illinois couple, Ray and Galee Andrews, became the first plaintiffs in a federal lawsuit against the F.D.A. and Tommy Thomson, the secretary of health and human services. The suit, filed in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, challenges federal laws barring the importation of prescription drugs from Canada.
 Mr. Goodno, Minnesota's human services commissioner, contends that his Web service, Minnesota RX Connect Online, is legal and ''providing information about services to Minnesota consumers'' that is both valuable and trustworthy. Before listing any Canadian online pharmacies on its site, the state sent a team of pharmacy inspectors to eight Canadian Internet druggists, he said, and selected two companies, the Vancouver-based Granville Pharmacy (www.canadapharmacy.com) and the Calgary-based Total Care Pharmacy (www. crossborderpharmacy.com).
 One inspector, Mr. Goodno said, deemed Total Care Pharmacy ''the best-run pharmacy he'd ever seen.''
 Mr. Goodno acknowledged that the pharmacies knew about the initial inspections, but he said Total Care and Granville would undergo surprise inspections in the future, and will be taken off the Minnesota Web site if they fall short.
 So far, about 1,000 visitors have visited the state Web site daily, Mr. Goodno said, with 100 or so orders placed since late January. The state receives no sales commission on any purchases. Neither Granville nor Total Care sell so-called lifestyle drugs like Viagra or narcotics like Valium or Percocet. 
 While the support of states and municipalities has helped, the online market has felt the squeeze from the drug companies in recent months, said Andy Troszok, vice president for standards at the Canadian International Pharmacy Association and director of professional services at Total Care. 
 Mr. Troszok said his company had so far succeeded in finding alternate wholesale suppliers to replace those that had been cut off or scared off by the pharmaceutical companies. Still, he said, the F.D.A.'s pronouncements about the risks to consumers have damped the online business. 
 ''When Americans start being told by their own government that they're breaking the law, it has an effect,'' Mr. Troszok said. 
 As sales have grown, the company has spent more money on its processing facilities, Mr. Troszok said, to maintain its reputation as a safe operation. ''So we're still making a profit,'' he said of Total Care, which is privately held. ''Just not necessarily healthy profits.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andy Troszok of the Total Care Pharmacy in Calgary, Alberta, said Food and Drug Administration pronouncements about the risks to consumers have hurt the online business. (Photo by Chris Thomas for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); DRUG PRICES (90%); PHARMACISTS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (89%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); PHARMACIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COUNTIES (75%); MARKET SIZE (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); RETAILERS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); CHOLESTEROL (50%) Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Computers and the Internet; International Trade and World Market; Sales; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (90%); IMS HEALTH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%) Food and Drug Administration

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFEB (BRU) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (55%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (95%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



176 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: A Software Aimed at Taming File-Sharing

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
The record industry is hoping that a little magic will solve its problems with online piracy by file sharers. 
 The Recording Industry Association of America has been talking up a company named Audible Magic to lawmakers and regulators in Washington in recent weeks in an attempt to show that file-sharing networks can be tamed.
 The company, based in Los Gatos, Calif., has developed a technology that it says can spot copyrighted materials while they are being passed from computer to computer and block the transfer. 
 Audible Magic executives say that their software can be used in devices that attach to computer networks, or it can be written into the file-sharing software from companies like Kazaa and Grokster. 
 ''We think the technology is extraordinarily promising,'' said Mitch Bainwol, the chairman of the music industry group. ''We said from the start that technology may pose some risks, but it offers the solution.''
 File-sharing companies have argued that they cannot control copyright infringement on their networks. 
 ''I think it does change the game,'' said Josh Bernoff, a principal analyst with Forrester Research. ''Now if you're a legislator, you're going to have to make a decision about whether you're going to protect the rights of downloaders, or of the people who own the copyrights to the music.''
 Record industry executives, who have said that they are against government-ordered technology fixes for copyright problems, said that they are not asking Congress to act, at least at this time. Instead, Mr. Bainwol said, his industry would like to see the ''peer-to-peer'' companies add the software to their wares.
 ''It really puts the P2P community to the test,'' he said. ''Are they serious about becoming legitimate, or are they not serious?''
 The chief executive of a company with a product that could be put to similar uses said that the file-trading companies were unlikely to sign up.
 ''It destroys their model,'' said Mark M. Ishikawa, the chief executive of BayTSP, a company that monitors file-trading activity for entertainment companies. He never developed a file blocker, he said, because ''for us, it's a waste of time.''
 Vance Ikezoye, the chief executive of Audible Magic, said that businesses could emerge from the use of his technology, which he said could be used to help sell legitimate music, not just block the illegitimate kind.
 The file-sharing companies and those that work with them are unsurprisingly unenthusiastic about the music industry's flirtation with Audible Magic. Marty Lafferty, the chief executive of the Distributed Computing Industry Association, a trade group for the companies, said the software ''falls considerably short'' of what is necessary to work with such fast-changing technology. ''P2P is an evolving technology that can only be understood by working more closely with the developers of these applications.''
 But some universities are already looking at the technology. Charles E. Phelps, the provost of the University of Rochester, one of two schools that has signed a contract with the new Napster service to provide legitimate music to all students, said that he was impressed with Audible Magic's ability to allow legitimate files to be traded while preserving privacy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (95%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (78%); COPYRIGHT LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING (75%); INTERNET CRIME (73%) Music; Copyrights; Recordings (Audio); Music

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (91%) Audible Magic Corp; Recording Industry Assn of America

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: John Schwartz

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



177 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Concerns Make Deals With Saudis to Search for Gas

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, March 7 

 BODY:
Saudi Arabian officials said on Sunday that they were seeking to strengthen ties with China and Russia after allowing energy companies from those countries to be among the first foreign businesses to explore Saudi natural gas reserves in more than three decades.
 The Saudi contracts are with Lukoil, one of Russia's largest oil companies, and Sinopec, a large Chinese oil and gas producer. They were signed here on Sunday after protracted talks with several large American energy companies had collapsed over differences on terms and amid perceptions of a more distant relationship between Riyadh and Washington. 
 ''There is no question cooperation in the economic field has the secondary benefit of increasing total cooperation,'' Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, said after signing the agreement with Lukoil. Russia is the largest producer of oil among nations that are not part of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. 
 Efforts by Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil producer, have been exceptionally fruitful within and outside OPEC, with the price of oil climbing to more than $37 a barrel, the highest since the eve of the Iraq war. High oil prices in 2003 allowed Saudi Arabia to deliver its strongest economic performance since 1981, with its economy growing more than 6 percent over the previous year.
 Still, Saudi Arabia, even as it remains OPEC's most pivotal member, has been slow in developing natural gas reserves, in contrast with neighbors in the Middle East like Iran and Qatar. In discussing the Sinopec contract, Abdallah S. Jum'ah, the chief executive of Saudi Aramco, the energy company controlled by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, emphasized the need for greater foreign investment in gas production. 
 The relationship with China, the largest importer of crude oil from Saudi Arabia, is ''vital and thriving,'' said Mr. Jum'ah. He also said that Saudi Aramco expected to own a 25 percent stake in a Chinese refinery project controlled by Sinopec. 
 Saudi Arabia also signed gas contracts on Sunday with two European companies, ENI of Italy and Repsol of Spain. These added to an agreement last year with Royal Dutch/Shell and Total of France to develop other gas projects. The European deals came after a $15 billion proposed gas project led by Exxon Mobil, the largest American oil company, fell apart last June.
 While Exxon Mobil and other American companies remain active in Saudi Arabia's petrochemicals and refining industries, the demise of the earlier gas deal highlighted important differences between the Saudi government and American investors. Problems emerged over financial terms and Saudi requests for companies to operate power plants and desalinization projects as well as search for gas. The deal was also scrapped amid growing security concerns after the bombing last year of Western enclaves in Riyadh and as Saudi Arabia's traditionally close ties to the United States have come under increased scrutiny domestically and abroad. 
 ''It is newsworthy that no U.S. companies have been successful in the tender and perhaps more significant that none of the successful bidders have a substantial current portfolio or recent track record in the Middle East,'' Iain Brown, an analyst at Wood Mackenzie in Edinburgh, said in a report. 
 Saudi Arabia last year scaled back its ambitions for the gas contracts, limiting them to exploration and production in the Empty Quarter, an expanse of shifting sand dunes in the nation's south. But only one American company, ChevronTexaco, bid, and it did not win a contract.
 Energy analysts remain skeptical as to whether the latest agreements, which initially are expected to attract roughly $800 million in investments, will result in any significant increase in Saudi gas production.
 With a fast-growing population of about 24 million, Saudi Arabia badly needs more natural gas to meet energy demands. Although it has the world's fourth-largest gas reserves, it has no immediate plans to export gas, leaving it lagging behind countries like Indonesia, Qatar and Algeria that are feeding growing markets in the United States and Europe.
 Mr. Naimi, the oil minister, said he expected domestic demand for natural gas to double by 2025 to about 14 billion cubic feet a day.
 Plans to increase gas output could also be a sign that Saudi Arabia expects oil prices to remain elevated and easier to sell abroad, since using gas to fuel power plants would free additional oil for export. Saudi Arabia produces roughly 8 million barrels of oil a day and uses about a sixth of that for plants that otherwise could be fired by gas. 
 In a sign that Saudi Arabia is concerned about finding employment for its citizens, officials at Saudi Aramco said the new gas projects were expected to create 35,000 jobs directly and 150,000 jobs indirectly. Saudi Arabia is struggling with efforts to alleviate unemployment, trying among other things a program called ''Saudization'' to reserve jobs held by foreigners for Saudi citizens. 
 Regardless of the outcome of its gas projects, Saudi Aramco signaled Sunday that it expected to emerge from the entire process with a stronger grip on the nation's oil and gas industries. Despite attracting financing from partners in Russia, China and Europe, Aramco officials said they had no plans to let foreigners explore Saudi oil reserves.
 ''In the end this was a national oil company battling for turf and global influence,'' said Walid Khadduri, the editor of the Middle East Economic Survey, a weekly newsletter based in Cyprus specializing in the oil business. ''They are showing that they won.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, said his country expects demand for gas to climb. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PETROCHEMICALS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); BOMBINGS (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Gas (Fuel); United States International Relations; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORP (85%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); OAO LUKOIL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%) Lukoil; Sinopec Group; Eni ; Repsol Sa

TICKER: SNP (NYSE) (85%); SNP (LSE) (85%); 0386 (HKSE) (85%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); LKOH (RTS) (58%); LKOD (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%)

PERSON: Ali Al- (Min) Naimi; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (91%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); CHINA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); QATAR (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SPAIN (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%) Saudi Arabia; China; Russia; China

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



178 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Mine's Pollution Fund Is Focus of Federal Agencies' Duel

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: BATTLE MOUNTAIN, Nev. 

 BODY:
From the walls of a massive terraced pit in the barren mountains above this small desert town, microscopic specks of gold were harvested a dozen years ago and will soon be harvested again. With the mining comes the inevitable chemical consequence: rain and melting snow combine with newly exposed rock fragments to produce sulfuric acid.
 The Newmont Mining Corporation, which wants to revive its operations here, has acknowledged that both the old and the new projects may produce enough acid to pollute the groundwater 100 to 10,000 years in the future, though Newmont executives say this is unlikely. 
 And so for the first time, the Interior Department is invoking new federal regulations and requiring Newmont, the world's largest gold producer, to set money aside in a trust fund to pay for any pollution that surfaces, even when Newmont may no longer exist. 
 The fund is the first test of mining regulations overhauled by the Bush administration. And it is central to one of the biggest and least-known environmental battles within the administration. 
 The Environmental Protection Agency, which has the most experience with mine cleanups but no direct authority over mining on federal lands, had argued fiercely that $33.5 million would be needed to prevent groundwater pollution, according to official records of the dispute.
 The mining company countered that a fund of $408,000 would be sufficient. 
 In February, the Bureau of Land Management in the Interior Department gave its final approval to the project, requiring Newmont to set aside $408,000 in a trust fund and a $1 million bond that could be used to supplement the fund if periodic monitoring found that necessary.
 The fight between the agencies was in many ways a reflection of their history. The Environmental Protection Agency was born of the environmental movement's rise in the early 1970's. The Interior Department's attitude toward mining was originally embodied in the Mining Law of 1872, which was intended to allow mining companies easy access to federal lands. 
 But mining has been an environmental byword for decades. ''Historically, mining projects have resulted in the expenditure of billions of dollars by the government for environmental cleanups,'' wrote Wayne Nastri, the San Francisco regional administrator of the environmental agency.
 ''E.P.A. believes the project will likely create a perpetual and significant acid mine drainage problem requiring mitigation for hundreds of years,'' Mr. Nastri wrote at another point. Unless the Newmont trust fund was adequately financed, he argued, ''the federal government would inherit an enormous financial burden.'' Nationwide, mining companies have had a high closing rate, leaving suppurating sores in the landscape and no money to heal them. 
 The environmental agency's arguments were disputed by the company and the Interior Department. The environmental agency abandoned its quest to get the larger amount of money, one longtime agency official said, because its officials believed that they could not prevail against the Interior Department.
 Gail Givens, the assistant field manager at the Bureau of Land Management's Battle Mountain office, said that Newmont's prediction of perpetual groundwater pollution was a ''worst-case scenario.'' Should the worst case occur, he added, ''our regulations allow us to adjust and make the proponent put in more money at any time.''
 John Mudge, Newmont's director of environmental affairs in North America, said the likelihood of any long-term pollution was small. ''Every aspect of this operation has environmental protection built in,'' he said. Long-term acid drainage, a staple of earlier generations of mines, is highly unlikely, he said, because of new, clean-as-you-go technologies. 
 Besides, the huge pit will produce pollution without any new mining, the company's environmental statement predicted. The safeguards for the new operations would also catch the old pollution, Mr. Mudge said.
 Northern Nevada, whose desolate expanses are the heartland of the country's gold mining industry, accepts mining as a birthright, if not an honor. Before the rise of Las Vegas, mining was Nevada's signature industry; if the state were a country, it would be the world's third-largest gold producer. Newmont, a worldwide gold producer, is one of the biggest operators here and has done extensive reclamation work at nearby mine sites, which are now topped with artificial buttes from which sage is just beginning to sprout. 
 But productive mines, with 30-year life spans, no longer enlarge communities nor renew economic vitality here. When early construction on this project, called the Phoenix, is complete, the number of miners needed to move the tons of earth and leach out the tiny specks of gold will equal the number of miners who will have finished work at Newmont's Lone Tree mine not far away.
 So the spare mountains above Battle Mountain are empty, windy places, and the town beneath is sparsely populated.
 The same climate and landscape that make the area hard to live in make it hard to predict environmental damage from mining. In January and February, snow can cover the surface mining sites, which are giant industrial complexes tucked into the mountains throughout the state. The melt-off can be slow or swift.
 The Phoenix project's environmental impact statement predicts the pollution, if unchecked, will seep into the groundwater and then into local streams and rivers about 60 years after the mine shuts down. It will peak 100 to 1,000 years after the mining begins, and will linger for 10,000 years or more, the company's model predicted.
 Tom Myers, the executive director of Great Basin Mine Watch, a Reno-based environmental group, argues that the model is too optimistic and does not include enough monitoring wells.
 Newmont officials, however, said that their model probably exaggerated the impact.
 They also argued that the cost of remediation and monitoring would rise slowly, as engineering efficiencies and technological advances trim construction costs and productivity gains trim labor costs. The E.P.A.'s overall cost estimates were triple those of the land management agency's and Newmont's.
 Mr. Nastri also argued in his written comments that the financial assumptions underlying the trust fund -- an annual pretax return of 9.8 percent, an annual inflation rate of 3.1 percent, Newmont's continuing ability to pay taxes on the fund's behalf -- were unrealistic. Newmont's current market capitalization is $7.3 billion; gold prices for the past few months have been at all-time highs.
 Wilbur Lewellen, a professor of management at the Krannert School of Management at Purdue who specializes in long-term forecasting, said that the Bureau of Labor Management's assumptions ''don't strike me as outrageous.'' 
 The E.P.A., according to Mr. Givens of the land-management agency, erred by rating the Phoenix site as a future Superfund site, and ''that's not what we have here.'' He added: ''We don't desire the taxpayer to clean up something done by private industry. The difference is in how we go about it.''
 Mr. Mudge of Newmont said he believed ''every aspect of this operation has environmental protection built in.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dennis Augare, foreground, a drill operator, taking samples of the ore at the site. Concerns have arisen about the amount of potential pollution.
 The Phoenix project site in Battle Mountain, Nev. The likelihood of long-term pollution from mining gold there is sharply disputed. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)Map of Nevada highlighting Battle Mountain: A gold harvester wants to return to Battle Mountain, Nev. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MINES & MINING (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); MINE WASTE REMEDIATION (89%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MINE & QUARRY RECLAMATION (77%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (73%); APPROVALS (67%) Water Pollution; Mines and Mining; Gold; Sulfuric Acid; Finances; Water Pollution; Public Property

COMPANY: NEWMONT MINING CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (82%) Interior Department; Newmont Mining Corp; Environmental Protection Agency; Bureau of Land Management

TICKER: NEM (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (72%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (72%)

PERSON: Felicity Barringer; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Battle Mountain (Nev); Nevada

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



179 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4495 words

HEADLINE: For a Promising but Poor Girl, A Struggle Over Sex and Goals

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
The framed poster in the nurse practitioner's office lists ''101 Ways to Say No to Sex.'' But Tabitha F., a 17-year-old high school senior, wants to say yes without apology.
 ''I guess I'm a feminist, because I don't believe having sexual freedom is bad, dirty,'' she declared during a break between Spanish and A.P. Lit, where she was reading ''The Awakening,'' an 1899 novel about a woman's emancipation. ''I think it's all about being ready, and not to go there without a helmet.''
 The modern armory of contraception is inventoried on another poster in the clinic, an outpost of Montefiore Medical Center that is tucked inside DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx. But despite her brave words, real protection eludes Tabitha, who travels two hours to her honors program at DeWitt Clinton from a homeless shelter in Queens. 
 As she first told it, she chose the birth control patch when she fell in love. Later, she confessed: ''I got off the patch because it was a lot of money. I couldn't go on asking my mother for $15.'' Eventually, over a semester when she embraced Dickens and grasped physics, Tabitha revealed the darker reality of the romance that had claimed her virginity.
 On a winter night in 2002, after her family was evicted from their Bronx apartment, there was no room for her with relatives who had taken in her mother and four younger siblings. For two nights she rode the subway to keep warm. Then a young man she knew gave her a place to sleep.
 ''I guess I loved him, but on the other hand there was this depressing moment of, like, nothing's going right in my life,'' she said. ''He was there for me. I felt, well, it's the least I can do.''
 Tabitha's journey through high school, so full of promise and peril, illustrates why no one is yet declaring victory in the national crusade to prevent teenagers from conceiving. Though teenage pregnancy rates have declined for more than a decade, to historic lows, they could rebound at any time, experts say. 
 If fear of AIDS instilled more sexual caution in a generation of adolescents, that fear may be waning, as upbeat subway ads promote H.I.V. drugs and younger siblings engage in riskier behavior. If a religious revival and an influx of immigrants have brought stricter attitudes toward sex, the teenagers from such backgrounds who stray are less likely to use contraception or seek abortion. And if the growth in opportunities for poor women depressed birth rates in the 1990's, the economic downturn and rising college costs could have the opposite effect -- tightening the persistent link between low income and high rates of unintended birth.
 Those large forces reverberate in the daily lives of individual teenagers like Tabitha. Born to a 17-year-old in 1986, when teenage childbearing began its most alarming spike, she is now a tall, striking girl with a radiant smile and a yearning to succeed. 
 At times it seems that nothing can stop her. She is part of DeWitt Clinton's Macy Scholars program, which helps low-income minority students qualify for competitive colleges. Last summer, she organized a literacy class at her homeless shelter. This semester, she stuffed her copy of ''Great Expectations'' with scribbled Post-it notes, parsing the book's strange words and strangely familiar themes: childhood hardship, heartbreak and redemption.
 ''She's smart, articulate -- she has so much spunk,'' said Phyllis McCabe, the coordinator of the Macy program and one of Tabitha's fiercest advocates. ''She's poised, she's compassionate.''
 But after their warm embrace in front of a photographer, Ms. McCabe pulled her aside for a stern private lecture. The teenager had missed so much school during her junior year, after her family's eviction, that she was still struggling to bring her average back up to the 85 required to remain a Macy Scholar. And now, with her long commute, she was arriving late. Colleges would excuse her checkered junior year only if she could prove she had overcome her troubles, the coordinator warned her.
 ''We have kids with terrible, terrible situations,'' Ms. McCabe said later. ''They're hanging on by a thread, and sometimes when we're asking them to do it, you wonder how they can.''
 Tabitha's next stop was the Montefiore clinic, which like many pregnancy prevention programs is threatened with cutbacks. It has been her only reliable source of health care since her mother left welfare and lost family Medicaid benefits three years ago.
 Tabitha would never be caught, she said, like her childhood friend Rasheeda, the shy girl with high grades who wanted to be a nun -- and ended up pregnant at 15 by her first boyfriend, seeking an abortion when it was already too late. She would not follow in the footsteps of her mother, who had five children and a church wedding to the father of her youngest three, despite his drug addiction and domestic violence.
 But at the clinic it emerged that Tabitha had missed her last appointment. Embarrassed by her poverty, she had not mentioned dropping the patch. Nor did she disclose that a new man had entered her life -- an adult with a car, money and his own apartment.
 A stray remark revealed the stakes. 
 ''I was glad,'' Tabitha told the nurse, ''when I got my period two weeks ago.''

Perils in Every Case
 The decline in teenage pregnancy is a statistical abstraction to Margaret Rogers, 49, who has been a nurse practitioner at the clinic for seven years.
 ''I see them one on one,'' she explained before Tabitha's visit, excusing herself to speak with an angry mother whose daughter, 15, had tested pregnant.
 An enduring myth of teenage pregnancy is that affluent adolescents get pregnant as often as poor ones, but have more abortions. In fact, national surveys show that poor women of all ages have much higher rates of abortion and unintended births than the better-off. And though government studies typically display results by race, ethnicity and geography, the most dramatic and consistent differences in each category are by income.
 At DeWitt Clinton, where more than 75 percent of the 4,600 students live below the federal poverty line, Ms. Rogers sees case by case how disadvantage can stack the deck. 
 As the ''101 Ways'' poster in her office suggests, Ms. Rogers often counsels students about how to refuse or avoid sex. Some people believe that is the only message she should deliver. Ms. Rogers, a mother of two and the daughter of a Presbyterian minister, disagrees. 
 ''The majority of the tests are negative, thank God,'' she said. ''But that's a kid we know is sexually active, we know is taking some chances, who needs to be screened for sexually transmitted diseases, to be counseled about condoms and contraceptives.'' 
 Like many in the field, Ms. Rogers is not convinced that lower pregnancy rates are here to stay. Adults, she said, forget how quickly one wave of teenagers gives way to the next. For an earlier generation, the safe-sex message may have come home when Magic Johnson announced he was infected with H.I.V. and retired from basketball in 1991. ''This generation already doesn't know who Magic Johnson is,'' she said. 
 The average teenage girl has a nearly 90 percent chance of getting pregnant during a year when she is having sex without contraception, a study by the Alan Guttmacher Institute shows -- a rate that condoms cut to 15 percent and the most effective birth control methods reduce to less than one in 200. 
 But there are mothers who find and throw out their daughters' birth control pills in an effort to stop them from having sex. There are girls who reject Depo-Provera, a long-lasting hormonal contraceptive shot, not because it causes bone loss but because it stops menstruation, and they know their mothers check the garbage for their used sanitary napkins. Other girls, the nurse said, are engaging in anal sex ''not just as a pregnancy prevention, but to maintain their virginity.''
 Ms. Rogers finds it particularly difficult to counsel needy girls whose sexual partners are adults -- as are most males who father babies born to teenagers. ''I consider them predatory,'' she said, noting that older men have higher rates of sexual disease and lower rates of condom use than teenagers. ''But the girls consider it a great relationship -- a guy with some money and a car.'' 
 After Tabitha mentioned getting her period, the nurse scheduled another appointment for counseling and screening, wrote a new prescription for the patch and offered to arrange a waiver of the fee. Tabitha said she could afford to pay now: she had started a weekend job at a McDonald's near her shelter.
 But would she follow through with the patch? If not, would she derail her life? Those who work with young people like Tabitha say they are constantly asking such questions as they strain against the force field of poverty. 
 ''Welcome to the club,'' said Michael Carrera, a New York doctor recognized nationally for his health and social services program for poor children, which beats back the odds of pregnancy through the kind of day-to-day support taken for granted in more affluent families. ''I and all the people who work with us have the same sense of crossing our fingers, falling to our knees in desperation and frustration sometimes.
 ''This is so fragile, this is so on-the-edge, that the least little thing could move us back.'' 

Rebelling Against the Odds
 During a long subway ride back to the Queens shelter, run by the Salvation Army, Tabitha recalled the day she started high school. Her father, who lives in Virginia with his wife and two children, had marked the occasion with a rare telephone call.
 ''He said, 'These four years determine where you go in life,''' she remembered, imitating his deep voice and lecturing tone. She gave a short laugh. ''I sometimes think my father has been expecting me to be another statistic. He was expecting me to fall like my mother did.''
 Tabitha was not a statistic. She was a senior facing college applications, and the task of finding a narrative arc in her life story that could produce a happy ending. Sometimes she recounted her experiences in a way that fit that expectation. Sometimes she revealed the painful contradictions.
 This day had started at 5 a.m., searching for clean clothes for school as though through a shipwreck. Her younger brothers and sisters -- Malik, 15, Isaiah, 8, Akilah, 7, and Kierra, 2 -- were still sleeping. For nine months the family of six had been living in the shelter, a former hotel surrounded by chain-link fencing, in two small rooms with no telephone.
 Riding two buses and two subways, Tabitha had made it to her first class in time for her big test in American history. Later, she would apply her understanding of the Bill of Rights like balm to the humiliation of unannounced room inspections at the shelter. 
 ''It's like the ultimate violation of the Constitution, the Fourth Amendment, the right to privacy,'' she complained after a social worker walked in on Isaiah, naked in the bathroom. ''Their excuse? 'Oh, we just want to teach everybody good housing skills.' People think you're poor, they think you're dumb or you're a barbarian.''
 In some ways, Tabitha knew, her mother had fulfilled the public's worst expectations of teenage mothers in the late 1980's: She dropped out in 11th grade, had a second baby at 19 and turned to welfare to support two more born out of wedlock. 
 But she had also followed every current prescription for protecting her children from the hazards of poverty, including the risk of early pregnancy. She continued her education, with help from a city child care program for mothers in high school. Eventually, she earned a two-year associate's degree as a physical therapy assistant. She joined a church, left welfare for work and married.
 ''Marriage is not something obsolete,'' Tabitha's mother, 34, declared later over a Sunday lunch at her Pentecostal church in East Harlem, with Kierra in white crinoline beside her. ''It's to be held up as a standard.''
 Yet in Tabitha's experience, poverty itself made work, religion and marriage double-edged. On welfare, her mother had managed to provide food for a family of six or seven, including an orphaned cousin, and kept a one-bedroom apartment a short subway ride from DeWitt Clinton. But when she went to work, ''they took everything away from her,'' Tabitha recalled, citing a rent subsidy, Medicaid and food stamps that vanished along with welfare, making it harder than ever for the family to make ends meet.
 Her mother's proud church wedding to the father of Isaiah and Akilah in 2000 did nothing to improve a troubled relationship that Tabitha said was shaped by his beatings, growing drug problem and failure to share his pay -- at best $5.75 an hour when he worked. 
 Until her junior year, Tabitha had been a God-fearing, churchgoing girl, as she put it. Now she was unsparing as she challenged the pieties of her childhood. ''God wants you to wait,'' she said sarcastically. ''And do you think your husband will have waited? What about him? What if you wait for him and he cheats on you, he beats you up?''
 ''I guess I'm a rebel,'' she added. ''During that period when I was really homeless, I began questioning a lot. I was like, if you're so loving and forgiving, why is this happening to me?''
 On this school day, Tabitha had stayed late for an extra-help physics class with Mr. Strasser, an Austrian teacher with a ponytail. She was the only student without a calculator, and she had to squint to read formulas on the blackboard since there was no money to replace her broken glasses. But she loved the way Mr. Strasser explained a problem about acceleration in free fall, by dropping a piece of paper through her outstretched fingers before she could catch it.
 Maybe Tabitha had caught herself just in time. She had made an appointment with Ms. Rogers to be screened for everything: H.I.V., chlamydia and other sexually transmitted diseases. She had vowed to organize her homework better, to find school clothes the night before, and never again to have sex without protection. And just in case, she had asked Ms. Rogers how to apply for emergency Medicaid if she ever needed an abortion.
 Now, waiting in the dark at a bus stop on the last leg of her journey back to the shelter, she pointed out the place where she had met her mysterious new beau, Mike, 24. He had offered her a ride in his car, and assuring herself that it would be all right, she had stepped in. 
 It was nearly 7:30 p.m. when she trudged up the hill to the shelter's security post. Even outside the fence, a reporter's presence provoked the guard to threaten Tabitha with expulsion because shelter rules bar the news media. Tabitha argued with him politely. ''Imagine,'' she finally said, ''threatening someone with homelessness like that!'' 

An Attack, and an Escape
 In Tabitha's high school journey, even the lack of a small sum -- for laundry, a cab -- has sometimes had far-reaching consequences that have raised the odds against her. 
 One hot day late in her freshman year, she and her stepfather argued over her attempt to dry a blouse in the oven. As she told it, he punched her in the face. Tabitha, who had just turned 15, grabbed a kitchen knife and stabbed him. The charges against her were dropped after she spent a night in jail. But when she returned home, her stepfather was there, too -- awaiting the birth of another baby that Tabitha would have to tend.
 ''Mom, stop having kids!'' Tabitha said she begged.
 Some experts think reactions like hers help explain the decline in teenage pregnancy. But others say such experiences can cut both ways: Some girls forced to baby-sit while their mothers work seek escape in adult romance and early motherhood. 
 Early in her sophomore year, a cute 23-year-old man from her grandmother's neighborhood in Harlem befriended Tabitha. She was 15 and a virgin, and she thought it would be safe to go to his place because she had warned him beforehand, '''I'm not doing anything with you.' '' 
 It was not safe. ''He kept turning out the lights, trying to force me to touch him,'' she said. ''I knew if I was to run away, I would have to call a cab. My mom would be, 'Why was you there?' I'd be in trouble.''
 She was in trouble anyway. Haunted by a hip-hop music video that warned about AIDS, she went to the school clinic to be tested. The counselor who heard her full account had no doubt that what had happened was a sexual assault. School officials called the police. 
 Two officers came to her house, Tabitha said; she had been napping and was still dazed when they drove her around the corner in their squad car in the dark.
 ''I'm here crying and crying,'' she recalled. ''They shine a flashlight at me, and they're like, 'Are you sure you want to pursue this?' Making me tell it over and over, and then: 'There are so many inconsistencies in your account. It's your word against his. Do you want to just take this as a learning experience?'''
 Her choked ''yeah'' was an agreement not to press charges. In retrospect, what she hated most, she said, was seeing the way the two white policemen looked at her family's apartment. ''Our house, O.K., it was never the best, but that day it was so dirty, roaches and everything,'' she recalled, her voice growing thick. ''It gave them more reason to think I wasn't worth it.'' 
 Far from teaching greater sexual caution, such experiences can be precursors to depression, risky teenage sex and early pregnancy, studies in recent years have shown. What protected Tabitha?
 One camp might point to religion, another to counseling. But the key factor may have been DeWitt Clinton's strong theater program, the kind of extra that schools cut when budgets tighten. It sent her downtown to audition at La MaMa, an experimental theater in the East Village. Cast in an Elizabeth Swados production called ''The Violence Project,'' Tabitha found a new community where she felt valued and challenged. 
 That summer, traveling between Manhattan and the Bronx, she noticed ''the invisible line of poverty'' on Park Avenue at 96th Street. As the economy soured, she watched her mother, now separated, fall further behind on the rent. More than ever, Tabitha dreamed of going away to college. A scholarship was possible, her guidance counselors had told her. But her junior year would be crucial. 

In Search of Shelter
 As that school year began, marshals evicted the family with one day's notice. Efforts to secure an apartment in Newark failed. And a crisis hit during Christmas break. 
 Her mother and the other children had taken refuge with Tabitha's grandmother. Tabitha, then 16, had been shuttling between aunts and friends, working at a McDonald's in Midtown after school to pay her own way. Then she was laid off, and temporary living arrangements ran out. Tabitha asked her grandmother to make room for one more. 
 Her grandmother refused: The teenage girl could not share close quarters with her male cousin, 17, and 14-year-old brother. Her mother did not insist. That hurt, but Tabitha understood. 
 ''My mother was real desperate,'' she explained. ''She didn't want any problems with my grandmother, because she could throw them all out.'' Tabitha volunteered that she had another place to stay. Then the weeks of being ''really homeless'' began.
 For two nights, she rode the subways -- or, as she wrote in a draft of her college essay, ''From Woodlawn to Crown Heights and then from Inwood to Far Rockaway Beach, I sat on stone-hard train seats, thinking ... planning ... what train to ride next.'' 
 On the third night, she asked Dayvon, a 20-year-old friend of two weeks' standing, if she could stay with him. When he agreed, the ''101 Ways to Say No to Sex'' -- My parents are waiting up for me, I don't know you very well, Love isn't just about sex -- no longer seemed to apply. 
 ''We girls tend to think sex is going to be the most wonderful feeling,'' Tabitha observed later. ''But it hurt at first. It wasn't what I expected.''
 Even among the 93 percent of young women ages 15 to 24 who report that their first sexual intercourse was voluntary, a quarter say it was unwanted, according to a 1998 analysis of data from the National Survey of Family Growth that suggests the ''decision'' to start sex is far more ambiguous than imagined by policymakers.
 Eventually Tabitha would wonder if what she had felt for Dayvon was gratitude, love, obligation or envy. ''He was in college, he had a job, he had a life,'' she said. ''He lived at his stepfather's -- a nice home, decorated, with couches. I never had that.''
 When Dayvon's mother called and found her there, Tabitha felt too uncomfortable to stay. ''It was like charity,'' she said.
 For one night, she stayed with a church friend. The next day, she joined her family as her mother turned to the city's Emergency Assistance Unit to apply for shelter. 
 ''Everywhere we went we had to take our belongings,'' Tabitha recalled of the two weeks they shuttled between the unit and various overnight shelters until they were found eligible. ''Sometimes I'd come with my comforter to school. Mainly, I was not making it in. I hated coming to school and seeing all these kids with homes.''
 Yet as she looked around at the other homeless families, school seemed her only escape hatch. ''The E.A.U. was all black and Hispanic people,'' she said. ''I realized the only way I'm going to get out is education. I don't have a singing talent. I don't rap. I act, but I'm not going to be a Broadway star. My goal is just to be stable.''

The Moment of Truth
 This school year, all of Tabitha's goals hinged on her taking the SAT's on Saturday, Nov. 1. But at the shelter, she had never received the letter telling her where to report for the test. Her student identity card was lost. It was Friday, Halloween, and no regular replacement I.D. would be available until Monday.
 At the last minute, Ms. McCabe, the honors program coordinator, improvised. A few calls unearthed Tabitha's assigned place for the test. A guidance counselor remembered the principal's Polaroid camera, which had film for one more picture. They typed up her description and an explanation on a DeWitt Clinton letterhead and pasted on the snapshot. 
 This time, it worked. ''You can't put your fingers in the holes fast enough,'' Ms. McCabe said later. ''Just with this one child you see how many pieces there are -- the emotional, the academic, the physical. She's not being negligent in her behavior; it's just too much for her.''
 In the weeks that followed, Tabitha teetered between vulnerability and resilience, buoyed or brought low by her relationship with Mike. At first she stayed up late talking to him on a borrowed cellphone about her school day, details that no one else cared to hear -- like her acceptance into a Manhattan theater youth group. But later he was always talking to someone else when she called. He would promise to call back, then not do it. 
 Tabitha had grown up on a seesaw of love and rejection. Her father, now a salesman, left when she was 4, but he had sent her presents of money over the years. Then when she visited him the summer before high school, he compared her unfavorably to Southern girls. Rejection from Mike seemed to reinforce paternal disapproval. 
 But by mid-December, Tabitha sounded upbeat when she answered her cellphone in the shelter. ''I'm in the Shakespearean competition -- Lady Macbeth,'' she said, chattering on about theater excursions and new writing projects before revealing why she was so giddy: After a monthlong disappearance, Mike was back, and he was taking her to ''The Lord of the Rings.''
 First, though, he took her to his apartment. 
 As Tabitha described the place later, it was a studio in Jamaica, Queens, with ''a leather white couch, white towels and a white comforter, a dresser drawer, a computer, a microwave.'' 
 She had bought the birth control patch. Her tests for diseases had all been negative, and she had made a vow to use protection. But when she suggested he use a condom, he reacted with disdain. ''He was like, 'You really know how to ruin a moment.' I was like, 'It's not about ruining a moment, but now that I know you're talking to someone else. ... ''' She trailed off. 
 Did she stick to her vow, or give up? ''I gave up,'' she said sadly. ''I'm a little weakling.''
 Later she remembered the funny ad she had seen on the bus: Ninety-two percent of women carry lip protection, 10 percent carry H.I.V. protection. Because she wasn't carrying a condom herself, she said, ''I couldn't speak my mind.''
 There seemed to be a politics to it, an ebb and flow of self-esteem. At one point in her eight-month relationship with Dayvon, she herself had felt offended when he insisted on using a condom, as though she was unclean. She had told him, ''We don't need to have sex at all,'' and that time they did not. On another occasion, she had been the one to insist that Dayvon use protection. 
 But with Mike, she just cared too much to insist. And after that weekend, he dropped her anyway.
 ''They're just little girls,'' Ms. McCabe had said, reflecting on her student mothers, in words that could apply to Tabitha as well. ''There's such a need for human contact. They try to get it where they can, and lots of times, there's a price to pay.''

Expectations, Big and Small
 As Tabitha plunged into ''Great Expectations,'' a dictionary beside her in her shelter bunk bed, she found another framework for her feelings: the story of the poor boy who suffers the contempt of the wealthy and beautiful, and for the first time sees himself as ''a stupid, clumsy, laboring boy.''
 ''I identified with Pip,'' she said, ''when he runs away and starts to cry because he realizes his position in life.'' 
 Last month, the family was still in the shelter -- one of a record 9,000 homeless families in city shelters, including 16,000 children. Her brother, turning 16 and failing in school, was sleeping with a 28-year-old shelter resident, a mother of three. ''The worst thing in the world would be if he gets her pregnant,'' Tabitha said. 
 Her mother did not want her to go away to college, she said. Tabitha still longed to go, but she was uncertain whether her SAT scores -- 520 verbal, 470 in math -- were good enough. She was struggling with her applications. And she still missed Mike terribly. At least, she said, she wished she knew his last name.
 At the theater group, she tried out the monologue she had chosen, from Karen L.B. Evans's play ''My Girlish Days.'' Stephen DiMenna, the director, was impressed. ''I thought Tabitha was this sort of quiet, shy girl,'' he said. ''Her monologue is stunning, and it sort of blew everybody away.'' 
 The character was Gertie, a smart, ambitious black woman relegated to factory work after her dream of college is broken by poverty, pregnancy and abuse. She cries out, ''Why am I stuck, frozen?''
 ''It's like me,'' Tabitha said later. ''What is keeping me from, like, soaring? 'Cause I just want to soar.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tabitha, 17, is a senior in a college preparatory program at DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx. She travels two hours from the Queens shelter where she lives with her mother and four siblings. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Above, Tabitha and Phyllis McCabe, coordinator of her honors program at DeWitt Clinton High School. As a baby, Tabitha was cared for in one of the first city-sponsored centers created to help young mothers finish school. The program is now in 42 city high schools, including DeWitt Clinton, where toddlers napped, below.
Margaret Rogers, a nurse practitioner in a hospital-run clinic at DeWitt Clinton High School, prescribed birth control for Tabitha. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
Safe-sex and birth control literature are on display in the clinic at DeWitt Clinton High School. (pg. B5)Chart: ''Young Women, Older Men''Age of men with whom teenage mothers had children, 200230 and older: 4%Under 20: 33%20 to 29: 63%Note: Data shown only for children for whom age of father is known, representing 66 percent of all children of teenage mothers.(Source by National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)(pg. B5)Chart: ''Poverty and Pregnancy''At all ages, low income is closely linked to higher rates of pregnancy, abortion and unintended birth.Women 15-44Who became pregnant in 2000, rate per 1,000At or below poverty level: 133Three times poverty level or higher: 66Who had an abortion in 2000, rate per 1,000At or below poverty level: 44Three times poverty level or higher: 10Who have ever had an unintended birth*At or below poverty level: 57%Three times poverty level or higher: 22*Data from 1995(Sources by Alan Guttmacher Institute
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY RATES (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (87%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); EVICTION (72%); ABORTION (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); AIDS & HIV (63%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Sex; Surveys and Series; Children and Youth; Birth Control and Family Planning; Finances; Age, Chronological; Sex

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (84%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: Nina Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



180 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Greek Conservatives' Victory Ends Long Rule by Socialists

BYLINE: By ANTHEE CARASSAVA

DATELINE: ATHENS, March 7 

 BODY:
Conservatives swept to power in parliamentary elections on Sunday, ending more than a decade of Socialist rule as Greece grapples with preparations for the Athens Olympics and for negotiations with Turkey over the fate of Cyprus.
 George Papandreou conceded defeat for his Panhellenic Socialist Movement, also known as Pasok, as surveys of voters leaving the polls and early results gave a solid lead to the center-right New Democracy party.
 With more than 50 percent of the vote counted, New Democracy was winning about 47 percent, compared with Pasok's 41 percent.
 New Democracy's leader, Costas Caramanlis, 47, vowed to deliver ''immediately'' on his campaign pledges for social reforms. ''This decision by the people is a great honor,'' he said. ''It's also one of great duty.'' 
 He also promised to rally all his resources to ensure that the Summer Games, beginning on Aug. 13, were ''safe and successful.'' He appealed for the support of Mr. Papandreou, the former foreign minister and son of the late prime minister, Andreas Papandreou. Socialists elected George Papandreou as their new leader earlier this year in a desperate bid to revive Pasok's plummeting popularity.
 In his concession remarks, Mr. Papandreou, 51, pledged support for the Olympics and for a ''just and viable solution'' to Cyprus's division.
 He attributed his party's loss to mistakes the party made while in office and voter fatigue with Pasok's ''long stay in power.'' 
 His soft-spoken demeanor was a contrast to his opponents' celebrations. Seas of New Democracy supporters surged onto the streets, fireworks flamed the capital's skies, and cars festooned with Greek flags flooded Athens.
 Voting is compulsory in Greece, the poorest European Union member, which Prime Minister Costas Simitis, a Socialist, steered into the Eurozone in 2001. Since then, inflation has declined to 2.9 percent, with the economy expanding by nearly 5 percent in 2003, more than double the European Union's average.
 But Greece's per capita gross domestic product stands at three-quarters the union's average, and its 8.8 percent jobless rate ranks among the union's highest.
 Pasok also was hurt by corruption scandals, lagging Olympic preparations and disagreements over the negotiations on Cyprus.
 Pasok, founded by Mr. Papandreou's father, dominated Greece for all but 3 of the last 23 years. It evolved from a party of generous patronage and antipathy to America in the early 1980's to one of tight fiscal management a decade later. It also anchored Greece's interests to the West, and pursued a policy of reconciliation with Turkey, Greece's historic enemy.
 Mr. Caramanlis espouses the same pragmatic path. An astute campaigner with a similarly strong political pedigree -- his uncle and namesake once served as prime minister -- he delighted supporters during the 11-week election campaign with promises of ''jobs, jobs, jobs.'' 
 The election results appeared to hand Mr. Caramanlis the ringing endorsement he needs to ''remold the state through strong economic stimulation,'' as he said in a recent interview.
 New Democracy looked set to win at least 165 of the 300 seats in Parliament. But Pasok appeared poised to win at least 115 seats, with the rest going to two small leftist parties. 
 The new government will take over at a precarious moment. Within two weeks of its inauguration, it will enter talks with Turkey on Cyprus, which the United Nations, backed by the United States, wants to see reunited before it enters the European Union on May 1. 
 Under a plan drafted by the United Nations, Cyprus's Greek and Turkish leaders have until March 22 to agree on a range of issues before Greece and Turkey join them to work out security questions. Referendums on the plan are due by the end of April. 
 ''The timetable is tight,'' said Petros Molyviatis, New Democracy's senior foreign policy adviser. He suggested that the new government might request additional time.
 Time is also a factor for faltering Olympic preparations. With less than five months to go, fewer than half the sites are completed.
 It was not clear whether Mr. Caramanlis would retain senior officials in Olympics-related ministries. 
 ''There will be no grace period for the government in regards Olympics preparations,'' said Stratos Safioleas, a senior manager of the organizing committee. ''No one can risk gambling the Olympic preparations. It would be like gambling Greece's future.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); OLYMPICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EURO ZONE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); CORRUPTION (50%); SCANDALS (50%) Elections; Election Results; Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); Legislatures and Parliaments

PERSON: GEORGE PAPANDREOU (93%); KOSTAS KARAMANLIS (89%) Anthee Carassava; George Papandreou; Costas Caramanlis

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%) GREECE (94%); CYPRUS (94%); EUROPE (93%); TURKEY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Greece; Athens (Greece); Greece

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



181 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: FLORIDA

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: The Battle for Florida Heats Up, Stirring Memories of the Recount

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 7 

 BODY:
Democrats have courted young voters with a ''Donkeys Rock'' registration drive, dangling perks like bottle-opener key chains, as Republicans have scoured databases to find like-minded voters among sportsmen, real estate agents and military families.
 Democratic interest groups have attacked President Bush's trustworthiness on the airwaves, while the Bush-Cheney campaign has trained legions of volunteers for what they know will be a block-by-block battle. 
 The tug of war over Florida, capital of swing voters and microscopic election margins, extends far beyond the preparations for the primary on Tuesday. Both sides have been mapping strategy since the bitter recount of 2000, with sophisticated armies vying for the volatile electorate earlier than ever. Florida has 9.3 million voters and 27 electoral votes, 10 percent of what is needed to win. 
 President Bush, haunted by the 36-day stalemate here after the 2000 election, which ended with a 537-vote victory, has visited 19 times, most recently touching down in Daytona Beach and Tampa to court Nascar dads and promote his tax cuts. 
 Senator John Kerry made Orlando his first stop of the general campaign season, rousing supporters with reminders of the 2000 recount, and planned to hold rallies in Florida on Monday.
 The Bush campaign is spending $900,000 for its first television advertising blitz here, more than twice as much as it is spending in any other state, according to strategists tracking the purchase. 
 ''Florida is on the knife edge of partisan balance,'' Lance M. deHaven-Smith, a professor at Florida State University who has studied voting patterns, said. ''It's a place where little things can alter the turnout just enough to tip the scales.'' 
 Even before 2000, the churning mixture of blacks, Hispanics, retirees from other states, urban liberals, suburban moderates and conservative-leaning rural residents made for a deeply divided state. One of five voters is unaffiliated or belongs to a minor party, assuring roller-coaster campaigns for national candidates. 
 Nowhere is the evolving battle for the presidency clearer than along the Interstate 4 corridor, which cuts diagonally across the state from Tampa through Orlando to Daytona Beach. Young professionals and new Hispanic immigrants have poured into the region, giving the Democrats a foothold in places like Orange County, which includes Orlando, for the first time in decades.
 Still, Republicans have held their ground along the corridor, which narrowly went for Mr. Bush in 2000.
 The biggest change along Interstate 4 has been the arrival of tens of thousands of Hispanic immigrants -- not Cubans, who remain concentrated around Miami, but Puerto Ricans, Mexicans and others drawn to Central Florida for tourism, agriculture and service-industry work. A project sponsored by the Puerto Rican government has registered 18,000 Puerto Rican voters in Central Florida in the last seven months.
 Hispanics along the corridor voted Democratic in 2000, helping Al Gore become the first Democrat to win Orange County in a presidential election since 1948. But in the race for governor in 2002, those voters went heavily for Jeb Bush, the Republican incumbent and the president's brother. Governor Bush, who speaks fluent Spanish, is running his brother's re-election campaign here and will court Hispanic voters on his behalf.
 The Republicans may have another advantage among Hispanic voters: Mel Martinez, who stepped down as secretary of housing and urban development in December to run for the Senate seat that Bob Graham, a Democrat, is leaving. Mr. Martinez, a Cuban-American, is popular in Central Florida because he is a former manager of Orange County. 
 Beyond the corridor, some standard battlegrounds have kept both camps wary, although there have been noticeable shifts in a few voting patterns. 
 In Miami-Dade County, Democrats want to steer Cuban-Americans away from Mr. Bush, who had their overwhelming support in 2000. Cuban immigrants have traditionally been die-hard Republicans, because that party takes a harder line than the Democrats against Fidel Castro. The younger generation, less focused on Mr. Castro, may be less loyal to a given party.
 Since 2000, Republicans have strengthened their control of Florida's Legislature and its Congressional delegation. Although most registered voters -- 3.9 million, or 42 percent -- are Democrats, the margin has narrowed in the last four years. Republicans now make up 38.4 percent of the electorate.
 Statewide, the biggest increase by far has been in voters with no party affiliation. They make up nearly 17 percent of the electorate, compared with 15.5 percent in 2000. The remainder belong to minor parties.
 Both parties will be fighting for moderate unaffiliated suburban voters, a group that generally went for Mr. Gore four years ago. Because that group is patriotic and somewhat fiscally conservative, some experts said Mr. Kerry, a New Englander, would not appeal to them.
 ''The only times national Democrats have done well in Florida were when they were Southerners,'' Professor deHaven-Smith of Florida State University said, pointing to Bill Clinton and Mr. Gore.
 To sway the so-called persuadables, the Bush-Cheney campaign began training volunteers in October to promote Mr. Bush in all 67 counties. By summer, the campaign plans to have 3,000 trained workers here and up to 70,000 additional volunteers appealing to swing voters through telephone calls, letters to the editor and block parties.
 ''We're well aware that Florida still has more Democrats than Republicans,'' Geoffrey Becker, executive director of the Republican Party of Florida, said. ''It's about talking to people, saying, 'If you're not with us on this issue, let's find another set of issues we can work with you on.' ''
 In the latest poll here, sponsored by The Miami Herald and The St. Petersburg Times, 49 percent of the 800 registered voters surveyed said they would vote for Mr. Kerry if the election were held now, and 43 percent said they would for Mr. Bush. The survey, which had a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points, was conducted on March 3 and 4, just as Mr. Kerry emerged from the Super Tuesday primaries as the presumptive nominee. A separate poll late last month, sponsored by The South Florida Sun-Sentinel and The Florida Times-Union, showed Mr. Bush leading Mr. Kerry by five points. But Democrats painted that as good news, saying that in March 2000 polls here showed Mr. Bush with a double-digit lead over Mr. Gore.
 As the Democrats awaited a winner in the nominating contest, interest groups working on their behalf started appealing to swing voters with their own television advertising, door-to-door appeals and voter registration drives. Those groups, called 527 committees, can spend unlimited contributions on advertising and turning out voters, though proposed rules could curtail their powers.
 Some groups concentrate on specific issues. Environment2004, for example, was formed to attack Mr. Bush's environmental policies. Groups like the New Democratic Network, created to support centrist Democrats, plan broader approaches. But almost all will be spending a large part of their money in Florida, especially appealing to its Hispanics.
 ''The Bush campaign is going to be spending millions on advertising,'' Maria Cardona, a vice president of the New Democratic Network, said. ''And this traditionally has not been a priority for Democrats until maybe three weeks before the election.'' 
 Starting this week, Ms. Cardona's group will run anti-Bush and pro-Democratic advertisements in the Orlando, Tampa and West Palm Beach markets. 
 ''The theme is that Democrats are the real friends of Latino voters,'' Ms. Cardona said. ''We've found that works really well, because Bush campaigned on being a good friend of the Latino community, and we are now able to show all these things he has broken his promises on.''
 Other 527 groups, and the Democratic Party itself, will home in on swing voters in the Panhandle and black voters throughout northern Florida. Democrats say they neglected these groups in 2000. 
 ''We have to see a big turnout in southeastern Florida, hold our own in the I-4 and reach out to swing voters in the northern part of the state,'' said Scott Maddox, chairman of the Florida Democratic Party. 
 Although blacks voted in record numbers in 2000, their turnout plummeted in the race for governor in 2002, to 45 percent from 70 percent. 
 ''You can't win an election looking in the rear-view mirror,'' Mr. Maddox said. ''We are going to be talking about issues going on in 2004.''
 Foremost among those issues will be the economy, education, health care and domestic security, both parties say. A test advertisement run by the New Democratic Network accused Mr. Bush of not putting enough money into education, with a Hispanic schoolgirl asking him, ''Why did you break your promise?''
 There will also be an effort to link Mr. Bush's policies to Jeb Bush's. 
 ''A lot of the extraordinary turnout among Democratic voters in 2000 was their tremendous resentment of policies coming out of Tallahassee,'' Representative Jim Davis, Democrat of Tampa, said about Governor Bush's successful push in 1999 to end affirmative action in state contracting and public higher education.
 Republicans point out that Governor Bush is extremely popular and that during his tenure Florida's economy has not suffered nearly as much as that of other states. Representative Mark Foley, Republican of Palm Beach County, predicted that the governor's popularity would help his brother connect with voters in a way that may elude Mr. Kerry.
 ''Kerry will have a hard time separating himself from the 'Taxachusetts' image and liberalism of his state,'' Mr. Foley said. ''I'm not going to be bold enough to say we can sweep this thing. But the equation is looking pretty good for us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Kerry was in Orlando, Fla., to attend a town hall meeting last week. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 President Bush met with workers last month at a factory in Tampa, Fla. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. A16)Chart: ''Florida's Votes and Its Voters''2000 election for presidentPercentage point lead for George W. BushBush: 2,912,790 (48.8%)Gore: 2,912,253 (48.8%)2002 election for governorPercentage point lead for Jeb BushBush: 2,856,845 (56.0%)Bill McBride: 2,201,427 (43.2%)Registered DemocratsPercentage of registered voters, February 2004Dem.: 3,916,207 (42.0%)Registered RepublicansPercentage of registered voters, February 2004Repub.: 3,586,944 (38.4%)Percentage of registered voters, 94-04Graph tracks the percentage of registered voters (DEMOCRATS, REPUBLICANS, NO PARTY AFFILIATION) since 1994.(Source by Florida Division of Elections)(pg. A16)Maps of Florida highlighting the percentage point lead for George W. Bush (2000 election for president), percentage point lead for Jeb Bush (2002 election for governor), percentage of registered Democrats (February 2004) and percentage of registered Republicans (February 2004). (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (85%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); LIBERALISM (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ARMIES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (67%); NASCAR RACING (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (57%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2000; Primaries; Political Advertising; Finances; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); AL GORE (74%) Abby Goodnough; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (91%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); PUERTO RICO (93%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



182 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: The Unrecognizable Recovery

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Bush crowd couldn't have been more pleased with the timing of the Martha Stewart verdict on Friday afternoon.
 The big news heading into the weekend was almost guaranteed to be the awful jobs report released by the Labor Department Friday morning. The White House needed a world-class distraction and the Stewart jury, eager to wrap things up before the weekend, obliged. It strolled in, as if on cue, with a verdict of guilty on all counts. Distractions don't get much bigger. 
 The Labor Department report was as grim as faces on a bread line. Despite all the president's promises, the economy added just 21,000 jobs last month. No jobs were added by the private sector. The 21,000 additional jobs were all government hires.
 The report also showed that job growth in December and January was worse than previously believed. The January tally was revised from 112,000 to 97,000. The December count dropped from 16,000 to a pathetic 8,000.
 A number of demographic groups are getting absolutely hammered. A new study by Andrew Sum, director of the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University, found historic lows in the reported labor force participation of 16- to 19-year-olds. According to the study, ''The estimated 36.8 percent employment rate for the nation's teens was the lowest ever recorded since 1948.''
 A more ominous finding was that over the past three calendar years the number of people aged 16 to 24 who are both out of work and out of school increased from 4.8 million to 5.6 million, with males accounting for the bulk of the increase.
 The Economic Policy Institute and the National Employment Law Project, in a joint analysis of newly released data, reported a disturbing increase in long-term joblessness. Unemployment lasting half a year or longer grew to 22.1 percent of all unemployment in 2003. That was an increase from 18.3 percent in 2002, and the highest rate since 1983.
 Among those having a particularly hard time finding work, according to the report, are job seekers with college degrees and people 45 and older.
 ''The new data,'' said Sylvia Allegretto, one of the authors of the report, ''show us an economy that is just not generating enough high-quality jobs to get highly educated and highly experienced workers back to work.''
 The nation is in an employment crisis and the end is not in sight. The Bush administration has no plan, other than a continued ludicrous reliance on additional tax cuts. The White House continued to say on Friday that making the president's tax cuts permanent would be an important step toward solving the employment problem.
 What is happening in some sectors of the black community is catastrophic. The Community Service Society studied employment conditions among black men in New York City. Using the employment-population ratio, which is the proportion of the working-age population with a job, it found -- incredibly -- that nearly one of every two black men between the ages of 16 and 64 was not working last year.
 In the current environment, even apparent good news can have its troubling aspects. An article in The Wall Street Journal a couple weeks ago indicated that Latino workers have been doing well, taking a ''disproportionate share'' of new jobs, especially in the construction and service sectors, since the economy began its recovery.
 The article referred to a demand for young, male Latino workers.
 It then went on to say: ''Typical of them is Jorge Alberto, a 22-year-old Guatemalan, who doesn't speak English, didn't complete high school and had never held a job -- until he slipped across the border into California from Mexico last year. In Los Angeles, 'I found a job almost immediately,' he says, pushing a cart through the muddy lot where he and five other Hispanic men are laying the foundation for a house.''
 Workers are facing these bleak employment conditions in a so-called recovery. What happens if we slip into another recession?
 A favorite metaphor associated with an expanding U.S. economy is ''A rising tide lifts all boats.''
 Right now, a lot of the boats have leaks, and they are taking on water fast. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); VERDICTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); ADOLESCENTS (66%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%) Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (88%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



183 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: The Axis of Reconstruction

 BODY:
President Bush, who rejected using American troops for ''nation building'' in his first campaign, is doing far more of it than his recent predecessors. More than 100,000 troops are now enmeshed in two important and difficult exercises in repairing failed states -- Afghanistan and Iraq. In Haiti, a smaller American military contingent faces similar challenges. The fate of these three efforts will not only affect Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, they will shape his presidential legacy.
 While American military forces entered these countries for different reasons, in each they encountered a shattered society. Political and economic reconstruction became not just a moral, but a practical necessity. Without effective nation-building, American forces could leave these countries only to be summoned back. 
 None of these efforts are likely to succeed if they remain the responsibility of the American military alone. The lesson being driven home by Iraq -- that international efforts work best and that defeating the enemy is not enough -- apply everywhere. Progress ought to be measured against three benchmarks -- securing stability, promoting democracy and resolving the underlying problems that prompted military intervention.
 More than two years after American-led forces evicted the Taliban from Kabul, much of Afghanistan remains insecure. A relatively enlightened constitution has been adopted, but is not enforceable in most of the country where warlords rule. Women still face severe legal and social discrimination.
 American troops went to Afghanistan to capture Osama bin Laden and oust the Taliban government that sheltered him. So far, Mr. bin Laden has not been captured and the Taliban has not been conclusively defeated. Even if both things are accomplished, that will not solve the problem. America took on the challenges of Afghanistan because the breakdown of governmental authority over nearly a quarter-century of civil war had opened the country to international terrorists. Until that authority is effectively re-established by a government that meets the needs and aspirations of Afghans of both genders, America's work will not be completed.
 After nearly a year of American occupation, Iraq still suffers from pervasive insecurity, which has now spread from the Sunni heartland to predominantly Shiite and Kurdish areas. The United States Army has been pushed close to its long-term deployment limits by the occupation, with no early relief in sight. An interim Iraqi constitution has been drafted, but its signing was held up over the weekend by differences over the crucial question of how governmental power is to be apportioned among rival religious and ethnic groups. Iraqis are now optimistic this it can be signed today. Still, no satisfactory formula has yet been devised for creating the interim government due to assume power July 1. 
 The Bush administration's case for invading Iraq was based on a supposedly imminent threat from Iraqi unconventional weapons. No imminent threat was found. But Iraq's scientists clearly know how to make those weapons and if continued chaos leads to a new dictatorship, covert work might resume. That gives America a practical interest in developing stable democratic structures that can outlast American military occupation.
 Haiti has been a failed state almost from its start 200 years ago. Its leaders have been authoritarian and corrupt, its economy impoverished and uncompetitive, and its people forced, in increasing numbers, to seek work and a decent life abroad. Previous American interventions failed to address these deeper problems adequately, leading to new crises and new interventions at increasingly shorter intervals. To end that depressing cycle, Washington must look beyond shuffling personalities at the top of Haiti's government to nurturing effective civic institutions and sustainable economic growth.
 Functioning nations cannot be conjured into existence by foreign occupiers. They must be put together primarily from within. But in shattered societies like Afghanistan, Iraq and Haiti, no internal effort can get far without a substantial and sustained outside commitment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (76%); AL-QAEDA (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); DISCRIMINATION (65%); ETHNICITY (64%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (62%); RELIGION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Editorials; Terrorism; Women; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); IRAQ (95%); HAITI (92%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



184 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: New York Begins to Cash In With Video Lottery Terminals

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y. 

 BODY:
On the southern rim of this renowned horse town, under the creaky grandstand bleachers beside the harness track, is a dark parlor newly made for gambling.
 On the carpeted 55,000-square-foot gaming floor under a ceiling of painted black industrial pipes are hundreds of what appear to be slot machines in rows flanked by a bar, a food court and a cashier's counter. In the swirl of bright lights and unending music, it may appear like a genuine Las Vegas betting parlor. But upon closer inspection, it is more a warehouse-size video arcade.
 Those are not real slot machines. They drop no real coins. 
 They are gambling monitors, 1,323 in all, known as video lottery terminals or video gaming machines, two names that give New York a legal way around a prohibition against traditional forms of casino gambling except on Indian reservations and allow the state to offer additional lottery games to help finance public education.
 The machines, which look more like A.T.M.'s than one-armed bandits, are hooked up to the state Lottery Division's mainframe computers in Schenectady. There are different machines for each of the 80 different games offered. Players insert cash or paper vouchers and push buttons to indicate the amount of their wager. Winners are rewarded not with loud bells, flashing lights and the pleasing jangle of falling change, but with an eerie silence. Only winners who cash out hear even the gentle swish of a paper voucher.
 State officials, trying to soften objections that it is morally irresponsible and financially unsound for New York to turn to gambling to pay for education, say that the new parlors are merely cyber versions of the lottery terminals selling scratch-off tickets in delis, convenience stores and bodegas all around the state.
 The law allowing the state Lottery Division to operate the first eight parlors, called racinos because of their proximity to harness tracks, was passed in late 2001. More than two years later, on Jan. 28 this year, the first, Saratoga Gaming and Raceway, opened. Another, in the Finger Lakes, began operating 21 days later.
 In his January budget proposal, Gov. George E. Pataki said New York should allow franchises to private operators for an additional eight parlors. He estimated that the state's share of the proceeds from the 16 parlors would grow to $2 billion, with the money going to help satisfy a Court of Appeals order for the state to provide all students a ''sound basic education'' without a steep -- and politically unpopular -- tax increase. 
 For Mr. Pataki's plan to succeed, bettors must be willing to open their wallets to an extent they would presumably not want to do for the tax collector. And if a recent visit is any indication, they do. Armies of older women with white hair who drove up the Thruway in Buicks and Cadillacs with New York plates pound on the buttons of their machines. A young couple, their hands in each other's back pockets, bet their earnings until just before the 2 a.m. closing. Lonely traveling salesmen sit next to bored retirees; an exotic dancer wins, her horse-owner friend loses, and a couple who own a diner expound on their theory that to win big you have to be able to bet big.
 Patty Moffitt, 37, is well aware that the Saratoga racino is no Las Vegas, but it is close to home, so on opening day, Ms. Moffitt joined the crowd of 10,000 visitors. She started winning -- as she has, she said, since she first took to games of chance more than a decade ago -- and never looked back. A month later, she was up nearly $5,000 after her latest two-day effort; the security officers working on the parlor floor wanted to know the secrets to her Midas touch.
 ''I don't know,'' she said, smiling. ''I'm lucky.''
 Through the close of business on March 3, gross sales at Saratoga have topped $87 million, said Carolyn Hapeman, a lottery official. After payouts for prizes, the net revenues amounted to $6.6 million, with more than $4 million pledged for education and the rest going to the tracks and the lottery itself, to pay administrative costs, she said.
 But this is no comfort to opponents of the video lottery terminals, among them State Senator Frank Padavan, of Queens, who criticized his fellow Republican, Mr. Pataki, for making gambling part of his legacy.
 ''I don't think that we should be telling our children that the quality of your education is going to be dependent on how much your parents lose in slot machines,'' Mr. Padavan said. He and other critics also say the new machines are the next step in turning New York into a haven of state-sponsored gambling.
 In the 1990's, two Indian tribes in New York each opened a casino: the Turning Stone Casino Resort, in Verona, run by the Oneidas, and the Akwesasne Mohawk Casino, in Hogansburg, near the St. Lawrence River.
 In 2001, the state approved up to six more Indian-owned casinos, including three in western New York and three in the Catskills, though only one of those, in Niagara Falls, has opened so far. In 2002, New York State joined an 11-state Mega Millions lottery game, and the governor has a proposal to expand the Quick Draw game, which is played at some bars and restaurants.
 ''These are things that will be a disaster, in my view, economically, socially, in communities that feed into them,'' said Mr. Padavan, who is a plaintiff in a lawsuit against the state's 2001 gambling legislation. ''We have over 1.1 million people in this state who have been identified as problem and compulsive gamblers.''
 On the racino floor in Saratoga, it was easy to find gamblers who described themselves as middle-class and said that to avoid financial ruin, they put strict limits - either in time or money - on their habit.
 Paul Derby, 49, a mental health and substance abuse counselor from Pittsfield, Mass., said $50 was all he could lose, and still afford to pay his bills, and he vowed to leave after ''a few hours.''
 Jim Masterson, 25, a bank teller from Latham, was glum as he watched the last of his $80 investment trickle away, a nickel at a time, at a game called Texas Tea. A woman who said she was a retired state worker but would not give her name, said she was losing, though she would not say how much. Hours later, she was seen wandering the gaming floor with a sickly look on her face, trying to find her daughter. Things had gotten worse, she said.
 Though gambling has always been faulted for taking money from those who can least afford it, several people here described themselves as financially well off. Alex Loupessis and his wife, Athena, said their diner in Latham is paid off and did a few million dollars in business last year.
 In eight visits to Saratoga, they said, they were up $9,000, but mostly because they were not afraid to invest large sums.
 ''You have to invest to make money,'' said Mr. Loupessis, standing at a machine that takes $5 bets. ''The gambling is no good, not for those who can't afford it. Poor people are victims because they lose and they go back and they lose. Poor people lose houses and they lose jobs.''
 Sitting at the Triple Diamond machine, a few rows away, Ms. Loupessis said gambling for her was a fun way to pass time, not a desperate way to earn money.
 ''Gambling is a bad habit, a very bad habit,'' she said. ''But like every other bad habit, it's very, very sweet.''
 It was approaching midnight, the hour she had set to leave. ''Cinderella has to go to bed,'' she said, slipping off her chair to fetch her husband. ''My prince,'' she called, looking for him.
 Four amendments to the New York State Constitution, the latest in 1975, created exceptions to the general ban on gambling passed by the voters in 1894. The amendments authorized wagering on horse races, as well as bingo and games of chance, so long as the profits go to nonprofit, charitable or religious groups, and in the case of state lottery games, for the benefit of education.
 That last point is what angers Cornelius Murray, a lawyer representing Mr. Padavan and others in the lawsuit against the state. He said that calling the video terminals at the racetracks a lottery for education is disingenuous since 20 percent of the profits from the machines go to the harness track operators and an additional 9 percent are allocated to purses at the tracks. 
 ''The ironic thing is, it is to subsidize a dying horse racing industry,'' Mr. Murray said of the new gaming activity.
 Some players here, Tony Corelli and Alicia Shephard, of Utica, said that pumping new life into the harness racing industry was their main reason to play the video slot machines.
 ''I'd rather dump my money here,'' Mr. Corelli said. ''At least here it goes for the purses for the horsemen, the guys who've been starving for all these years.''
 Mr. Corelli, 42, who owns three horses, said it was about time the state allowed gambling facilities to be operated by people other than American Indians. Mr. Corelli and Ms. Shephard had watched a friend's horse, Fire Me, run in the fifth race. But Mr. Corelli said he got his ''teeth kicked in'' betting on the ponies that day. On the other hand, Ms. Shephard, a 23-year-old exotic dancer, was winning at the slots. 
 Before they walked off, arm in arm, Ms. Shephard turned and said she had to make one thing clear. 
 ''I want to do anything in this state for education,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The 1,323 video gaming machines at the betting parlor in Saratoga Springs are hooked up to the state Lottery Division's mainframe computers. There are different machines for each of the 80 different games offered.
 Patty Moffitt, 37, holds $4,270 of winning tickets, the results of two nights spent at the video gaming parlor in Saratoga Springs. (Photographs by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES (92%); GAMING (92%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); CASINOS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); CONVENIENCE STORES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); TAX INCREASES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); RETAILERS (63%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%) Gambling; Saratoga Gaming and Raceway ; Education and Schools; Casinos; Gambling

ORGANIZATION: Lottery Division (NYS)

PERSON: Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; Saratoga Springs (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



185 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: At Rally for Domestics' Rights, A Nanny Tells of Mistreatment

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Fresh out of a Zambian secretarial college, Estella N'Gambi came to New York in 2000 with a few suitcases of belongings and a mind brimming with the words of the man who had hired her as a nanny. Ms. N'Gambi said he promised good money and told her he would pay her way through college and one day pay to bring her daughter to America.
 ''He spoke nice things,'' Ms. N'Gambi, 27, said yesterday of her employer, Teza Simunyola, a tennis coach who was divorcing his wife and living in Yonkers with their 2-year-old son. She then described how the nice things vanished as soon as she began caring for the child. 
 Ms. N'Gambi said she worked 18 hours a day, seven days a week. She earned $250 per month, when she was paid at all. She slept on the floor of Mr. Simunyola's one-bedroom apartment, and when she complained or considered leaving, she said, he threatened to have her deported. 
 But Mr. Simunyola's lawyer, Paul J. Noto, disputed that account, saying Ms. N'Gambi worked eight hours a day, received free room and board and was paid $250 to $400 a month -- a fee he said she had agreed to. Mr. Simunyola paid for Ms. N'Gambi to visit her family in Zambia and paid an application fee when she applied to an American college, Mr. Noto said.
 ''He was more than honorable to her,'' Mr. Noto said. ''We don't believe she was in any way the victim.''
 Ms. N'Gambi gave her account yesterday in the Bronx at a rally for domestic workers' rights, during which she announced that she had won a $45,000 settlement late last year against her former employer, a settlement Mr. Noto called amicable. 
 Her story of long hours and low pay is typical of the estimated 200,000 domestic workers throughout New York City, said organizers with Domestic Workers United, the lobbying group that staged the demonstration.
 In May, the City Council passed a law requiring employment agencies to tell people who hire domestic workers that they must inform them of their employment rights. Since then, workers who cook, clean and care for children and the elderly have been trying to expand their influence statewide.
 They have petitioned members of the State Senate and Assembly to introduce a Domestic Workers' Bill of Rights that provides for paid holidays, paid vacations, standard overtime guidelines and an hourly wage of $14 per hour. So far, their efforts have not yielded any legislative results, and Erline Browne, an organizer with Domestic Workers United, said state lawmakers had not responded to the group's lobbying attempts.
 ''There's a lot of abuse,'' Ms. Browne said. ''There's a lot of Estellas out there.''
 Ms. N'Gambi said that when he hired her, Mr. Simunyola, a fellow Zambian, wanted a nanny who could cook Zambian food and teach his 2-year-old son about Zambian language and culture. Ms. N'Gambi, surveying the bleak economy in her country, decided to take the job.
 Like those of many other domestic workers, her duties soon swelled beyond the job description, and she said she also began doing laundry, cleaning and polishing her employer's shoes. She said she had been promised her own bedroom, but had to sleep on the living-room floor, behind the couch.
 ''He would say, 'Just give me a few months, everything will be O.K.,''' Ms. N'Gambi said. ''But it never was. He knew that I wouldn't go anywhere. I was isolated.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Estella N'Gambi, a nanny who said she was lured from Zambia. (Photo by Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (89%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); LEGISLATION (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (84%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); OVERTIME (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); LOBBYING (65%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (63%); CITIES (61%); CITY GOVERNMENT (61%) Domestic Service; Law and Legislation; Demonstrations and Riots; Nannies; Wages and Salaries; Domestic Service; Working Hours

PERSON: Patrick Healy; Estella N'Gambi; Teza Simunyola

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ZAMBIA (94%) New York City; New York State; Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004



186 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; BUSINESS TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Personal Service Keeps Travel Agents in Business

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
Bill Catlette could spend less on air travel, but he has chosen not to.
 A principal in a consulting firm, Contented Cows Partners, Mr. Catlette is on the road about 100 days a year giving speeches and training executives. He could probably save money by booking airline tickets, reserving hotel rooms and renting cars on the Internet. 
 But like many frequent business travelers, he prefers to arrange his trips through a travel agent -- in his case, Gina Scott, who works in a one-agent office in Mr. Catlette's hometown, Collierville, Tenn., just east of Memphis.
 ''We realize that we can probably save a few bucks by working with Expedia, or direct booking with our preferred vendors,'' Mr. Catlette said. ''But until they have a Gina, it's not going to happen.''
 Even in an era of Web-only fares, electronic tickets and automated check-in kiosks, many business travelers are sticking by their travel agents, for a simple, old-fashioned reason: personal service whenever they need it.
 ''If I am driving down an expressway at 65 miles per hour and I need to change my travel plans at the last minute, Expedia is probably not going to take my call,'' Mr. Catlette said. ''She will.''
 The last decade has been tough on travel agents. Airlines at first halved and then largely eliminated commissions on domestic flights, forcing many agents to add fees to ticket prices. That led many leisure travelers and business fliers to book their tickets on the Internet. Then the stock market turned and the economy slowed, dragging travel down with it. Finally, the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks turned the slowdown into a slump.
 The effect on travel agencies, particularly small ones, has been swift and painful. By one measure -- companies accredited by the Airlines Reporting Corporation, which distributes tickets issued by the major carriers -- the number of retail travel agencies fell more than 30 percent from the beginning of 2000 to the end of last year. The biggest drop came in independent agencies, mostly small ones with a single location; 6,400 fell off the corporation rolls in those four years, an attrition rate of more than a third.
 Some travel agents survived by burrowing into a niche where suppliers still paid commissions, like cruise lines or packaged tour companies. Others focused on business travelers, winning their loyalty by helping them navigate the complex array of fares, discounts, rebates, waivers and certificates that airlines use to increase revenue.
 These clients are not necessarily computer illiterate, says Elizabeth Elwell of Blue Dolphin Surf and Travel in the North Hollywood section of Los Angeles, but include people averse to bouncing among Web sites in search of the best deals. ''The largest group of my loyal client base are savvy computer owners and Internet shoppers,'' she said. ''However, these people lead busy lives and don't have the inclination to waste a lot of their time trying to find the lowest fare when they need to travel. They would much prefer to pay me to do it for them.''
 Stephen P. Bloom, a partner in two companies in Santa Fe Springs, Calif., is a case in point. He is on the road most of the year for his two businesses -- the Allied Bakery and Food Service Equipment Company and Tesori Wines Inc. -- and avoids arranging his travel unless it is a simple round trip.
 ''Once it gets complicated, there is no way you can do it yourself,'' he said. If he has to make multiple stops on a single trip -- Los Angeles to New York to Omaha to Chicago and back to Los Angeles, for example -- he would rather have somebody else shop for the cheapest fares and make the inevitable last-minute changes to accommodate unexpectedly long or canceled meetings.
 He said he relied on his travel agent, Perla Georgino of Senator Travel, a family-owned firm in Beverly Hills, not only to book flights and handle changes but to navigate the airlines' complicated rules. She uses open-jaw itineraries that allow him to fly home from an airport that was not his original destination, advance-purchase waivers and other techniques to keep his travel costs low, he said.
 ''She has saved me thousands and thousands of dollars over the years,'' he said, including discounted business-class fares for his frequent trips to Europe. ''All of the things she is able to do for me that I could never do for myself online or in any other way. Anyone who travels a lot has to have a travel agent.''
 Not everyone agrees, of course. Gloria Metrick, a consultant who advises laboratories on how to manage their information systems, said her experience with travel agents, big and small, had been so inconsistent that she books her own travel over the Internet.
 ''One small agency I used gave me good personal service; another one I tried was just unusable,'' she said. ''They didn't keep a preference file, so I had to give the preferences and frequent flier and renter information every time I booked. They typed the information out to give me an itinerary and it was wrong quite often.''
 Independent travel agents cringe at such tales. They know that convenience is about all they have to sell these days; to persuade business travelers to pay a service fee of $25 to $50 a ticket -- and not go to American Express or other national chains -- their clients must find it simple to make arrangements and change them on the run, and to receive perks like upgrades as often as possible.
 Kelly Daoud, who operates his one-man agency out of his house in Palm Springs, Calif., said that he took along his laptop computer the last time he went on vacation, and made sure his phone messages were forwarded to him as e-mail attachments. Even when he was supposed to be relaxing, he said, he was rebooking flights and upgrading hotel rooms for his regular clients as fast as their requests came in. 
 He uses upgrade certificates that he gets from airlines, he added, to make sure that a client who flies to Europe two or three times a month has a seat in business class even though he pays coach fare. ''I save him probably $4,000 every time he goes,'' Mr. Daoud said.
 ''If you are good and you treat your clients good, you can hang on,'' regardless of competition from Web sites and obstacles from airlines, he said. While his agency, the Travel Guru, has not added any clients during the slump, Mr. Daoud said, it has not lost one, either.
 Mr. Catlette, the consultant in Tennessee, said his agent often did things for him that he would never have thought to ask her to do. When his travel plans change, for example, she calls his family to let them know he will be home later or earlier than expected, or staying in a different hotel. And when he was a few miles shy of maintaining his platinum level in Northwest Airlines' frequent-flier program, she called the airline to maintain his benefits.
 The agent, Ms. Scott, dismissed the suggestion that what she had done was extraordinary.
 ''All we have to offer,'' she said, ''is our service.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kelly Daoud, who operates his agency out of his house in Palm Springs, Calif., is often busy with work even when is supposed to be relaxing. (Photo by Carlos Puma for The New York Times)Graph: ''Going the Extra Mile''Rising competition and falling sales have caused thousands of independent travel agencies to merge or close recently. To stay alive, many agencies actively court business travelers with perks and around-the-clock service.RETAIL TRAVEL AGENCIESRESTRICTED LOCATIONS -- Offices on military bases, diplomatic states, etc.BRANCH OFFICES -- Agencies with one office.HEADQUARTERS -- Main office of chains.ON-SITE BRANCHES -- Independent agencies offices at major clients buildings.INDEPENDENT -- Agencies with one office.(Source by Airlines Reporting Corporation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (95%); AIRLINES (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (78%); AIR FARES (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (76%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); CRUISES (73%); TERRORISM (63%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); ACCREDITATION (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Travel and Vacations; Travel Agencies and Agents; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Airlines and Airplanes; Hotels and Motels; Automobiles; Renting and Leasing; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (77%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



187 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Executives at Shell Knew Of Shortfalls, Notes Say
The new head of the Royal/Dutch Shell Group and its current chief financial officer, as well as the chairman ousted last week, were advised of huge shortfalls in proven oil and natural gas reserves in 2002, two years before they were publicly disclosed, according to company memorandums and notes of executive discussions.
 But rather than disclose the problems to investors, senior executives in a July 2002 memorandum came up with -- and later carried out -- what it described as an ''external storyline'' and ''investor relations script'' that tried to ''stress the strength'' of existing resources, and minimize the significance of reserves as a measure of growth. [Page A1.]

Hicks to Retire From Equity Firm
Thomas O. Hicks, owner of the Texas Rangers baseball team and the Dallas Stars hockey franchise, said he would retire a year from now to focus on his personal investments. His retirement from Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst, the private equity firm based in Dallas that he co-founded in 1989, comes at a time when the firm is recovering from big losses it suffered from investments in telecommunications companies and in Latin America. [C5.]

Study Is Blow to Bristol-Myers
A study that Bristol-Myers Squibb created to show that its cholesterol lowering drug, Pravachol, was just as good as Pfizer's Lipitor has backfired, instead showing the superiority of Lipitor. [A1.]

Effect of Tax Cuts Called Minimal
The tax cuts and other policies that President Bush proposed in his $2.4 trillion budget would probably have a minimal impact on the economy, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said. [A21.]

Nation's Labor Leaders Meet
As the nation's labor leaders gathered in Florida, they were struggling to find ways to keep the union movement from sinking further after it suffered several recent stinging setbacks. [A12.]

Tech Shares Lead Stock Decline
Stocks fell, led by technology shares. The S.&P. 500 dropped 9.66, or 0.8 percent, to 1147.20. The Nasdaq composite index, which gets 40 percent of its value from computer-related companies, sank 38.85, or 1.9 percent, to 2008.78. The Dow Jones industrial average sank 66.07, or 0.6 percent, to 10,529.48. [C11.]

Telefonica to Buy BellSouth Assets
Telefonica of Spain said it would buy the BellSouth Corporation's remaining Latin American wireless assets in a deal worth $5.85 billion, strengthening the company's position across the region. [C4.]

Strong Sales for Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments, whose chips powered more than half the mobile phones sold last year, said that first-quarter sales would reach the high end of its forecasts as demand accelerates for cellphones with advanced features. Revenue for the quarter will rise to $2.84 billion to $2.95 billion, and earnings per share will be 19 cents to 22 cents. the company said. In January Texas Instruments predicted profit of 16 cents to 22 cents a share on revenue of $2.72 billion to $2.95 billion. [C4.]

Still a Place for Travel Agents
Even in an era of Web-only fares, electronic tickets and automated check-in kiosks, many business travelers are sticking by their travel agents, for a simple reason: personal service whenever they need it. [C8.]

Tension at the Security Checkpoint
Some readers who are frequent fliers say that customer service at airport security checkpoints can be far from courteous. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C9.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,529.48 down 66.07Nasdaq composite -- 2,008.78 down 38.8510-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.77% down 0.08The euro -- $1.2388 up 0.0010The dollar -- 111.26 yen down 0.76Graph tracks Texas Instruments' share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); BASEBALL (73%); ICE HOCKEY (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); CHOLESTEROL (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (94%); HM CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (82%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (80%); DALLAS STARS LP (69%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (67%); PFIZER INC (54%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS STARS (83%); TEXAS RANGERS (56%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (94%); RDSA (AMS) (94%); RDS.B (NYSE) (94%); RDS.A (NYSE) (94%); BMY (NYSE) (67%); PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFEB (BRU) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%); TXN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (94%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (80%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (80%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (80%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (80%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (69%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (67%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); SPAIN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



188 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Choose Me, Japan and France Say As They Court Big Fusion Project

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: ROKKASHO, Japan 

 BODY:
If the Japanese have their way, this village in northern Japan, an area known for its apples and sea cucumbers, will become home to a project that could give birth to the energy of the future.
 The project, ITER, for International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor, would try to emulate the sun's nuclear fusion to produce safe, clean and inexhaustible energy. The 30-year, $12 billion research center would be the second largest international scientific project after the International Space Station.
 Officials from six countries participating in the project are to meet in March to try to decide between Rokkasho and Cadarache, in southern France, even as talks have become increasingly tinged with politics. 
 After officials failed to decide between the two in a meeting in Washington in December, Spencer Abraham, the Bush administration's energy secretary, declared that the Japanese site was superior.
 The statement angered the Europeans, leading the French prime minister, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, to threaten to withdraw from the project and go it alone if France was not selected. In the French news media, the dispute over the site is being viewed through the prism of the war in Iraq: American support for Japan's candidacy in return for Tokyo's backing in Iraq.
 American and Japanese officials dismiss that view, but support for the two sites is split along the divisions over the war in Iraq: the United States, Japan and South Korea back Rokkasho.
 Japan says the research center, which would be the first of its kind in Asia, would be a plus for the region. The Chinese are not impressed. They have nuclear power ambitions of their own, and they have expressed worries about a site in earthquake-prone Japan.
 For decades, scientists have been researching nuclear fusion and predicting -- repeatedly, skeptics point out -- that it could become profitable in the next 30 years. 
 The ITER project stems from a 1985 research agreement between the United States and what was then the Soviet Union. Japan and Europe joined the project, followed by China and South Korea. The six participants would build the reactor over 10 years. It would then operate experimentally for 20 years, providing a basis for future reactors, which could begin generating commercial electricity around 2050.
 ''For the future of humankind, not only for Japan, securing a source of energy through scientific research should be an option,'' Toichi Sakata, a director-general in the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, said in an interview in Tokyo. ''How to use that option is something people 30 years from now, 100 years from now, will have to think about. But it's something we have to prepare for now.''
 Not everyone agrees. Masatoshi Koshiba, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist, has called on the Japanese government to drop its plans, warning of health and environmental hazards.
 ''Fusion has not been proven to be safe, and it is too costly,'' Dr. Koshiba said in an interview in Tokyo.
 In nuclear fusion, atoms collide inside a reactor at extremely high temperature and pressure, releasing energy that can be harnessed to produce electricity. Unlike nuclear fission, the process now used in the nuclear industry, fusion reactors do not consume uranium or plutonium, but run on isotopes of hydrogen found in seawater.
 The Japanese and French each say that they have done more advanced research in nuclear fusion, and that they have the better location for the international research program.
 Cadarache, the French argue, is already the center for energy research in Europe. It is home to 3,500 researchers, including 400 specialists on fusion.
 Japan argues that the Rokkasho site is next to a port, making it easy to deliver large parts for the reactor. Roads and bridges leading to Cadarache, about 60 miles from the nearest port, would have to be widened at great cost, they say. Rokkasho is already home to a uranium enrichment plant and a radioactive waste disposal center.
 The surrounding province of Aomori is one of the most economically depressed in Japan, and officials there say the center would create 100,000 jobs over its 30-year lifespan. ''This is a project that will completely transform Aomori,'' Shingo Mimura, the governor, said in an interview in Aomori City.
 In Rokkasho, expectations were also high. In an interview, Mayor Kenji Furukawa said the village was already planning to open an international school and other facilities to accommodate the foreign researchers who would be based here. ''We expect,'' he said, ''that the project would also raise the cultural level of the village.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials in Rokkasho, Japan, hope this site will attract a $12 billion center for fusion research -- and the thousands of jobs that would go with it. (Photo by Norimitsu Onishi/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SPACE EXPLORATION (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (68%); NOBEL PRIZES (61%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); SPACE STATIONS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); IRAQ (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



189 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; Lingering Job Insecurity Of Silicon Valley

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: In Productivity and Cost Cuts, a Selective Recovery

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR and MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
For computer scientists and engineers, the 1990's were close to paradise -- until the technology boom collapsed. But even as business has started to pick up again, the job market they operate in has become the toughest ever. 
 While this group represents a comparatively affluent sliver of the American work force, it illustrates the broader forces -- higher productivity, cost-cutting business practices and increased global competition -- that have combined to make job growth throughout the American economy so frustratingly sluggish.
 The Commerce Department reported Friday that the economy added just 21,000 jobs last month, another disappointing performance, particularly when the economy has been growing strongly since the summer and corporate sales and profit are rising.
 Well-educated technology workers have long been at the forefront of American economic growth and innovation, used to working in a field where rapid change is the rule. As markets shift, new technologies emerge and companies die. Yet such changes typically meant little more to these employees than moving rather easily from one well-paying opportunity to the next. 
 That is no longer the case. An upturn in demand for all kinds of workers, including those in technology, may be just around the corner, economists keep saying, but David Friedman has seen no evidence of improvement so far. Mr. Friedman, an experienced software engineer in Austin, Tex., moved from one job to another during the boom years of the 1990's. But his last job ended in March 2001, shortly before the software start-up where he was working closed.
 Mr. Friedman, who holds a Ph.D. in electrical engineering, has found little demand for the kind of software design work that is his specialty. Building software, he observed, is ''becoming the equivalent of blue-collar work.'' 
 Unemployment has risen sharply in computing, making it more like blue-collar work in that sense. The unemployment rate last year among computer scientists, for example, was 5.2 percent, the highest level since the government began tracking this work as an occupation two decades ago. In most of those years, the unemployment rate for computer scientists was under 2 percent. Similarly, unemployment among electrical engineers last year, at 6.2 percent, was the highest in 20 years, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 By comparison, the unemployment rate for all workers, skilled and unskilled, averaged 6 percent last year, a much smaller increase from the low point of joblessness around 4 percent for 2000, and well below the 7.8 percent jobless-rate peak of the early 90's.
 The persistence of record high unemployment among skilled computer engineers suggests that something beyond the usual up-and-down cycle of business is at work.
 ''You have multiple effects going on: automation, outsourcing and business strategy all playing a role,'' said Ronil Hira, an assistant professor of public policy at the Rochester Institute of Technology. In the 90's boom years, companies scrambled to invest in new technology and hire technology experts, eager to tap the new markets of the Internet and fearful that dot-com start-ups might put them out of business. 
 Despite exaggerated claims for the Internet, most companies still operate on the premise that Internet-era technologies can deliver large benefits to their businesses, enabling improved communications with suppliers and customers, better competitive intelligence and quicker responses to shifts in the marketplace. But in a big switch from the past, most companies are now intent on using the technology investments they made in the boom years more efficiently, which means employing fewer technology workers.
 ''In the last few years, companies have been totally focused on cost-cutting,'' said Erik Brynjolfsson, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''The pendulum really swung, and that has led to a lot of the slow job growth.''
 One way companies have cut costs is to send some computer-programming technical support work to developing nations, like India, where programmers are paid a fraction of American wages.
 Lisa Pineau of Plano, Tex., lost her job as a programmer of large mainframe computers in November 2002, as the work was taken over by an overseas contractor. Her $45,000 salary was the second income in her family, but since she lost her job her family has had to refinance its house and sell one of its two cars. Ms. Pineau's husband, Pat, is a manager in the computer center of a bank, and some of its technical work is being sent to an outsourcing company in India. ''If Pat loses his job, we're in trouble,'' Ms. Pineau said.
 The reassignment of jobs abroad has become a political issue in this campaign year. Yet the offshore outsourcing trend, industry analysts and economists say, mostly points to a new round of global competition, resulting from low-cost computers, high-speed Internet connections and the entry into the world economy of countries with large, well-educated work forces like India and China.
 Assuming that the American work force can upgrade skills and, where necessary, move to new jobs, according to many economists, most people are likely to benefit. And so far, these economists argue, the effect of offshore outsourcing on American jobs and wages in general has not been great.
 ''The impact of outsourcing is overblown,'' Professor Brynjolfsson said. ''The far larger factor is substituting technology for labor.''
 As a student programmer, Marc Andreessen and a friend built what became the first commercial Web browser, and he was a co-founder of Netscape Communications, a company that ignited the Internet boom. Today, Mr. Andreessen is chairman of Opsware, which makes software that helps companies run computer data centers more efficiently, with fewer people. 
 Data centers are high-technology engine rooms of modern commerce, used in handling everything from banking transactions to manufacturing operations to buying supplies to tracking customers. In the 1990's, companies built up their data centers rapidly, adding computers, software and lots of people. The traditional rule of thumb, Mr. Andreessen said, is that a data center needs one human handler, or system administrator, for every 20 machines. With Opsware's software, that ratio can be sharply reduced, to one person for 50 to 150 computers.
 In computer data centers, technology -- from start-ups like Opsware and big companies like I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard -- is increasingly being substituted for human labor, much as that process has unfolded for decades on factory floors.
 ''It's very analogous to manufacturing,'' Mr. Andreessen said.
 Such cost savings increase productivity as companies generate more goods and services with fewer workers. And the technology business in general is quite productive, and that seems to be particularly so in the industry's heartland of Silicon Valley.
 Doug Henton, president of Collaborative Economics, a consulting firm in Mountain View, Calif., said that the average technology company in Silicon Valley generated about $200,000 in goods and services for each employee last year, up 9 percent from 2002. That is double the roughly $100,000 produced per employee by technology companies nationwide, and the $87,000 generated by the typical American company.
 Using that perspective, productivity is the engine of national prosperity and high-paying jobs. A study by the Commerce Department last year found that the average annual wage for workers in information technology industries was $67,440 in 2002, compared with $36,520 for all private-sector workers.
 Higher productivity also led to improved profit recently for technology companies. The industry's sales, after a two-year downturn, recovered a bit last year, and total revenue in the United States is projected to grow nearly 5 percent this year, to $394 billion, according to the International Data Corporation, a research firm. Indeed, recent sales figures have been coming in stronger than expected, suggesting that growth could be still higher. ''All the numbers are rolling in higher than we expected,'' Kevin White, an economist at I.D.C., said. 
 So what might be the ingredients for new hiring, industry growth and profit, appear to be falling into place. But as long as companies remain focused mainly on reducing the expenses of their computer operations, job growth may be slow.
 ''The productivity and cost-cutting are impressive but it means less hiring,'' said Steven Milunovich, a technology analyst at Merrill Lynch. ''What we have not seen is a lot of new technology projects inside corporations.''
 Yet a shift may be imminent. A survey of more than 450 chief executives worldwide, sponsored by I.B.M. and released last month, found that 80 percent of the executives planned to shift their primary goal this year, from cost-cutting to projects intended to generate new growth. 
 If so, it ought to be good news for skilled, out-of-work engineers like Mr. Friedman, the Texas software designer, who remains eager to work on innovative new projects.
 ''Eventually companies are going to realize they still need creative people,'' he said, ''not to do coding, but to do high-level design.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Barbara Cassidy of San Francisco, formerly a technology company marketing director, has been seeking work for seven months. (Photo by Jessica Brandi Lifland/Polaris Images, for The New York Times)
David Friedman, an experienced software engineer with a doctorate in electrical engineering, sees little demand for the kind of software design work he specializes in. (Photo by Frank Curry for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Marc Andreessen, left, an Internet pioneer and now chairman of Opsware, a maker of software aimed at computer-data efficiency, with Ben Horowitz, the chief executive, who is also from AOL/Netscape days. (Photo by Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Graph: ''Paradise Lost''Although spending on information technology has started to pick up again, unemployment in leading technology fields has continued to rise.Graphs track information technology industry revenue and unemployment rates for electrical engineers and computer scientists, since 1995.(Sources by International Data Corp.
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); STATISTICS (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (65%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (65%) Computers and the Internet; Labor; Unemployment; Industry Profiles; Computer Software; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: MARC ANDREESSEN (59%) David Friedman; Steve Lohr; Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



190 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Promises, Promises

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Despite a string of dismal employment reports, the administration insists that its economic program, which has relied entirely on tax cuts focused on the affluent, will produce big job gains any day now. Should we believe these promises? 
 Each February, the Economic Report of the President forecasts nonfarm payroll employment -- generally considered the best measure of job growth -- for the next several years. The black line in the chart above (inspired by a joint report from the Economic Policy Institute and the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities) shows the actual performance of employment, both before and after its peak in March 2001. The gray lines show the forecasts in the 2002, 2003 and 2004 reports. Notice that the February 2004 forecast, which, as in previous years, is based on data only through the preceding October, is already 900,000 jobs too high.
 Economic forecasting isn't an exact science, but wishful thinking on this scale is unprecedented. Nor can the administration use its all-purpose excuse: all of these forecasts date from after 9/11. What you see in this chart is the signature of a corrupted policy process, in which political propaganda takes the place of professional analysis.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Wishful Thinking on Jobs''The Bush administration has consistently overpredicted future job growth.Graph tracks since 1999 the actual nonfarm payroll employment figures in the millions compared to the Bush administrations forecasts.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Economic Reports of the President, 2002, 2003 and 2004)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ETHICS (70%) Labor; Ethics; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (57%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



191 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 3; SCIENTIST AT WORK -- Niles Eldredge

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Bursts of Cornets and Evolution Bring Harmony to Night and Day

BYLINE: By MARGARET WERTHEIM

 BODY:
By his own admission, Dr. Niles Eldredge is a pretty mediocre horn player. Tootling on a cornet in his living room in Ridgewood, N.J., he pumps out a few bars of Bach, then puts down the instrument with a good-natured sigh.
 ''At a certain point, I realized I was never going to be a master,'' said Dr. Eldredge, the senior curator of invertebrates at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. So he turned to his other great love and devoted himself to science.
 The defining achievement of his career has been the theory of punctuated equilibrium, prepared with Dr. Stephen Jay Gould, proposing that evolution occurs not as a gradual process but with long periods of inactivity punctuated by short, sharp bursts of change. After their original paper was published in 1972, Dr. Eldredge and Dr. Gould, who died in 2002, became household names, at least in the households of paleontologists and evolutionary theorists. 
 Dr. Eldredge, who is 59, came to this radical, staccato view of life by studying the forms of trilobites, an ancient class of arthropods that ruled the earth in the Paleozoic era, some 300 million years ago. Now he is applying the same analytical tools to trying to discern patterns in the evolution of cultural objects.
 He possesses one of the world's finest collections of antique cornets. At the back of his house, looking out on a garden, is what his family jokingly calls the trumpet room. In many ways, a cornet may be understood as a trumpet curled up, and examples of every conceivable curlicued pattern that cornet makers have invented in the past 200 years are arrayed across the walls of this intimate home-based museum.
 It is an alphabet of tubing. Brass and silver pipes snake through one another in a dazzling display of metallic calligraphy. Dr. Eldredge owns more than 500 instruments, though only about 300 are on display. There are short-belled cornets and long-belled ones. Some have fixed pipes, others movable or tunable slides. Dr. Eldredge can wax lyrical about the minutiae of each model.
 ''I'm doing now with cornets exactly what I used to do with trilobites,'' he said: measuring, analyzing and cataloging the myriad gradations of their forms.
 Just as the detailed study of ancient arthropods led Dr. Eldredge to discern an unsuspected pattern in biological evolution, so he hopes that by studying cornets he can find ''a meta-theoretical, structural framework for a general theory of material cultural evolution.''
 Generally, biologists view evolution in strictly physical terms: how does a wing or a jaw change over time? But in the early 1980's, Dr. Eldredge said, he started thinking about evolution ''as the transmission of patterns of information.'' Around that time, his wife, Michelle, a public television executive on Long Island, gave him an antique cornet she had found in a thrift store. She later found a dealer who specialized in old horns, and, Dr. Eldredge says, he was hooked. 
 ''I'm a maniac,'' he says.
 As the collection grew, he began to realize that ''the basic cornet designs are essentially packages of information, of cultural material information, similar to species in the biological realm.'' 
 Nearly 150 years ago, Darwin argued that if evolution occurred, then we should expect to see a hierarchically nested set of relationships in the fossil record. Dr. Eldredge began to ask himself if similar patterns could be expected in the evolution of material cultural artifacts.
 There is no question, said Ilya Temkin, that ''musical instruments remember their past.'' Like Dr. Eldredge, Mr. Temkin is an evolutionary biologist and a musical instrument enthusiast. He is an expert on the Baltic psaltery, a zitherlike instrument played in Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Finland and northwestern Russia. Along with Dr. Eldredge, Mr. Temkin has been applying the methods of scientific classification he normally uses to study pearl oysters to look for patterns in the evolution of psalteries.
 This idiosyncratic collision of science and organology, or the study of musical instruments, has brought the two biologists together. Mr. Temkin is helping Dr. Eldredge analyze his vast cache of cornet data.
 Biologists classify organisms according to specific sets of characteristics or ''vectors'': the shape of a wing, the length of a femur and so on. Dr. Eldredge has chosen 17 vectors that capture the essential anatomical features of the cornet. He has been measuring his specimens and adding the information to his own database. He and Mr. Temkin are interested in using the data to explore the way new ideas and designs spread through an instrument population.
 Both scientists emphasize that there are distinct differences between the evolution of biological and cultural systems. For one thing, Mr. Temkin noted dryly, all biological species share a common ancestor, but ''there is no evidence musical instruments share a single origin.'' 
 While adaptations in biological systems are usually passed on in a strict line of descent from parent to offspring, culturally produced objects are also subject to what is called lateral transmission. Once a manufacturer comes up with an innovation -- say a new style of cornet valve -- it can easily be copied by others, spreading the new pattern across the population pool.
 ''It's as if genes could move across subgroups of the species,'' Dr. Eldredge says.
 He calls the mechanism ''theft of idea'' and notes that it is rampant in the industrial world. In biological systems, lateral transmission occurs at the bacterial level and even among plants, but it is rare among higher-level organisms. Dr. Eldredge says rather different patterns of evolution can be expected among cultural material objects. And that indeed is what he has found. The family tree of cornets, for example, has many more branches than the family tree of trilobites or most other organic species, he says.
 Or as Mr. Temkin put it, ''Niles's trees tend to look more like bushes.'' 
 Since cornets are stamped with serial numbers, these trees can also be cross-checked against manufacturing dates. That is an extremely useful feature, Dr. Eldredge said, noting, ''Trilobites don't come with serial numbers.''
 This type of analysis can also provide a practical check of hypotheses about how an artifact spreads geographically. In the case of the psaltery, all the groups that use the instrument regard it as an ''essential symbol of their ethnic identity,'' Mr. Temkin said. And, each claims to have invented it.
 Using a set of 30 vectors, Mr. Temkin generated family trees for the instrument. They appear to confirm a theory that the psaltery evolved from an ancestor to the south, coming through the Slavs to the Balts and then to the Finns, with a subsequent reborrowing by the Russians. It is a contentious theory, Mr. Temkin said, ''but it seems to be most consistent with the results of phylogenetic analysis.''
 For Dr. Eldredge, one reason to study the evolution of cultural artifacts is to improve the understanding of the interaction between what he calls genealogical and economic hierarchies. It has long been recognized that natural systems are genealogically nested: a genus is made up of many species, a species of many individuals, and an individual of many genes. But Dr. Eldredge says that organisms also operate in a kind of economic hierarchy.
 Individuals are members of local subpopulations, known as demes. Demes compete for resources within local ecosystems, which in turn operate within wider-ranging ecosystems. 
 This hierarchy is also present in material culture; only in this case the economic side is more evident. Here, Dr. Eldredge says, ''the marketplace is the ecosystem.'' And just as interruptions to natural ecosystems affect the fate of biological species, so wars and depressions and shifts in taste affect the economic landscape of the cultural marketplace, enhancing or hindering survival of material ''species.''
 In the late 19th century, the United States had more than 10,000 town bands, providing a thriving market for musical instruments. But as radio brought an alternative source of music, most town bands disappeared. What saved the instrument business was the rise of the school band in the 1920's. Yet the cornet, long a mainstay of any band, almost went extinct when Louis Armstrong switched to a B-flat trumpet in the mid-20's.
 This pattern -- obscure species' bursting to the fore, as the trumpet did, in the wake of an ecological disruption -- ''strongly reminds one of the situation between mammals and dinosaurs,'' Dr. Eldredge wrote in a recent paper.
 He says his preliminary analysis of cornet evolution suggests that material culture is also characterized by periods of relative inactivity punctuated by intense bursts of change.
 In culture, as in nature, he says, the economic environment inevitably serves as an unpredictable force, driving some species to extinction. Yet death is also the engine of innovation. As one group dies, it is replaced by new forms. The dinosaurs were replaced by mammals, the cornet by the trumpet: in music, as in life, styles change, but the beat goes on.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Niles Eldredge with his cornets at home in Ridgewood, N.J. He also makes music with paleontology. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); EVOLUTION THEORY (90%); ARTHROPODS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HISTORY (76%); ANIMALS (76%); BIOLOGY (75%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



192 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Technology Shares and Other Recent Big Gainers Retreat

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, led by technology shares, as investors shifted out of companies that have led the market's rally during the last year. 
 ''There is some fear in the marketplace that the winners of the past have run their course,'' said Matthew Brown, who helps manage $26 billion at the Wilmington Trust Corporation in Wilmington, Del. 
 ''Earnings growth, while positive, will start to trend lower this year.''
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 9.66 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,147.20. Technology shares accounted for half the drop. 
 The Nasdaq composite index, which gets 40 percent of its value from computer-related companies, declined 38.85 points, or 1.9 percent, to 2,008.78.
 The Dow Jones industrial average lost 66.07 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,529.48.
 More than 1.28 billion shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange.
 The S.&P. 500 has rallied 43 percent since touching its 2003 low on March 11, bolstered by the fastest economic growth in two decades and the Federal Reserve's lowest benchmark interest rate since 1958.
 An index of technology shares in the benchmark has climbed 50 percent since the market's 2003 low, fourth best among the S.&P. 500's 10 industry groups. 
 Energy shares -- yesterday's best performers in the S.&P. 500 -- ranked eighth.
 Intel lost $1.25, to $27.70.
 Texas Instruments, which will give an update on results for the first quarter after the market closes today, fell 87 cents, to $30.60.
 The Nasdaq dropped for the fourth day in five and, like the S.&P. 500, had its largest decline in about a month. The Nasdaq has lost 6.7 percent since Jan. 26, when it reached its high for the rally. The S.&P. 500 has fallen 0.7 percent since Jan. 26.
 Class A shares of Berkshire Hathaway, run by the billionaire Warren E. Buffett, rose $1,000, to $94,000, after the company said quarterly profit doubled. Berkshire, whose subsidiaries include International Dairy Queen and Geico, said investment gains rose threefold and the company raised prices at insurance units.
 Mr. Buffett said in his annual letter to shareholders that he ''can't find anything exciting in which to invest'' and that he regrets not selling some of Berkshire's stockholdings when markets soared in the late 1990's.
 Shares of medical equipment manufacturers rose, led by Medtronic, after a study sponsored by the company showed that its defibrillators reduced a heart patient's risk of dying from sudden cardiac arrest by 23 percent. Medtronic, the maker of implanted devices that correct heart rhythm, gained $1.70, to $50.25. 
 Its smaller rival Guidant jumped $1.11, to $72.61. St. Jude Medical added $1.06, to $77.56.
 Hotel stocks rose after the Blackstone Group agreed to buy Extended Stay America for $3.1 billion. Extended Stay, an owner of 475 hotels in 42 states, rallied $3.43, to $19.23. Blackstone will pay $19.63 a share, 24 percent above Friday's closing price for Extended Stay. 
 Hilton Hotels advanced 51 cents, to $16.47, and Marriott International climbed 44 cents, to $45.86.
 International Multifoods jumped $5.07, to $24.70. J.M. Smucker agreed to buy the company, the maker of Pillsbury baking mixes, for $25 a share, or about $500 million. Shares of Smucker fell $2.61, to $49.32.
 The price of Treasuries rose, with the 10-year note showing its biggest two-day gain since September on expectations that the Federal Reserve will wait until next year to raise its benchmark interest rate. 
 The price of the 10-year note rose 21/32, to 10128/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.77 percent from 3.85 percent on Friday.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 27/32, to 1102/32. The bond's yield declined to 4.71 percent from 4.76 percent.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.765	99.507	High Rate	0.930	0.975	Investment Rate	0.945	0.994	Low Rate	0.910	0.950	Median Rate	0.920	0.965	Total applied for	$43,917,737	$40,399,532	Accepted	$24,885,867	$22,848,117	Noncompetitive	$1,312,330	$1,085,867	

Both issues are dated March 11, 2004. The three-month bills mature on June 10, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 09, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills since November. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); HEART DISEASE (83%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (83%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (83%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); MEDICAL DEVICES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (65%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Stock Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MEDTRONIC INC (81%); WILMINGTON TRUST CORP (72%); INTEL CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%); INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (52%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (52%); ST JUDE MEDICAL INC (50%)

TICKER: MDT (NYSE) (81%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (54%); BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%); STJ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (81%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%); SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (52%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (57%) DELAWARE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



193 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Budget Slows Superfund Program

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8 

 BODY:
Citing budgetary concerns, the Bush administration has proposed new toxic waste sites for the Superfund program at a much slower rate than previous administrations, a practice criticized by state environmental officials who say it masks the true demand for cleanup in the country. 
 On Monday the Environmental Protection Agency proposed 11 sites to be cleaned up under the Superfund program, which lists more than 1,200 sites. The new sites include two in New York State: in Holley, near Rochester, and in Hewlett, on Long Island. The agency will solicit public comment before it formally adds the sites to the Superfund list, a process that could take longer than a year in some cases. 
 While the agency can propose additional sites this year, the Bush administration's pace of adding Superfund sites is less than half that of the second term of the Clinton administration. In 2003 the E.P.A. nominated 14 sites to the Superfund program and in 2002, only 9. 
 At the start of the program, in the 1980's, the number added each year was even higher, sometimes in the hundreds, as the government sought to jump-start the program. 
 E.P.A. officials acknowledge that the slowdown in placing sites on the list. They say a tight budget forces them to balance the cost of cleaning up a site against the risk to the public if nothing is done.
 ''If it is a relatively low priority and needs funding, we would put off listing for a time,'' Michael Cook, the director of Superfund remediation for the agency, said. ''That is not to say we won't list it. That's just to say it would be deferred.''
 The agency has also tried to be more judicious in evaluating sites. ''Not everything deserves federal funding, only the worst of the worst,'' said Marianne Horinko, the assistant administrator who oversees public cleanup. ''If there are other alternatives for costly or low-risk sites, we have to find other alternatives.''
 The Superfund program was created in 1980 to help clean up toxic waste sites. About two-thirds of the sites that are not federal property are cleaned up with money from the responsible companies. Under the original Superfund legislation, much of the money for so-called orphan sites, where no responsible company could be found, came from a trust that was largely financed by taxes on some companies, including those in the chemical and oil industries. Congress allowed those taxes to expire in 1995, and beginning this year, all the Superfund appropriations are coming from general tax revenues. 
 At the same time, Superfund program money from all sources has declined by a third in inflation-adjusted dollars since 1993, according to a General Accounting Office report released last month. 
 In addition, E.P.A. officials say, cleanup costs have climbed significantly as the agency has tackled more complex sites.
 These factors have created a backlog of Superfund sites that have no money for cleanup, and the growing federal budget deficit has made Congress reluctant to give the program more tax money. The 2004 budget for Superfund is $1.257 billion, down $8 million from 2003.
 It is the more stringent screening of orphan sites that has drawn criticism from state environmental officials and some members of an E.P.A. advisory committee on the Superfund.
 ''The purpose of a National Priority List is to establish a set of sites which meet certain criteria in terms of health or environmental risks,'' Gary King, the manager of the Illinois division of remediation management, said. ''Whether the cost is low or high is irrelevant to whether they are listed.''
 Others say there is value in having a site added to the list because of the requirements that come with Superfund status, such as mandatory public disclosure of a site's pollution. ''It's important for people in the community to understand what is wrong with a site,'' Carol M. Browner, the agency administrator under President Bill Clinton, said. 
 The state officials say a smaller list also disguises the extent of the problem. ''If Congress doesn't want to fund the cleanup of sites, that's fine,'' said Victoria Peters, an assistant attorney general of Colorado who sits on the E.P.A. advisory committee. ''But they sure won't fund it if they don't know it exists and they won't know it exists if they are not on the National Priority List.''
 The 11 sites proposed Monday have soil or water contamination from a variety of sources, including lead, arsenic or polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's, the agency said. They are: Jacobsville neighborhood soil contamination in Evansville, Ind.; Devil's Swamp Lake in Scotlandville, La.; Annapolis Lead Mine in Annapolis, Mo.; Picayune Wood Treating in Picayune, Miss.; a chlorinated solvents plume in Grants, N.M.; the Diaz Chemical Corporation in Holley, N.Y.; a Peninsula Boulevard groundwater plume in Hewlett, N.Y.; Ryeland Road arsenic in Heidelberg Township, Pa.; groundwater contamination in Cidra, P.R.; Pike Hill Copper Mine in Corinth, Vt.; and a groundwater plume in Ravenswood, W.Va.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''UPDATE: Looking for Money To Clean Up Sites''Citing tight budgets, the E.P.A. is proposing fewer hazardous waste sites for cleanup under the Superfund program than in previous administrations. An industry-supported trust fund for the program has run out of money since a tax expired in 1995.New sites proposedGraph tracks number of proposed sites for hazardous waste cleanup since 1992.*In 1995, Congress introduced a requirement that governors write letters in support of proposed sites.Superfund appropriationsIn billions
adjusted for inflation in fiscal 2003 dollarsGraph tracks the amount of money in billions that the Superfund got from general revenues and trust funds since 1994.For fiscal years ending Sept. 30(Sources by E.P.A.
 General Accounting Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERFUND (95%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Superfund

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: Jennifer 8 Lee; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



194 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: An Interim President for Haiti Is Sworn In

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN and TIM WEINER

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, March 8 

 BODY:
Interim President Boniface Alexandre was installed in the National Palace in a brief, awkward ceremony on Monday, as hundreds of supporters of Haiti's exiled president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, marched through the capital, chanting ''Aristide or death!''
 A power struggle continued in the city's streets and its salons with the search for a new prime minister, a day after Aristide loyalists opened fire on anti-Aristide demonstrators near the presidential palace. Six people were killed and about 30 wounded. United States marines said on Monday that their return fire had killed one gunman. 
 The United States ambassador, James B. Foley, called the deaths of opposition marchers and a foreign journalist tragic, but praised the actions of the marines and French troops, saying the city's security situation was rapidly improving.
 ''It is really a matter of time before the multinational interim force is able to exercise authority over the entire city,'' Mr. Foley said in an interview on Monday with The New York Times. ''Each day we are stronger and each day we are in a better position to provide security.''
 In his first public appearance since Mr. Aristide fled Feb. 29, Mr. Alexandre called on Haitians to unite for the good of the nation.
 ''We are all brothers and sisters,'' Mr. Alexandre said, his voice unsteady, as he read from a prepared text, his eyes never leaving the paper. ''We are all in the same boat. If it sinks, we all sink together.''
 Mr. Alexandre, as Haiti's chief justice, became interim president under a constitutional provision for the top judge to fill any vacancy in the presidency, with Parliament's approval. But the legislature was disbanded in January, so he has not been approved.
 The United States is hoping for a stable, pro-American provisional government to emerge from eight days of struggle following President Aristide's departure under American pressure and on an American aircraft.
 A seven-member council set up to restore civil authority under a plan by the 15-nation Caribbean Community interviewed three candidates for prime minister on Monday.
 The three are Herard Abraham, a lieutenant general in the now disbanded Haitian Army, who briefly led an army junta in 1990 but ceded power to a civilian; Smarck Michel, a former Aristide prime minister; and Gerard Latortue, an international business consultant who served as foreign minister in 1988.
 Prime Minister Yvon Neptune, the last holdout from Mr. Aristide's government, has been taking shelter in his office since rebels destroyed his home, according to Yvon Feuille, who was until January was president of the Senate. Mr. Feuille said he expected a new prime minister to be appointed as early as Tuesday.
 The violence on Sunday led to the first armed action by international troops since they began arriving in strength on Feb. 29, the day Mr. Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected president, went into exile.
 Col. Charles Gurganus, a spokesman for the marines stationed here, said the Americans opened fire on an armed man firing at them and at demonstrators, as well as on another gunman who escaped.
 He defended the marines, who were criticized by many Haitians for moving too slowly to quell the violence. ''Right now this not a peacekeeping mission,'' Colonel Gurganus said. ''It is our job to try to establish the stability which will allow the transition to the peacekeeping mission.''
 An anti-Aristide rebel leader, Guy Philippe, said he might rearm his men in the wake of the violence on Sunday, raising the specter of street warfare between Mr. Philippe's army and armed Aristide supporters, known as chimeres.
 ''If they don't disarm the chimeres, I will reassemble my men and take up arms again,'' Mr. Philippe said in an interview with Radio Vision 2000.
 The weapons saturating the country pose a daunting problem for American military officers and the new chief of the Haitian police. A senior Western diplomat said ''the Aristide government was madly distributing weapons into the hands of lawless elements'' as the rebels seized half the country last month. ''We have a tremendous security challenge on our hands.''
 On Monday, the capital's streets were tense even as marines and French troops patrolled. Less than a mile from the airport, looters sacked the city's industrial park, carting off whatever they could carry. 
 Downtown, near the city's cathedral, about 75 marines warily patrolled neighborhoods loyal to Mr. Aristide. They were taunted by residents, and after a brief confrontation, they left the neighborhood. 
 The country's new police chief, Leon Charles, a former Haitian Coast Guard commander, said in an interview on Monday that disarming militants on both sides of the conflict is one of his top priorities.
 Mr. Charles must also rebuild a force corrupted by Colombian drug traffickers, who pay millions of dollars a year to Haitian officials to ship cocaine through Haiti to the United States, the State Department says.
 The United States government estimates that the value of bribes paid in Haiti by cocaine kingpins is nearly three times the government's spending on police, courts and justice, and that nearly a quarter of the Colombian cocaine reaching the United States flows through Haiti -- almost 80 tons a year.
 ''It's not a recent phenomenon,'' Paul E. Simons, a senior State Department official, said in Washington in September.
 ''Haiti is acting as something of a magnet in the Caribbean for cocaine flows,'' because drugs flow most easily through failed or weak states, he said.
 Two longstanding pillars of American foreign policy here have been preventing the flow of refugees and Colombian cocaine from Haiti to the United States, State Department officials have repeatedly said.
 Haiti has seen 15 governments and army juntas in the past 18 years. Throughout those years, even under Mr. Aristide, who was democratically elected, ''a small economic elite has supported a predatory state'' shored up by ''pervasive repression through army, police and paramilitary groups,'' the World Bank said in a 2002 study.
 In his 15-minute address at the National Palace, Mr. Alexandre urged all combatants to overcome Haiti's bitter history and put down their weapons. ''Remember that no one has a right to do justice for himself,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Crowds backing the exiled president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, pursued American marines in Port-au-Prince yesterday, telling them to go away and shouting ''You kidnapped our president!'' and ''Aristide, five years!'' (Photo by Michael Kamber/Polaris, for The New York Times)Chart: ''Spending Highs and Lows''Drug traffickers, who pay bribes to government officials, have spent more than twice what the government has spent on law enforcement.Figures in $300millions -- Total Government budget of Haiti 2001 est.$30 -- Government spending on police, courts, justice 2001 est.$78 -- Bribes paid to Haiti officials by traffickers 2002 est.(Sources by Government of Haiti
U.S. Agency for International Development
 State Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); RIOTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); CIVIL WAR (74%); ETHICS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); BRIBERY (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%) Politics and Government; Demonstrations and Riots; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Appointments and Executive Changes; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Armament and Defense; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Bribery; Ethics; Finances

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (83%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY & COMMON MARKET (59%) Caribbean Community

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen; Tim Weiner; Boniface (Chief Justice) Alexandre; Jean-Bertrand (Pres) Aristide; James B (Amb) Foley; Leon Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); FRANCE (92%) Haiti; Port-Au-Prince (Haiti); Haiti; France

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



195 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Beijing's Criticism of Democracy Advocates Divides Hong Kong

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 8 

 BODY:
Beijing's heavy criticism of Hong Kong's democracy advocates in the past two weeks is increasingly dividing the public here, with many worrying that the democratic movement has gone too far while others want to press on.
 The division was visible on Sunday, when an unruly throng at Hong Kong International Airport greeted the return of Martin Lee, the founding chairman of the Democratic Party, who had gone to Washington to testify on democratic reforms before the Senate subcommittee on East Asia and the Pacific. 
 Pro-Beijing activists yelled that he was a traitor, while democracy supporters cheered him, leading to shouting and finger-pointing that prompted the police to separate the factions. The police estimated Monday that 200 people had shown up from both sides. No arrests were made during the disturbance. 
 The confrontation was unusual for Hong Kong, where politics have been peaceful in recent decades and where a demonstration by 500,000 people on July 1 against the local government proceeded calmly. 
 By repeatedly questioning the patriotism of democracy advocates, senior Communist officials in Beijing and their allies here and at government-run newspapers appear to have succeeded in putting the democratic movement on the defensive.
 But the price has been to begin upsetting the very social stability here that Chinese leaders have also set as a goal.
 At a budget Chinese restaurant in the Wan Chai neighborhood on Monday afternoon, Eric Ma, 49, a manager of a local engineering company, worried about whether the two sides knew how far to push each other.
 Mr. Ma criticized the democrats for demanding universal suffrage in the election of the next chief executive in 2007. ''They are asking for something that goes too far,'' he said.
 Across the room, Chan Wai, 45, a waiter off duty from another restaurant, studied a horse racing publication and then voiced a similar worry. 
 ''Hong Kong needs democracy -- every country needs democracy -- but at the moment the democratic movement in Hong Kong is opposed to the Chinese government, and that is not good,'' he said.
 Joseph C. W. Chan, a political scientist at Hong Kong University, said ''people's expectations might be lowered'' for democratic changes. But he added, ''That doesn't deter them from saying they want it.''
 Michael DeGolyer, a pollster at Hong Kong Baptist University, said Beijing's recent criticism had damaged its public standing in Hong Kong. But many here admire the rapid economic growth on the mainland while Hong Kong has stagnated.
 Richard Tsoi, a labor union activist, said it was unlikely that any more large rallies would be held until July 1, the anniversary of Britain's transfer of the territory to China in 1997. China promised then to respect Hong Kong's autonomy for 50 years.
 ''It's not easy at this stage to rally people,'' he said. ''It's hard to condemn, say, the Beijing government.''
 Most worrisome for Beijing and Hong Kong leaders alike may be the sentiments of a Hong Kong Chinese businessman sitting at a table near Mr. Chan. The businessman said his employer had already moved four of its six teams in Hong Kong to Singapore, partly because of uncertainty about Hong Kong's political future.
 The businessman, who lives in Australia but comes back periodically, said he and other overseas citizens of Hong Kong felt dwindling enthusiasm for ever coming home to live, and he added, ''That 50-year rule no longer binds, does it?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RIOTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); TRENDS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); ENGINEERING (64%); AIRPORTS (57%); HORSE RACING (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%) Politics and Government; Social Conditions and Trends; Demonstrations and Riots; United States International Relations

PERSON: Keith Bradsher; Martin Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%) HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) Hong Kong; China; Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



196 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Labor Is Feeling Embattled As Union Leaders Convene

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: BAL HARBOUR, Fla., March 8 

 BODY:
As the nation's labor leaders gathered at a luxury seaside hotel here, they were struggling on Monday to find ways to keep the union movement from sinking further after it suffered several recent setbacks. 
 In the biggest confrontation in years, a 138-day dispute involving 59,000 California supermarket workers, the companies trounced the union, obtaining a two-tier contract that means lower wages and fewer health benefits for new employees.
 Organized labor also appeared badly disorganized as unions split over endorsing Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri or Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor, for the Democratic presidential nomination and then appeared woefully ineffective when both of the preferred candidates flopped.
 And labor was embarrassed by a January government report showing that union membership fell by nearly 400,000 last year and that the percentage of workers belonging to unions dropped to 12.9 percent, down from 35 percent in the 1950's. 
 ''Labor is in a huge crisis,'' said Ruth Milkman, president of the University of California Institute for Labor and Employment. ''In this climate, business as usual will mean a slow death.''
 John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., will face some pressure at the federation's winter executive council meeting here because eight years after he took the federation's helm, vowing to make unions stronger, labor is still in decline. Union membership fell to 15.8 million last year, down 600,000 from when Mr. Sweeney took office. Just 8.2 percent of private-sector workers belong to unions and just 2.2 million factory workers belong, down 60 percent from two decades ago.
 ''There is no question that we have some serious problems,'' Mr. Sweeney said in an interview, pointing in particular to the economy's loss of three million manufacturing jobs in the past three years. ''As aggressively as we have been organizing more workers, we've not able to keep up with the job loss.''
 Several years ago, Mr. Sweeney set a goal of unionizing one million more workers annually to make labor grow again, but federation officials say unions organized 400,000 workers last year. One big complaint within labor is that only a handful of the federation's 64 unions are organizing aggressively. 
 ''They've been saying for years that they're going to increase organizing and spend more on organizing, but they're still hemorrhaging members, and they can't stop the bleeding,'' said Gary Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass.
 For some union presidents, the situation has grown so dire that they say the A.F.L.-C.I.O. needs to focus on just two activities: politics and organizing. Some union leaders even suggest that the federation be replaced by a more aggressive, growth-minded group because the A.F.L.-C.I.O. often seems paralyzed by its requirements for consensus.
 ''As a matter of survival, it is imperative for the labor movement to organize on a much greater scale,'' said John Wilhelm, the president of the hotel employees' union who is widely considered a possible successor to Mr. Sweeney. ''If the present structure of the labor movement can't grow much faster, history shows that workers will invent something else.'' 
 Mr. Wilhelm said it was frustrating that the union movement was declining when workers more than ever needed someone to speak for them because many Americans are losing benefits and receiving raises that barely keep pace with inflation.
 For many labor leaders, the best strategy to reverse labor's decline is to defeat President Bush and elect someone friendlier to unions. Two weeks ago, Mr. Sweeney played a pivotal role in lining up the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s nearly unanimous endorsement of Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee. 
 Union leaders say Mr. Bush has proposed new rules that would deny overtime pay to millions of workers and has pushed for more of the free-trade agreements that they say have weakened the nation's manufacturing base and undercut wages.
 ''This is probably one of the most important political campaigns that the labor movement has ever been involved in,'' Mr. Sweeney said. 
 To increase labor's political warchest, the executive council will vote on Wednesday for a 4-cents-a-month increase in the assessment on the federation's nearly 13 million members, union leaders said. This move would add $6 million to the $38 million the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has allocated to politics for this election cycle.
 Whatever labor's problems, few deny that unions remain one of the most formidable forces in politics, especially because of their ability to turn out the vote. In the 2000 elections, 26 percent of voters came from union households, with labor's foot soldiers playing a pivotal role in delivering Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and other swing states to Vice President Al Gore.
 ''Politically, the labor movement is still very strong, especially on Capitol Hill where they exercise power that is far beyond their numbers in the workplace,'' said Randel Johnson, vice president for labor and employee benefits at the United States Chamber of Commerce.
 Ever since the California supermarket dispute ended two weeks ago in a clear defeat for labor, union leaders have worried about the fallout. Under the new contract signed by the three grocery chains, Safeway, Kroger and Albertson, new workers will have a lower wage tier and, unlike current ones, will have to begin paying $450 a year in health insurance premiums. In addition, the companies will contribute $1.10 an hour for health insurance for new employees, enough for only a barebones plan compared with the $3.80 an hour paid for current employees.
 Professor Milkman said that the wages and benefits of current supermarket workers put them in the middle class, but that would not be the case for the new workers. ''Every employer in the industry will try to get this template,'' she said. ''We don't know where the ripple effects might land.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, has not met his goals. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) Labor; Organized Labor ; Labor

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse; John J Sweeney

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



197 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Ex-President in Mexico Casts New Light on Rigged 1988 Election

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 8 

 BODY:
President Miguel de la Madrid governed Mexico for most of the 1980's, through one of its most painful economic crises, a devastating earthquake and a period of diplomatic tensions with the United States. But perhaps the most widely scrutinized act of his presidency came on the night in 1988 that his successor, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, was elected.
 In an autobiography that began circulating in Mexico this week, Mr. de la Madrid sheds more light on that dark night in Mexico's history. What he reveals is not new, political analysts said. But in 850 pages, Mr. de la Madrid's memoirs give the firmest confirmation to date of one of this country's biggest open secrets: the presidential elections of 1988 were rigged. 
 Political analysts and historians have described that election as one of the most egregious examples of the fraud that allowed the Institutional Revolutionary Party to control this country for more than seven decades, and the beginning of the end of its authoritarian rule.
 Initial results from areas around the capital showed that Mr. Salinas was losing badly to the opposition leader Cuauhtemoc Cardenas. ''I felt like a bucket of ice water had fallen on me,'' Mr. de la Madrid recalled. ''I became afraid that the results were similar across the country and that the PRI would lose the presidency.''
 Thus began the frantic staging of a fraudulent victory. In his writing of the event, the all-powerful former president chooses his words carefully and describes himself more like a supporting actor than the lead strategist. If he did anything wrong, it was on the advice of his staff, and for the stability of the nation.
 On election night 1988, Mr. de la Madrid said, the secretary of the interior advised him that the initial results were running heavily against the PRI. The public demanded returns, Mr. de la Madrid wrote. And rather than giving them, the government lied and said the computer system tabulating the votes had crashed.
 This was the advice to Mr. de la Madrid from the president of the PRI: ''You have to proclaim the triumph of the PRI. It is a tradition that we cannot break without causing great alarm among the citizens.''
 As midnight approached, Mr. de la Madrid learned that the leading opposition candidates were preparing to add more confusion to the outcome of the election by each declaring himself the winner. The PRI, he decided, had to pre-empt them, and without any official vote count, the president of the PRI declared his party the winner. A beleaguered Mr. Salinas did not show his face until the next day.
 ''The electoral upset was a political earthquake for us,'' Mr. de la Madrid wrote. ''As in any emergency, we had to act because the problems were rising fast. There was not a moment for great meditation, we needed agility in our response to consolidate the triumph of the PRI.''
 Three years later, in an alliance between the PRI and the conservative National Action Party, the Mexican Congress ordered the ballots of the 1988 election burned, and the only hard evidence of the fraud committed that July night went up in smoke. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); HISTORY (75%); EARTHQUAKES (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%) Elections; Frauds and Swindling; Politics and Government; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: Ginger Thompson; Miguel de la Madrid Hurtado; Carlos Salinas De Gortari; Cuauhtemoc Cardenas

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



198 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Zimbabwe Reports Seizing Plane With 64 Suspected Mercenaries

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, March 8 

 BODY:
Zimbabwean authorities said Monday that they had impounded a United States-registered cargo plane after its owners lied about the existence of 64 suspected mercenaries and military equipment on board.
 The Boeing 727-100 cargo plane was seized Sunday night at the international airport in Harare, Zimbabwe's capital, Home Affairs Minister Kembo Mohadi told reporters.
 Spokesmen for the State Department and Pentagon said they had no indication that the plane was connected to the United States government. 
 The incident occurred less than a week after the United States tightened economic sanctions against Zimbabwe's government, saying it was undermining the rule of law and fostering political violence. American officials threatened further strictures if Zimbabwe's leaders continued to balk at efforts to resolve the country's deepening political crisis.
 In the past four years, President Robert G. Mugabe has stifled the press and political opposition, and pursued a land reform program that has been blamed for severe food shortages. Repeated attempts by South Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, to mediate political talks with opposition leaders have failed. 
 Last Thursday, The Herald, a state-owned daily newspaper, quoted Information Minister Jonathan Moyo as saying: ''These Americans who are pontificating about human rights and democracy would not recognize these things even if they hit them on their faces. So go tell the imperialist to go to hell.'' 
 Mr. Moyo accused both the United States and Britain, Zimbabwe's former colonial ruler, of harboring thieves and fugitives who had smuggled currency and precious goods out of the country. Britain has also imposed sanctions against Zimbabwe, as have Australia and the European Union.
 The plane seized Sunday landed at the Harare airport for refueling about 5 p.m., according to civil aviation officials. They said the aircraft appeared to be privately owned and under charter. Crew members said only three people were on board, the officials said. 
 Mr. Mohadi said, ''The plane was actually carrying 64 suspected mercenaries of various nationalities.'' He said an investigation was under way to determine their identities and destination. 
 Video footage on state-run television Monday showed backpacks, an inflatable raft and paddles in the interior of the plane, but no weapons. State television also reported that the passengers and crew members, all of them men and most of them white, were taken to a nearby military base. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (89%); AIR FREIGHT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (72%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: BOEING CO (91%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (59%) Sharon Lafraniere

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (93%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (55%) UNITED STATES (98%); ZIMBABWE (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%) Zimbabwe; Harare (Zimbabwe)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



199 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Gay and Republican, But Not Necessarily Disloyal to President

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
As a lesbian in a long-term relationship, Margaret Leber objects to the idea of amending the Constitution to ban same-sex marriage.
 But Ms. Leber, a software engineer and a registered Republican in Jeffersonville, Pa., is also a member of the Pink Pistols, an organization of gay and lesbian gun owners, and marriage is not the only issue on her mind.
 ''Right now, I am leaning toward Bush,'' Ms. Leber said. ''All the Democrats just rolled into Congress to vote for this gun-control bill. Somebody with my values and beliefs can't be a single-issue voter.'' 
 President Bush's support for the gay-marriage amendment drew expressions of dismay and betrayal from many of his gay and lesbian supporters, including some of the 12 prominent gay Republicans who met with him in Austin, Tex., shortly after his election as a show of mutual support. But as the debate over same-sex marriage heats up, some gay Republicans say Mr. Bush may still get their vote in November.
 One million voters who identified themselves as gay voted for him in the last election, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls. That million represented about 1 percent of the electorate and about 25 percent of the gay vote. With both sides forecasting another election-night photo finish this year, a million votes could determine the victor. 
 But being a gay Republican has never been simple. Some, including others in the Austin group, said Mr. Bush had not yet lost their votes. In interviews last week several gay Republicans said they resented the assumption that while straight people worry about taxes or national security, gays and lesbians vote according to their sexuality alone. Some played down Mr. Bush's move as a political necessity to appease his base of social conservatives and said it would have little consequence in the end. Others said they were waiting to see whether the president let the subject drop or continued to bring it up.
 ''There are so many more issues involved,'' said Jim McFarland of Milwaukee, a member of the Pro-Life Alliance of Gays and Lesbians and one of the gay Republicans who met with Mr. Bush in Austin. ''I think he would handle foreign policy much better, he would handle fiscal policy much better. I certainly don't want that big tax cut reversed that he passed. There are other issues that have a big impact on my life.''
 Mr. McFarland said the president's endorsement of the amendment had caused him to ''re-evaluate how much I would support him,'' but it had not yet alienated him. 
 ''I don't think that he wanted to do this, and I think that is indicated by the fact that he made baby steps along the way rather than just jump right in,'' he said.
 Patrick Guerriero, executive director of the Log Cabin Republicans, an organization of gays in the party, worried last month that the president's backing of an amendment might demoralize or cripple Mr. Guerriero's group. But in an interview on Friday, Mr. Guerriero said the Log Cabin Republicans had received a sudden increase in memberships and financial support.
 ''What we are doing right now is we are putting all of our resources to fight the constitutional amendment,'' he said. ''Then hopefully the party and the president can focus on who do you want to be the president regarding taxes and who do you want to be commander in chief when it comes to terrorism.''
 Although Mr. Bush's support for the amendment ''seriously jeopardized'' the endorsement of the Log Cabin Republicans, Mr. Guerriero said the group had not made a decision. ''Our members are intensely conservative,'' he said. ''We are not going to let one moment make us run away scared.''
 Gay Republicans in the administration or close to Mr. Bush said they felt torn between anger at the amendment and loyalty to the president. The Republican Unity Coalition, an alliance of gay and straight Republicans whose gay chairman, Charles Francis, is a friend of Mr. Bush's, said in a statement that ''good and decent people can differ on gay marriage.'' But he called the proposed amendment ''a betrayal of conservative principles of federalism and limited government.'' 
 Friends of Mr. Francis' described him as anguished by Mr. Bush's stance but reluctant to criticize him. Mr. Francis declined to comment. 
 Donald A. Capoccia, a New York real estate developer who was one of the biggest gay fund-raisers for the Bush campaign and also part of the Austin group, resigned his appointment to the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts in protest. ''I am shocked that anyone would be supportive of a president who is endorsing this extreme measure,'' Mr. Capoccia said.
 But of the handful of openly gay and lesbian Bush appointees, so far only Mr. Capoccia has resigned publicly over the issue. Scott Evertz, who was director of the White House office on national AIDS policy and is now a special assistant to the secretary of health and human services, said that despite his open opposition to the amendment he supported the president. ''I am still a respected member of this administration from all that I can see,'' Mr. Evertz said.
 But Mr. Evertz said he was enduring some heated criticism from friends, including some straight Republicans. ''I had a fight with one last night,'' he said. ''She said, 'What are you going to do about this one?' I said, 'I can't do anything.' ''
 Opponents of the amendment have started a letter-writing campaign asking Mary Cheney, the lesbian daughter of Vice President Dick Cheney and director of vice-presidential operations for the Bush-Cheney re-election campaign, to speak out against the amendment. She declined to comment.
 Mike Smith, the former executive director of the Colorado gay and lesbian community center, who became friendly with Ms. Cheney in her old job as liaison to gays and lesbians for Coors Brewing, said that in the 2000 race he asked her how she made peace with her father's politics. ''She said they have a very close relationship, and that he had come to understand her and to love her partner,'' Mr. Smith recalled. ''She had tried not to involve his political life and her private life, in the same way she felt that her own work life was separate from her private life.''
 In the last election, Mr. Bush did little to court gay voters. He appeared at Bob Jones University, an evangelical Christian college that teaches that homosexuality is a sin. He refused to meet with the Log Cabin Republicans. And he opposed some legislation intended to protect gays from discrimination. But after he was elected, he appointed a handful of gays to his administration.
 Brett Robben, another gay friend of Ms. Cheney's in Denver, who used to work in Washington, said he learned to discount antigay statements from politicians. ''Those stands were more for the constituents back home,'' he said. ''It wouldn't be that offensive because it was just, you know, politics.'' 
 Ingrid E. Barnes, a lesbian who is associate director of undergraduate admissions at Pace University in New York and a Republican, said she was shaken but not necessarily deterred from voting for Mr. Bush.
 ''I believe in small government,'' Ms. Barnes said. ''I believe in taxpayers holding on to their money. I believe in individual responsibility.'' 
 She added, ''I think we need to work against this amendment passing, and I think we have to stand with our president on the national level.''
 Brian Bennett, an energy and crisis-management consultant in Long Beach, Calif., an anti-abortion gay Republican and another member of the Austin group, compared his position to that of a Republican supporting abortion rights. 
 ''For the first time in my life,'' Mr. Bennett said, ''I truly understand how pro-choice people feel in the Republican Party.'' 
 ''I am frankly angry and deeply hurt that he did this. I will fight with every fiber in me to see that it is defeated,'' he said. 
 But he said he felt he had to separate his opposition from the amendment from his support for Mr. Bush. ''I am an American first, I am a gay American second,'' he said. ''I am going to support him on the fight against terrorism, and be against him on this amendment. Am I going to vote for him? Yes, I will, very reluctantly and only because of the courageous and gutsy job he has done fighting terrorism.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MARRIAGE (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FIREARMS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GUN CONTROL (77%); TAX LAW (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Homosexuality; Marriages; Constitutional Amendments; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) David D Kirkpatrick; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (87%) TEXAS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004



200 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Bush Budget Plans Are Seen as Not Affecting Economy Much

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8 

 BODY:
The tax cuts and other policies that President Bush proposed in his $2.4 trillion budget would probably have a minimal impact on the economy, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said Monday.
 In its annual report on the president's budget, the budget office -- which provides fiscal analysis for lawmakers -- said Mr. Bush's proposals could either increase or reduce economic output through 2009 and improve it in the following five years. ''However, the differences are likely to be small, affecting output by less than one-half of one percentage point on average,'' the study said. 
 The conclusion comes in the early stages of Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, in which the core of his plan for strengthening the economy has been his call to make earlier tax cuts permanent. The economy and a dearth of job creation have emerged as major election issues.
 Republican Congressional leaders have already decided to ignore Mr. Bush's proposal to make the tax cuts permanent this year because it would raise record federal deficits even higher and because they lack the votes for passage.
 The Senate on Monday began debating a $2.36 trillion budget for 2005, written by Republican leaders, that includes some of the tax cuts Mr. Bush proposed, plus lower deficits and less spending than he sought. The House Budget Committee will debate a similar plan later this week.
 The analysis attributed the budget's scant effect largely to the small scale of the policies Mr. Bush proposed compared with the nation's annual $12 trillion economy. For example, its proposed tax cuts would total only three-tenths of 1 percent of the size of the economy over the next five years and the spending cuts would be four-tenths of 1 percent.
 In addition, the economic impact of some proposals offsets the effect of others. Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the budget office's director, said that Mr. Bush's plan for a health-insurance tax credit would help people spend more money, but that his proposal to establish tax-free savings accounts for retirement and other purposes would encourage them to save -- muting the economic effects of the two ideas.
 ''When you start lumping stuff together, it's not surprising'' that they might cancel each other out, Mr. Holtz-Eakin said.
 Underscoring the uncertainty of some of its analysis, the budget office cited conflicting views among experts on the economic impact of Mr. Bush's proposal to keep tax rates lower on capital gains and corporate dividends. It also said Mr. Bush's plan to keep the estate tax repealed after 2010 ''could have varying effects on consumption and saving.''
 The budget office began examining the economic impact of White House fiscal blueprints last year in response to Congressional conservatives eager to see the ''supply side'' effect of Mr. Bush's budgets. A year ago, the office examined Mr. Bush's 2004 budget and concluded that its impact was ''not obvious.''
 As the Senate began its budget debate, the Budget Committee chairman, Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, said his plan would help reduce deficits by half in three years by clamping down on some spending.
 ''Deficits are far too high,'' Mr. Nickles said, referring to this year's projected shortfall of about a half-trillion dollars. ''It's time to be responsible.''
 Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the ranking Democrat on the budget panel, said the plans by Mr. Bush and the Senate Republicans hid the long-range deficits that loom as boomers begin to retire.
 Mr. Bush's policies ''are truly dangerous to the economic security of our country,'' Mr. Conrad said. ''We have a responsibility to alter that course.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); CONSERVATISM (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Taxation; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004

 
