

201 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Campaign English From Senator Dole

 BODY:
Senator Bob Dole's declaration that English should be made "the official language of the United States" was couched in purest patriotism -- to bind the nation together. But, as a contender for the Presidency, he surely knows this issue is divisive. It reeks of xenophobia and is particularly popular among the conservatives he seems too eager to please.
America is and must remain an English-speaking country. The ability of all Americans to communicate without translation is woven into the fabric of our open society. Foreigners who come here know that learning the language is in their own self-interest. Economic opportunity, employment and advancement depend on it -- even following "E.R." on TV. 
 But requiring it by law is a sign that the society is not so open after all, that people who speak foreign languages are not welcome.
Addressing the American Legion convention in Indianapolis last week, Mr. Dole did not indicate how he would proceed, except to say that "alternative language education should stop." Insisting on fluency in English "is a welcoming act of inclusion," he said, "and insist we must." Most of the pending official-English bills in Congress would require that all government business be conducted in English, except where health and safety are involved. Some ban bilingual education and multilingual ballots.
Nebraska started the official-English movement in 1920 with an amendment aimed at German immigrants. More than 20 states have now adopted official English in some form, mostly during the last 15 years and because of concern over the influx of Hispanic and Asian immigrants. President Clinton signed the Arkansas official-English law as Governor in 1987. But George Bush, campaigning for President in 1988, opposed the official-English campaign then under way in Florida.
America is a land of immigrants. The overwhelming majority have proceeded to learn English if they did not already know it. But it offends the nation's freedoms to tell them they must.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN LEGION (56%); AMERICAN LEGION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (56%); AMERICAN LEGION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (73%); INDIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ELECTION ISSUES; EDITORIALS LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (75%); CONSERVATISM (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); REFUGEES (66%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995



202 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1995

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: U.S. OPEN '95;
Graf Shakes Seles Awake From a Glorious Dream

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN 

 BODY:
She rose like a phoenix this summer after spending 28 months in limbo as she recovered from the emotional and physical trauma of being stabbed on the tennis court by a deranged German man who felt the No. 1 ranking should belong to Steffi Graf instead of her.
It took Monica Seles two years to return to the sport she knew she loved and for a time thought she had lost. And when she came back, she did it with such a vengeance that it seemed it was the rest of the competition and not her who had been idling in involuntary exile. 
 But the first chapter of the magnificent and, through 11 matches, invincible comeback by the 21-year-old Seles reached a tearful end yesterday when the United States Open championship was claimed by Graf, the rival to whom she is bound by the strangest and saddest of ties.
In a wildly uneven final-round match that pitted Seles against the very woman on whose behalf she was knifed in the back on April 30, 1993, Graf prevailed, 7-6 (8-6), 0-6, 6-3, and captured her third Grand Slam crown of 1995 and her 18th Grand Slam singles title over all. It marked the first time that a woman finalist was able to win the Open despite losing a set at love.
The two rivals embraced at the net after Graf, an Open champion for the fourth time and undefeated in seven finals this year, proved conclusively that she is the No. 1 player in the world for 1995. The 26-year-old German leads her career rivalry with Seles by 7-4 but had been defeated by the new United States citizen in three of their four previous Slam finals.
"It's been a dream; it seems unreal; I think I've won every Grand Slam now four times, so that's pretty amazing," said Graf, who received a beer shower from her fellow players when she got back to the locker room.
Graf, who has lost only 1 of her 40 matches this year, said she hadn't expected to survive this final. "I didn't think I had the tools for it," she said. "Monica's been playing so well since she came back, which impressed everybody, especially me."
But yesterday it was Graf who impressed Seles.
"I think Steffi played great," said Seles, who admitted her own iron concentration had more than once been frayed by controversial line calls like the one that cost her the first set's tie breaker.
"She was running down balls that very few people even go for, and she played
better on the key points."
Graf, beset by yet another personal trauma not of her own making due to the August arrest and imprisonment of her father, Peter, on charges of tax evasion, called this Slam "the most difficult ordeal" through which she had ever had to persevere. Graf left Germany the day her father was arrested and has been unable to speak to him since then. Peter Graf faces a jail sentence of up to 10 years; Graf, who has not yet been cleared in the investigation, could be liable for tax penalties estimated at $80 million if he's convicted.
"There's been a lot of obstacles to climb over," said Graf, whose health, because of a suddenly sore left foot and a chronically sore bone spur in her back, has been as troublesome as her family melodrama.
Seles also called this Open a personal success story.
"Wow," said Seles, using her favorite word of the moment. "I made the right decision; I'm doing what I love to do, playing tennis, and my life is moving forward again."
The 1-hour-52-minute final ended the 20-match unbeaten streak compiled by Seles at the Open, where she was the champion in 1991 and 1992. It also ended the 11-match comeback streak she compiled until Graf's powerful performance provoked her into more errors, 42, than she could rectify with her 38 winners and 3 breaks of Graf's serve.
In the third set, it was Graf who picked up her serving tempo and, with her aim and her mental toughness just a notch superior to Seles's, secured the pivotal break in the fourth game.
"I knew I had to play great tennis," Seles said. "I think I did play good tennis."
This was Seles's first Slam campaign since she captured her third consecutive Australian Open title at Graf's expense in January 1993.
That Slam was to be her last until this one because of the intervention of Gunther Parche, the unemployed lathe operator who stabbed her in broad daylight, and in mid-match, and then had a suspended sentence twice upheld by the same German court system that incarcerated Peter Graf.
Although she appeared oblivious to the distraction, Seles performed under heavy guard; each time she went to her changeover chair, she sat with her back to a wall, Wild Bill Hickock-style, though in Seles's case, the wall was a broad-backed security man. Aisle-wide guards also stationed themselves on the stairwells leading to the changeover area, a danger zone instead of a resting place for Seles.
"Sitting in the chair is the worst part," she said of her comeback performances, "because I used to feel safe there and now, in the back of my mind, I can't. Not yet, anyway."
The first set was so inconclusive it required a tie breaker that was decided in a controversial manner that ignited Seles to a fever pitch. Assuming she had served an ace down the middle at set point, Seles was already loping to the sideline when she was shooed back to the service line to deliver a second serve. Graf won the point with a forehand return to the corner, then converted the tie breaker after Seles blasted consecutive forehands out of bounds.
Aggravated by the way she surrendered the first set, which had been the one that determined the victor in 9 of their previous 10 matches, Seles took a can't-miss attitude into the next.
"It made me mad," she said.
The second set was a one-sided story: Seles simply poured on the power and outhit Graf by drilling the ball at every white line eligible to receive punishment. Graf later attributed her lapse to a fleeting case of nerves.
But the tables turned yet again in the final set, when Graf somehow conjured up the same courage, and booming serves, she had used to advantage in the first. After saving one match point with a vicious backhand crosscourt return, Seles buried a forehand in the net on Graf's second set point and immediately trotted to the net to congratulate Graf.
In the opening set, Graf's only opportunity to break Seles came in the seventh game, when Seles compromised herself with a series of nervous errors. But pushed five times to the breaking point, Seles steeled herself and saved them all.
As is their nature, neither one of the champions ventured often toward the net: overpowering each other from the baseline has long been the pattern in their rivalry, and it continued to be the case yesterday.
"We both hit the ball hard, and whenever we play in the future, and we will, I'm sure it's always going to be strong tennis," Seles said.
 
 
MATCH POINTS
 The WTA Tour, without a sponsor since an acrimonious and premature dissolution of its five-year contract with Kraft two years ago, has received an IMG-solicited sponsorship offer from Corel Corporation, an Ottawa-based software and graphics marketer. The multiyear, multimillion dollar proposal includes the stipulation that the tour be renamed the Corel WTA Tour; the proposal has not yet been accepted by the WTA Tour.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steffi Graf exulting yesterday at the United States Open after defeating Monica Seles to win her 18th Grand Slam singles title. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Before her loss yesterday, Monica Seles had been undefeated in 11 matches during her storybook comeback. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times) (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES OPEN (TENNIS) TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (91%); TENNIS (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); RANKINGS (72%); 

PERSON: GRAF, STEFFI; SELES, MONICA; FINN, ROBIN MONICA SELES (93%); STEFFI GRAF (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995



203 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

Monday
 
The National Association of Manufacturers begins its three-day annual meeting in San Francisco. Robert Parry, the president of the Federal Reserve, is scheduled to speak.
 
Tuesday
 
The producer price index, the first of two inflation indicators out this week, is expected to show inflation still in check. Forecast: up 0.1 percent. The index was unchanged in July and fell 0.1 percent in June.
 
The Rockefeller Group is scheduled to present a reorganization plan for the bankrupt Rockefeller Center at a Federal bankruptcy court hearing in New York.
 
H. J. Heinz is expected to report fiscal first-quarter earnings of 69 cents a share.
 
Wednesday
 
Labor Department releases the consumer price index for August. Forecast: prices up 0.2 percent, the same increase reported for July. The index rose 0.1 percent in June.
 
The Labor Department will also report August real earnings. They rose 0.8 percent in July and 1.2 percent in June.
 
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is expected to begin negotiations in Paris over rules to ease foreign investment.
 
The Reader's Digest Association is expected to report fiscal fourth-quarter earnings of 23 cents a share.
 
Thursday
 
The Commerce Department reports retail sales for August. Forecast: up 0.2 percent, following a 0.1 percent decline in July and a 0.8 percent increase in June.
 
The Labor Department releases its initial weekly unemployment report.
 
Friday
 
The Federal Reserve reports industrial production and capacity utilization for August. Forecast: production up 0.4 percent, after a 0.1 percent increase in July. Utilization is expected at 83.5, from 83.4 percent in July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (57%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (57%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (69%); H J HEINZ CO (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (91%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (91%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (55%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (52%); RETAIL SALES (51%); 

PERSON: ROBERT T PARRY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995



204 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/William M. Kunstler;
May It Displease the Court: Quotations of a Radical Lawyer

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

 BODY:
WHEN William M. Kunstler died of heart failure last week, it was a bit of a shock to realize that he was 76 years old. He had the energy of a man much younger, and he seems never to have wondered if the times had passed him by.
The radical lawyer was a man of contradictions. This man-child of the '60's could talk like a legal scholar one day and an aging hippie the next. He had elements of both. 
 He was a first-rate intellect who could match knowledge and wits in court with the best litigators -- and, perhaps just as important, a pioneer of the lawyer's sound bite in an age when increasingly the politics of the law was played out through the mass media. Yet he was notorious for neglecting the paperwork, motions and hearings that are the nuts-and-bolts of a law practice.
He was a man who hugged his friends on the sidewalk and a womanizer who by his own admission sometimes gave short shrift to his family. He spoke contemptuously of people who loved creature comforts yet reveled in his own celebrity.
Some of his remarks were courageous and have worn well with time. Others, including some in his 1994 book "My Life as a Radical Lawyer" (Birch Lane Press), seem to have been startlingly ill-considered, even reckless. Herewith some Kunstlerisms, which unless otherwise noted come from the book. DAVID STOUT
 
 
At the Chicago 7 Trial

Your Honor, are we going to stop this medieval torture?
-- to Judge Julius J. Hoffman, who had just ordered a gag and shackles for Bobby Seale, one of the defendants charged with inciting the riots that marred that 1968 Democratic National Convention.
I just feel so utterly ashamed to be an American lawyer at this time.
-- to Judge Hoffman.
Do me too. I don't want to be left out.
-- baiting the judge, who had just cited one defendant for contempt. The judge was happy to oblige.
 
On Race
 Even Abraham Lincoln, "the Great Emancipator," often referred to blacks as "niggers" and attempted to rid America of them.
Every time I have a different case, I want to be the color or race. I want to be Indians. Sikhs I want to be. Blacks I want to be.
-- 1988 interview.
 
On Women
 It demeans and degrades women in a manner as inequitable as it is gross.
-- 1970 Playboy interview, commenting on Playboy.
For someone with my vanity and ego, it was very gratifying. How could I resist?
-- on women throwing themselves at him.
Maybe when I'm 70 I'll get a third wife.
-- reflecting in a 1980 interview with American Lawyer about starting a second family with his young second wife.
 
On Wealth
 Just get enough to live on. Animals that overeat die.
-- in a 1970 talk to students at the University of Cincinnati.
I feel uneasy and guilty. Why should they have boats and I enjoy riding in them while some other man is brushing off rats?
-- reflecting in a 1970 interview on wealthy friends.
 
On Mobsters
 I cannot regard someone like John Gotti as more evil than someone in George Bush's position.
I must confess to a slight romantic attraction to the folk-hero quality I see in them.
Here's to crime!
-- toast at a 1970 party celebrating a civil suit victory by a gangster.
 
On Politicians
 The Kennedys' real immorality has to do with their lack of ethics as political leaders rather than their sexual exploits.
Reagan was a stupid man who was easily led by the nose.
To this day, I believe Rockefeller was a murderer.
-- reflecting in the book on the bloody 1971 Attica, N.Y., prison uprising.
 
On Violence
 Even though I don't like it, I think it is sometimes entirely necessary for the attainment of certain social ends.
-- 1970 interview.
Every person we execute negates our illusory image that we are a compassionate and merciful society.
 
On Defendants
 You'll see how the police treat young third-world people in the depressed communities of our city.
-- opening remarks to the jury in the 1988 trial of Larry Davis, a notorious drug dealer accused of attempted murder in a 1986 shootout with the police and acquitted of the most serious charges.
Mr. Davis is a man who used to help the police sell drugs. When he decided to stop, they decided to kill him.
-- after Mr. Davis's 1989 acquittal in another trial on charges of killing a Harlem drug dealer.
A proud and dedicated revolutionary who believes one must fight with more than empty platitudes the evils in our national and international society.
-- describing his client Thomas W. Manning, convicted in 1986 of killing a New Jersey state trooper.
Members of unpopular groups should not be thrown to the lions; someone has to stand up for them.
I would . . . never represent an individual like Leona Helmsley, who, although she has the same civil rights as anyone, is a rather detestable character.
It would really have been something to be the attorney who defended Oswald.
-- reflecting, in the book, on President John F. Kennedy's assassination.
 
On Patriotism
 I never stand for the Pledge of Allegiance, because it is not true; the United States does not provide "justice for all."
It is not the physical flag but the principles for which it stands that are vital to our survival as a free people.
-- on a 1989 Supreme Court decision upholding flag-burning as form of protest.
 
On His Career
 Over all, I never counted, but my lifetime batting average is probably better than Willie Mays.
-- 1993 interview.
Candidates may rely principally on divisive "wedge" issues, as the Republicans seize on affirmative action and immigration and Democrats make the most of their support for abortion rights and gun control. This will be a departure from past White House races, when, except in wartime, politicians said pocketbook issues mattered most. Bush found that out in '92. But strangely enough, every upturn in the economy these days seems to accompany a downturn in the President's ratings. In '94, the Democrats got no credit for the improved economy. Still, Clinton will try to get his due.
 
JAN. 29
an even earlier start?
The dates for the primary contests are not set in concrete. If the squabbling over the timetable escalates, the Iowa caucuses could end up taking place as early as today, according to an analysis by Paul Wilson, a Republican media consultant. He says that could happen if states continue leapfrogging over one another to stage the earliest contests. As a result, several states could schedule their contests even sooner, further hastening the primary season.
 
Jan. 31
STATE OF THE UNION
By now, Clinton may have had his last, best opportunity to look Presidential this year. As the Republicans savage one another, Clinton could use the White House mantle to set a confident tone to carry through the campaign. This is a good time to bring up a fail-safe accomplishment that's popular with conservatives: Gore's reinventing-Government initiative. The President might also (as he would put it) brag on an improved economy, if the economy is still robust.
Anticipating Republican attacks on his foreign policy failures, Clinton might emphasize his triumphs, however limited, like Northern Ireland, Haiti and the Middle East. Also look for Clinton to present himself as the anti-Clinton. The man whose mantra in 1992 was "Make change our friend" is likely to portray himself as someone who can prevent Republicans from changing too much, particularly tampering with Medicare and, as he might put it, undoing regulations that could make drinking water unsafe for children. This speech also provides a chance for Clinton to challenge Republicans on a favorite issue of Perot voters: campaign-finance reform.
Also take note of Hillary's guest in the gallery. Will the First Family go with a naked plea for independent voters and invite Perot? Hardly. An unknown? Maybe to promote his anti-smoking drive, Clinton will find some towheaded 12-year-old from the battleground state of Florida who ripped down Joe Camel signs.
 
Feb. 12
IOWA CAUCUSES
This is where you can lose by winning. Just ask Bush, who beat Reagan here in 1980 and boasted about the "Big Mo" that would carry him to the nomination. It carried him no farther than Des Moines. Dick Gephardt learned his lesson after winning here in 1988. "You always get a big bounce coming out of the first caucus state," Dole says. "But probably it's not real."
Even so, Dole's been in Iowa so much over the last three decades that he's called the state's third Senator. But because Gramm tied Dole in an Iowa straw poll in August -- and Buchanan placed a respectable third -- no one is about to cede the state to Dole. Alexander, too, has geared his whole campaign on breaking through here and in New Hampshire. Expect a bitter battle over the hearts -- and votes -- of the politically active religious conservatives, who won't be deterred by the snow to participate in the caucuses.
If Dole doesn't come in first, he might as well pack up and head back to Kansas. Even if he does come in first, but staggers across the finish line, his opponents and the press will harp on his weaknesses, and the second-place finisher will get a lift.
 
Feb. 20
NEW HAMPSHIRE PRIMARY
Unlike Bush, Dole doesn't need to drive an 18-wheeler around the parking lot at Cuzzin Ritchie's Truck Stop to demonstrate his empathy for the working class. But Dole should burn his 1988 New Hampshire playbook and use Bush's rebound here as his model. He cannot afford any compromises in this aggressively conservative state. He'll have to sign every pledge to cut taxes, balance the budget -- whatever it takes. Dole need not be reminded that on the eve of this primary in 1988, his pollster, Richard Wirthlin, was whistling "Hail to the Chief." Dole knows better than anyone that he cannot tolerate a second-place finish.
Dole forces are rooting for Buchanan to place second because they think it could knock the others from the race. In a multicandidate field, Buchanan will have a hard time repeating the 37 percent he drew here in 1992. Still, he has worked this state hard and remains popular. If Buchanan places second to Dole in Iowa and then here, the other contenders might consider stopping by the Sheraton Wayfarer Inn, thanking their supporters and bowing out.
Yet Dole wouldn't want Buchanan to do too well, because that would discourage the true believers on the right from helping Dole wrap up a quick victory. With far less money than most of his rivals, Buchanan knows this is his big chance. "I've got to do well early," he says. "If I can, money is not going to save those guys. Money can't buy you love." Buchanan might be overstating his appeal. Few Republicans beyond those in his own entourage think Buchanan could ever get nominated: he's considered too extreme, even with the party lurching further rightward. But the better Buchanan does, the harder it will be for any other candidate to establish an anti-Dole profile.
If an Alexander or a Wilson or a Lugar places first or second in New Hampshire, watch out. It could set off a no-holds-barred tournament for the nomination.
 
Feb. 21
WINNOWING TIME
If Americans don't know by now who Dick Lugar and Arlen Specter are, they never will. Some candidates may drop out. Others may "suspend" campaigns -- essentially hang-ing on only to keep qualifying for Federal matching money. Those who have stashed a lot of cash may stay in, hoping to catch on in other states.
To get a sense of who has the resources to keep going, see which candidates can afford a chartered plane for their campaign staff and the press, and whether the planes are full. Don't be fooled by candidates like Jerry Brown, the former Governor of California, who by the end of the 1992 primary campaign season was traveling in a refurbished prop. Only those with jets are in the game.
 
Feb. 24
DELAWARE PRIMARY
Gramm has high hopes for this state. In a variation on Al Gore's 1988 strategy of practically bypassing Iowa and New Hampshire (when he realized he'd lose them), Gramm has doted on Delaware and a handful of other states, mostly in the South, to make him competitive even if he fares poorly in the first two contests.
It's a strategy that's never worked. (Since 1952, no Republican has won the White House without winning the New Hampshire primary first.) But this may be Gramm's backup plan. He infuriated New Hampshire voters by agreeing to attend a candidates' forum here, as Delaware was scheming to infringe on New Hampshire's tradition of holding the first primary. He was also playing footsie with Arizona and Louisiana, which were likewise trying to horn in on New Hampshire and Iowa and have contests coming up.
 
March 5
YANKEE PRIMARIES
For the first time, five New England states -- Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Vermont -- are pooling in an effort to wield more clout. This stronghold of moderate Republicanism is Wilson's best shot to find a receptive audience. Wilson is also helped here because his biggest booster is Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts. If Weld can't deliver his state for Wilson, then not only will Wilson be in trouble, but Weld's status as a Presidential power broker will be dashed.
 
March 7
NEW YORK PRIMARY
(A.K.A. D'AMATO PRIMARY)
With the help of Senator Alfonse D'Amato, Dole has the state, with its arcane ballot process, so locked up that it would be a waste of money for others to compete. Expect to hear the other candidates groaning about Dole's having fixed the election. (Dole doesn't dispute the charge, but says, Hey, he got the raw end of the deal in 1988.) Dole will have a few intense days of putting up his armor. But in five days, the campaign will have moved south. And the Senator from Kansas will be 102 delegates richer.
 
March 12
SUPER TUESDAY
For the last six Presidential elections, this has been the biggest single day of voting after New Hampshire. But with all the primaries bunched up this year, it is not so unique that five Southern states -- Florida, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Texas -- are going to the polls today. If Dole or another contender heads into these primaries with the bulk of the delegates, and wins most of these states, he will be hard to stop. But if there's a divided outcome -- say Gramm wins Texas, Wilson wins Florida and Alexander wins Tennessee -- the race will grow more muddled.
 
March 19
BIG-TEN PRIMARIES
Again, if there is a favorite after Super Tuesday, he could seal the nomination by winning the Rust Belt states of Illinois, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin.
Time magazine splashes the expected nominee on its cover: Dole, in a serious pose, with the cover line "One More Mission"; Alex Castellanos of the Gramm campaign suggests "Beyond Charisma" for his boss; Terry Holt of the Lugar campaign offers "Is America Serious Enough for Dick Lugar?" and for People magazine, "Boring Is Cool."
 
March 26
THE BIG ONE
While the California primary is the biggest electoral prize, with 163 delegates (winner take all), this state won't matter unless there is such a fractured primary that there is no decisive leader coming in. This is Wilson's best hope. If he loses here, it not only destroys the Governor's prospects, but is also a humiliating home-turf rebuff.
 
April 1
APRIL FOOL'S DAY
If there's no obvious Republican nominee by now, expect the wrangling to continue through May and maybe drag on to San Diego. What happens, for instance, if Dole wins Iowa and New York and Michigan, Wilson wins Massachusetts and California and Ohio, Buchanan wins New Hampshire and South Carolina, Gramm wins Texas and Georgia and Arizona and Alexander wins Tennessee and Florida?
 
April 5
THE BLACK HOLE
The most interesting aspect of the campaign calendar is not the compression of the primary schedule. It's the four-month black hole it creates once the nominee becomes clear. If one candidate has reached the delegate threshold, enduring an obstacle course of bruising primaries, he's probably so broke he can't afford television commercials. And he won't be eligible for public money until the convention.
But unless Clinton had an unexpected challenger, or blew his money on too many polls, he will be awash in cash, maybe up to $8 million. He could use it to strengthen his image or attack his presumptive opponent.
Paul Begala, a strategist for Clinton in 1992, relishes the opportunities for mischief: "That nominee will twist in the wind from April to August, defenseless. How they get around that, I don't know." Mark Helmke, a Lugar adviser, says it could be "a very dangerous period where there are no more primaries, Republicans have spent their money and Clinton is beating up on the Republicans like crazy for being meanspirited."
An advertising blitz could trigger a surge for Clinton -- at least until the Republican convention. To counter the Democrats, some leading Republicans are urging their party to put aside money to wage a generic advertising campaign. Gov. John Engler of Michigan suggests that the prospective party nominee announce his running mate and the top four members of his Cabinet during that period. (Might he be thinking Vice President Engler?)
Don't look for Dole to do that if he's in first place. "I remember when Reagan announced Schweiker," Dole says of Reagan's early choice of Senator Richard Schweiker of Pennsylvania in 1980. "They had two targets out there instead of one. But we've talked about it." The intervening months could give factions time to plan their convention tactics. Lobby groups on both sides of the abortion rights issue would no doubt pressure Republican-platform drafters. Similar battles over the Democratic platform could intensify.
Or both the Republicans and Democrats might be drowned out as the long run-up time spawns the rise of independent candidates. Look for Perot to continue toying with another bid. Republicans may intensify a courtship with Perot to sideline him. As Representative Hyde puts it, "I hope and pray that Ross Perot decides to spend '96 writing his memoirs."
By now, Bradley should be long done with his book. The question might remain: How serious is he about the plunge? The President should be nervous if the thoughtful Bradley takes to the hustings because he sounds off on many Clinton-esque issues, like the shaky position of the middle class.
But even confidants of Bradley question whether he has the gumption (or the tenacity) to endure what must be endured for a Presidential run, particularly as an independent. At the White House, Michael McCurry, the press secretary, will have other worries during the hiatus before the conventions. He is bracing for Republicans to conduct "the world's longest search for a Vice-Presidential running mate."
But Lyn Nofziger, a former Reagan aide, frets that the candidate, whoever he is, "can screw up royally" during this preconvention period, to the point that Republicans won't want him anymore. "But," Nofziger adds, "you're stuck with the guy unless he does something criminal. Or dies."
 
May 13
POLYPOLITICS?
This is the deadline for independents to file petitions to get their names on the Texas ballot -- and the first big sign of whether 1996 is going to be the Year of Polypolitics. That is, whether there are going to be not just two or three, but four, five or six serious candidates in November. Powell, Jackson, Perot, Buchanan, Bradley and Lowell Weicker are among the possible independent contenders. After Texas, several other deadlines follow fast, most before Labor Day.
While expectations are high for independents this season, it's not as easy for them to get on the ballot as Perot's 1992 drive led people to believe. His bid for President was lubricated with $62 million of his own money. Seven states have already passed legislation to discourage competition from independents. A Democratic candidate for President needs about 25,000 signatures to get on the ballot in all 50 states; a Republican needs twice that amount.
And the requirement for a third-party candidate? More than 700,000 signatures.
 
July 15
IT'S NOT WATERGATE, BUT. . . .
Bob Woodward's probe-and-tell book on the Republican race should be out by now. Candidates sweat over whether the Watergate sleuth will uncover something embarrassing just in time for the convention. "Every candidate's scared to death of it," says Murphy of the Alexander campaign.
But Woodward advises the campaigns not to be thin-skinned. If they can't handle his questions, he says, they had "better find other work."
Woodward is focusing his research on Dole, Gramm, Wilson and Alexander, assuming that one will get the nomination. He's also keeping tabs on his old pal Powell. One risk: Book sales plummet if one of the Big Four isn't nominated.
 
July 17
A NEW STUNT?
Four years ago today, the Clintons and the Gores and eight buses roared out of midtown Manhattan and headed for Camden, N.J. -- the first stop on the first of Clinton's popular bus tours. But don't rely on Clinton to try the gimmick again. It was a romantic notion: two youthful candidates and their wives venturing out into America. Yet the magic may be gone. Clinton is President, not an idealistic, would-be President. The Secret Service would probably have to block off a big chunk of the Interstate for security reasons. Besides, it would be mortifying if Clinton didn't draw cheering throngs.
 
July 19
OLYMPICS OPEN IN ATLANTA
This should steal the spotlight from Presidential politics. Maybe Clinton -- and the presumptive G.O.P. nominee -- will show up and wrap themselves in star-spangled good feelings. That is, if the United States does well.
"I predict a major recruiting war between the nominees for the support of Olympic medalists," says Dan Schnur, a Wilson spokesman. "If Shaquille O'Neal can endorse Taco Bell and Pepsi, why can't he endorse Pete Wilson?"
 
July 22
DOLE TURNS 73
It's one birthday he'd just as soon not celebrate.
Expect Clinton to draw a subtle contrast by making a bigger show of his jogging routine.
God help Dole if he catches a cold.
 
Aug. 1
PRESSURE ON POWELL
If there's a clear nominee, the push will be on for Powell to join the G.O.P. ticket; that is, unless he's tarnished himself with an aborted bid for the top job, or if he's already running as an independent. Look for Powell to want a deal. If Dole's the nominee, he'll want a promise that Dole will step down after one term. Also look for him to press for a broad foreign policy portfolio.
If Powell doesn't work out, the short list would include losers from the primary battle, popular Middle West Governors and, of course, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey. But she could fall victim to the right wing, which may threaten to disrupt the convention if there's a pro-choice running mate. Still, a black or female Veep would be a first for the G.O.P.
 
Aug. 10
DELEGATES ARRIVE IN SAN DIEGO
Genuine drama would come from the unlikely, though plausible, scenario of a brokered Republican convention. If that happens, now is Gingrich's last chance to step in.
If the nominee is a certainty, don't count on much interest from the press, particularly since the networks have whined about the lousy camera angles in the San Diego hall. But watch for the party to do something to cook up suspense. The premium for the party this time is to reassert discipline over the gathering and prevent a rerun of Houston 1992, when the hard right took over the show. See if the G.O.P. prevails in moving the last session to Jack Murphy Stadium so the nominee can make his acceptance speech before a huge outdoor crowd, as John Kennedy did at the Los Angeles Coliseum in 1960.
In the off chance that Alexander is nominated, he won't rule out the possibility of delivering an acceptance speech in his familiar work shirt. "I'll just have to see how I feel that night," he says.
 
Aug. 16
THE AFTERMATH
The convention's over; watch the ticket scramble to the center. The talk about knocking the poor off welfare, abolishing affirmative action and slashing taxes -- that was politics. Now it's time for harmony and moderation. The standard-bearer cites examples demonstrating that he was never that conservative. Expect the Christian Coalition and the National Rifle Association to meet privately to plot revenge on the nominee for betraying them.
 
Aug. 19
ANOTHER BIRTHDAY
Clinton turns 50. (Tipper Gore turns 48.)
He'll never be in Dole's generation, but the President is finally an Adult. Maybe the added gray hairs and crow's-feet (not to say more flab) after a term in the hot seat will give him more gravitas.
 
Aug. 26
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION
For all the talk about Mayor Richie Daley of Chicago trying to live down his dad's fiasco in 1968, the real trouble might be within the Democratic Party. To see how Clinton is faring with his own party, look at the podium at the new United Center. If members of Congress are pushing one another aside to get into the picture with Clinton on stage, that's a good sign. But there is never complete harmony at Democratic conventions, and that's why the party never has to manufacture drama. Be assured that Jesse will be a presence. Maybe he'll want a prime-time speaking slot in exchange for not running as an independent. Jackson, a veteran at building suspense, may stay mum until the last moment. Asked about Democrats who think he's bluffing about making an independent bid, Jackson replies, "Let them live in the suspense of it."
 
Sept. 2
ANOTHER LABOR DAY
Clinton's two most important surrogates, Vice President Gore and Hillary Rodham Clinton, hit the trail in full force.
Don't look for H.R.C. in an apron, but don't expect her in armor, either -- or to be dwelling on health care. Unless she's too stained by Whitewater, Hillary could be the secret weapon in countering the Angry White Male vote. She'll head for big-city audiences where's she's popular and press women to vote.
Gore might take a stab at exciting those who are fuming over Republican efforts to slash environmental regulations. He'll also be Clinton's ambassador to the South, unless the Democrats have totally written off the region. He's Clinton's best, perhaps only, hope to save Tennessee for the Democrats.
 
Oct. 3
NOMINEES' FACE-OFF
The possible date for a postconvention debate. No sweat if it's just the two nominees. But prospects for a multicandidate race may cause great consternation for debate planners, pollsters, the networks and the parties. Janet Brown, director of an independent commission that puts on debates, is already fretting about the logistics. In '92, the commission had to install a bathroom for Perot at the first debate because Bush and Clinton each had one. He never used it. "I'm not in the plumbing business," Brown says. "At least, I don't want to be in the plumbing business."
 
Nov. 3
PRE-ELECTION POLLS
Look for election-eve polls in Sunday papers. A glance at key states could provide a good sense of the electoral college picture. Four years ago, Clinton won 370 electoral votes to Bush's 168, giving Clinton 100 votes to spare. But Clinton, who won 32 states in 1992, has an uphill battle to win back many of these states.
The most important to watch is California; Clinton must have it to win, though that would not guarantee victory. Other key states that Clinton won in 1992, and is trying to recapture, are Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Illinois and New
Jersey.
Some Democrats even advance a scenario of Clinton getting elected without a single Southern state. It could happen if Jackson, as an independent, siphons Clinton votes in the South and Perot drains away Republican votes in the Middle Western, Rocky Mountain and Western States.
 
Nov. 5
ELECTION DAY
What if there's a multicandidate field and the winner pulls less than 30 percent of the popular vote?
Did I hear someone say run-off?

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A collection of quotations from the late civil rights lawyer William M. Kunstler last Sunday rendered a quotation from his autobiography, "My Life as a Radical Lawyer," incorrectly in some copies. He wrote, "The Kennedys' real immorality has to do with their lack of ethics as political leaders rather than their sexual exploits"; he did not say "immortality."
CORRECTION: An article on Sept. 3 about the 1996 Presidential campaign misstated the year that Ronald Reagan announced Richard S. Schweiker as his running mate. It was 1976, not 1980.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William M. Kunstler, who died last Monday at the age of 76. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not availableTerms not available DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LITIGATION (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (50%); RIOTS (50%); 

PERSON: KUNSTLER, WILLIAM M; STOUT, DAVID LARRY DAVIS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



205 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly/Queens

LENGTH: 2053 words

HEADLINE: New York Has Long Been a Capital of Psychotherapy. How Have the Options Changed?

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
IT was always a one-way love affair. New York City adored Sigmund Freud. Freud hated New York City.
He was here just once, in 1909, and he took in the usual sights: the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Coney Island, Central Park and Chinatown. But as he left the States, he wrote to his sister: "I am very glad I am away from it, and even more that I don't have to live there." 
 As Freud was busy denouncing all Americans as materialistic, superficial, prudish and uncultivated, New Yorkers couldn't get enough of the father of psychoanalysis. The International Psychoanalytic Society set up shop in Manhattan in 1911, and in the 1920's there were "Freuding" parties in Greenwich Village where guests analyzed one another's dreams. Woody Allen's oeuvre has certainly burnished the image.
"Psychoanalysis might have originated in Vienna, but it was copied and Americanized, then marketed, and marketed on a scale immeasurably greater than Europe could offer, in New York," Ann Douglas wrote in "Terrible Honesty: Mongrel Manhattan in the 1920's" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1995), her sweeping portrait of New York City.
Today Freud is still a strong, some would say towering, presence. No matter how many of his theories or techniques have been rejected or modified, he is still the one who created the "talking cure," the foundation of all psychotherapy.
But with changes transforming the health-care industry and managed-care companies looking for ways to cut costs, Freudian analysis is taking a back seat to cheaper and shorter approaches like cognitive-behavioral therapy and group therapy. The image of a couch-bound patient free-associating four or five days a week for years on end, while a bearded analyst sits silently by, is largely a thing of the past.
"There are still therapists out there who believe in sitting on the sidelines and just letting a patient talk and talk and talk," said Dr. Robert M. Naiman, a Manhattan psychiatrist who has practiced for more than 40 years. "That was O.K. back in the classic orthodox days when patients coming into psychoanalysis expected that, but in this day and age I think people should and do expect activity and interaction."
More typical these days is a patient who sees a therapist once a week and sits up. The talk may indeed explore childhood difficulties and last night's dreams. But it will also focus on current problems, self-defeating tendencies, relationships and career goals. The therapist doesn't give advice per se, but is clearly engaged, asking questions, making connections and helping the patient achieve insights and, ultimately, positive changes.
"People who go into therapy know the process is going to take a long time, but they still want instant feedback," said Doug Garr, a Manhattan author and editor who has seen three therapists since 1982. "You don't want to lose your mind before you regain it."
In general, psychotherapy today tends to fall into two broad categories: a highly focused treatment that tackles a specific symptom by directly modifying thinking and behavior versus a more global, psychoanalytical approach that seeks to affect a major personality change by expanding insight.
The first approach zeros in on a particular problem or unwanted behavior -- a phobia or creative block, say -- and attempts to correct it. It does this not by looking into the psyche for root causes but by taking a pragmatic tack, involving homework assignments and mental exercises, to change thinking and behavior right now. Cognitive, behavioral and short-term therapies all work this way, and because they tend to move quickly -- and cost less -- they have become the darlings of the managed-care industry.
Dr. Russ Newman of the American Psychological Association said the public was warming to the swifter style of therapy, too. "Taking the economics out of it, I suspect that people are more immediate results-oriented, more symptom-focused, more behavior-focused today than probably they were 15 or 20 years ago," said Dr. Newman, the association's executive director for professional practice.
But many believe that for permanent, pervasive changes in both outlook and behavior, a deeper, longer-term plumbing of the mind, emotions and unconscious works best. For that, there are seemingly infinite schools and approaches, from the waning orthodox Freudian perspective (where the daily couch is de rigueur and the Oedipus complex looms large) to mainstream Freudian analysis (with couch optional, once or twice a week, and there's more interaction) to a number of distinct offshoots of Freud that drop many of the sexual theories in favor of others. Then there are Gestalt therapy, existential psychology, the humanistic approach, and many others that don't spring directly from Freud but still seek to boost insight into the causes of behavior by exploring repressed thoughts and memories.
But one trend that may make things somewhat easier for the consumer is the evolution over the years of an "eclectic" point of view, in which therapists shed a rigid theoretical orientation and instead draw on several different approaches, depending on the patient's needs.
"Once you are talking about a theory, you are talking about a very specific lens and certain things will be exaggerated and others will be minimized," said Dr. Beverly M. Rubinstein, a Greenwich Village psychologist whose overarching approach is more analytical than behavioral. "To the extent that the patient is respected, all of the theories have to be secondary to the phenomenon. In geology, the phenomenon is the rock. In therapy, it's the patient."
Nonetheless, choosing a therapist can be a bewildering process. There are not only many kinds of therapies, but also different types of therapists: clinical social workers, psychologists and psychiatrists. (Actually, anyone can hang out a shingle advertising "psychotherapy," but only these three professional categories are recognized by New York State's licensing boards, which uphold standards and mete out punishment.)
 
NEW VIEW ON MEDICATION
 Clinical social workers have completed a two-year post-baccalaureate program. Psychologists have Ph.D.'s., usually earned after four to six years of study. And psychiatrists are full medical doctors. None of the three types are limited to any one approach, but psychiatrists are the only ones who can prescribe medications like Prozac, the antidepressant of the decade. However, social workers and psychologists usually have relationships with psychiatrists who will write a prescription after a consultation.
In the last 10 years it has become more common for patients to take medication for depression or anxiety. The thinking used to be that if moods were lifted "artificially," people would be less inclined to explore the causes of psychological pain, but the opposite view seems to hold sway today.
That is especially true of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or S.S.R.I.'s, like Prozac, Paxil, Zoloft and Luvox, which have fewer side effects than the older generation of tricyclic antidepressants and have proved remarkably effective. For anxiety, Xanax seems to be the drug of choice.
"People take the medication and find they're able to work better in therapy," said Dr. Clark Sugg, a psychiatrist and director of clinical services at the William Alanson White Institute on the Upper West Side. "They begin to have hope and see that things can be different, and it sparks curiosity. It's almost as if you wake up from a dream."
Many health insurance plans do not cover psychotherapy, only psychiatric care in a hospital setting. But those that do usually require some co-payment and authorize a set number of sessions, like 15 or 20. The therapist can request another set of sessions by detailing the patient's inner turmoil; the notes are then reviewed by bureaucrats who often have little or no mental-health training. Therapists commonly warn patients that although those notes are supposed to be confidential, once they leave their offices there is no guarantee they won't come back to haunt the patient.
It is almost impossible to self-diagnose and choose the one therapeutic niche for you. But just about everyone agrees that individuals with phobias respond best to cognitive-behavioral therapy. Individual personality matters, too. Some people are just more comfortable with a pragmatic, focused approach; others may find it absolutely cathartic to speak in great depth.
 
FINDING A GOOD MATCH
 Most therapists suggest the prospective patient get a few names from friends, family members or trusted co-workers and then shop around. Don't hesitate to ask the therapist: What kind of therapy do you do? What does that mean? How does it work? How long will it take? How much will it cost?
The mantra of most therapists, interestingly, is for the prospective patient to find a good personality match. Even if you can't put a finger on it, if the therapist's personality rubs you the wrong way, keep looking. The therapist should seem caring and attentive and should put you at ease. A sense of humor can't hurt. "There are certainly people in my field -- social workers, psychologists and psychiatrists -- who are real zombies socially," one psychiatrist confided.
There are, to be sure, bad therapists out there. One family therapist, Dr. Neil Maron, said he knew of a psychologist who gives her excess patients to her husband, a salesman, for therapy. Group therapy is known among practitioners to attract the occasional aspiring cult leader to its fray. And, yes, there are therapists who fall asleep during sessions, breach confidentiality or become sexually involved with patients.
Even with a competent therapist, the talking cure can be far from a panacea. "Sometimes, when you understand why you're doing things, it makes things worse," said a woman in her 40's who works in the art world and who refused to be identified. "They say that too much knowledge is not necessarily a good thing, and I think that's true of self-knowledge."
Other patients complain of sounding like a broken record, feeling incapable of acting on their insights and growing emotionally dependent on the therapist, afraid to ever end the relationship. Many worry about all the money they're spending, money that could go into savings or into pleasurable -- and possibly even therapeutic -- activities like travel or continuing education.
Even some therapists think the 20th century could take some lessons from earlier eras, when people struggled with painful emotions and awkward personality traits on their own. "I don't think everyone requires therapy in this generation," said Dr. Maron, president of the Center for Marital and Family Therapy in New York City. "In fact, I think people are over-therapized."
When therapy spawns obvious changes, however, it can be exhilarating. Mr. Garr said he had a volatile temper before working on it in therapy. "It hasn't cured it totally, but it has helped," he said. "I can do a lot of self-adjustment in midstream. The smallest thing used to set me off. Now nothing is so bad that I can't cope with it."
 
 
 
How to File A Complaint
 Psychologists and certified social workers in New York State are licensed and disciplined by the state's Department of Education. Psychiatrists are also licensed by the department but are disciplined by the state's Department of Health. In all cases, an investigation begins once an official complaint form is submitted.
A patient may file a complaint against a psychologist or certified social worker by contacting the Education Department's Office of Professional Discipline at (800) 442-8106. Two of the most common complaints are breach of confidentiality and sexual abuse.
Last year the state found substantial evidence of misconduct in 31 cases involving psychologists and 11 cases involving certified social workers. Punishments ranged from a reprimand to revocation of the license.
To file a complaint against a psychiatrist, contact the Health Department's Office of Professional Medical Conduct at (518) 474-8357. Last year the agency took disciplinary action -- usually suspension or revocation of license -- against 30 psychiatrists for violations ranging from sexual abuse to the inappropriate prescription of drugs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DR. GERD H. FENCHEL, MAINSTREAM FREUDIAN ANALYST; ELANA KATZ, FAMILY THERAPIST (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: "By the Numbers: The Therapists of New York"
Certified social workers: 12,376*
Psychologists: 3,381
Psychiatrists: 1,729
Standard fees per session:
Certified social workers: $60 to $100
Psychologists: $85 to $125
Psychiatrists: $125 to $200
Highest concentration of therapists: Greenwich Village 9th to 13th Streets from University Place to Seventh Avenue.
(Source: New York State Department of Education)(pg. 1)
 
Drawing (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (55%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (58%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (58%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PSYCHOLOGY (90%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); HEALTH CARE (64%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); 

PERSON: WOODY ALLEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1995



206 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 14; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: ATLANTIC CITY;
Missing the Old Neighborhood

BYLINE: By BILL KENT 

 BODY:
TOMMY NARDONE, the crusty owner and cook of the old Brown Derby restaurant, used to dismiss whatever fears customers might have about parking in his dingy corner of the North Inlet. He would assure them that Atlantic City would bloom again, with or without casinos.
For two decades, Mr. Nardone, one of the few city residents to vote against legalized casino gambling, served up big portions of veal and spaghetti. The Brown Derby, one of the more successful of the city's dozen or so mom-and-pop Italian restaurants, had the singular distinction of being on an ocean-front street in Atlantic City's worst neighhorhood. "They used to say, 'If you want to find the Brown Derby, you'd better pack a gun,' " Mr. Nardone said. 
 Today, a new Brown Derby is in a shopping strip in a neighborhood that has bloomed, and then some. Where boarded-up row houses once sagged, rows of bright, powder-blue Victorian-style town houses gleam. Mr. Nardone can even offer his patrons free off-street parking, a rarity.
But business is not what it used to be. Having experienced the best and the worst of the city's rebirth, Mr. Nardone has found that progress has its price.
"I'm paying more for electricity to air-condition this building than I'm paying in rent," said a weary Mr. Nardone, 72, wearing his cook's apron. "On the Friday night of Labor Day weekend, a big holiday weekend without a cloud in the sky, I did $137 worth of business. In the old place, in a bad neighborhood, I did that much on a weekday when it was raining."
A Philadelphia-born contractor, Mr. Nardone opened the Brown Derby in 1973. He cooked while his wife, Tannith, waited on customers.
Oddly, the Brown Derby's dismal location was part of its appeal. The restaurant occupied a narrow row house across Maine Avenue from a wrecked section of the Boardwalk and the ruin of Captain Starn's Pier. At least twice a year, the ocean would flood the area, and patrons who parked on Maine Avenue returned to find their cars swamped. Inside, the Brown Derby was filled with old clocks, photographs and architectural bric-a-brac.
"My customers were millionaires that had yachts in the marina," Mr. Nardone said, "or they were from New York and North Jersey with big summer homes down in Margate and Longport, and even some casino people. They all wanted that home-cooked Italian meal, and they didn't see no bad neighborhood when they came here. They saw the neighborhood they grew up in."
The Casino Reinvestment and Development Authority did not. In 1992, after six years of studies, surveys and political wrangling, the authority broke ground on a $100 million renovation of the entire Inlet.
Mr. Nardone said it "ruined a place that was good enough as it was, that would've come back all by itself if they'd just left us alone." Jim Kennedy, the authority's executive director, disagrees. "Mr. Nardone is living with an idealized version of what the old Inlet was like," he said. "There is no way that neighborhood could have come back on its own."
Most of the casino executives, business people and government officials who admire the new, improved Inlet did not live there in the 1970's. Those who did fought bitterly over the manner and amount of compensation the authority offered. (Mr. Nardone was offered $245,000 for his property, plus $70,000 in moving expenses. He wanted more and is in a legal battle over these and other issues related to the condemnation.)
In June, Mr. Nardone reopened the Brown Derby in a Melrose Avenue shopping strip built by a subsidiary of Harrah's Atlantic City. The casino's employees had frequented the old Brown Derby and wanted it to survive. Michael DeLeva, a spokesman for Harrah's, confirmed that its real estate subsidary wrote a lease favorable to Mr. Nardone.
In June, the casino gave Mr. Nardone a welcome-back party. "I got no complaints against Harrah's," Mr. Nardone said. "They've been good to me." He can't say the same of the new neighborhood; few of its residents eat at his restaurant.
Mr. Kennedy has had lunch there, although he has yet to introduce himself. "I want him to succeed as much as anyone," Mr. Kennedy said. "I like his food."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tommy Nardone at work inside the new Brown Derby. North Inlet redevelopment forced him to move the restaurant to Melrose Avenue. (Sam D'Amico for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BROWN DERBY (RESTAURANT) (ATLANTIC CITY, NJ) BROWN DERBY RESTAURANT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN DERBY (RESTAURANT) (ATLANTIC CITY, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS CASINOS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); GAMING (77%); CITIES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); US LABOR DAY (69%); BUILDING RENOVATION (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: NARDONE, TOMMY; KENT, BILL TOMMY NARDONE (96%); JIM KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995



207 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1995

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 17; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2467 words

HEADLINE: ENCOUNTERS;
Long After '65, Still Fighting to Overcome

BYLINE: By ERIKA DUNCAN; Erika Duncan is an essayist and novelist who lives in Sag Harbor.

 BODY:
THERE were two Tom Levins on that day, maybe more; I could feel that.
The room was low-ceilinged and old-fashioned. If you opened the door of this house that was built by a sailor two centuries ago, you were barely three yards away from the modern-day traffic of Greenport. 
 On the video screen tiny children with dark faces were clapping; they were singing. Tiny children in very formal coats, buttoned up to their necks, carefully, over the clothing of poverty, were marching on Washington.
The Tom Levin of 1965 merged with the Tom Levin of now, who at 71 looked back on the history of Mississippi's Head Start program he directed. I could see Fanny Lou Hamer of Mississippi's Freedom Democratic Party. I could see Sergeant Shriver, the head of the Office of Economic Opportunity that funded Head Start nationwide. I could see Senator John Stennis, Mississippi's most die-hard segregationist.
"I happen to like Senator Stennis as a man," Tom Levin was saying. "He was a gentleman of a culture that was passing. But I fought him as loud and as dirty as any politician."
Tom Levin, a psychoanalyst and liaison officer for a world organization at the United Nations for the rights of the severely mentally ill, was smiling at his younger and older selves speaking, as his presence wove in and out of the Public Broadcasting Company special he was showing to me.
When President Johnson declared his "War on Poverty," and the Office of Economic Opportunity allocated $96 million for a program for pre-schoolers that had to be up and running in 12 weeks, the response was immediate, nationwide. Only from the state of Mississippi, the poorest of the 50 states, were applications remarkably absent.
On the video screen were the signs, "Colored admitted on Tuesdays only," "No coloreds allowed here"-- a voice: "We are not going to do a program for our darkies. This is Mississippi. The strings attached require us to mix the races at a very early age."
Other voices: "If you find a building, get some children, you can keep and teach your own. That was the answer to a prayer. . .
"When you start telling little 5-year-olds they are equal to little white kids, they grow up believing it."
There were many poor white people in the state of Mississippi as well, their photographs intermingled with the photographs of poor black people on the video screen. Once the program was enacted, very few would send their children, who equally needed the exposure to learning, free lunches and medical care. Those who did would receive threats.
Men and women who earned between $10 and $15 as sharecroppers and domestics would be able to earn between $50 and $75 a week taking care of their own.
The spirituals mix with the country music, the photographs of children with insects on them and parasites inside them, malnutrition, anemia. They are playing with garbage outside shacks. Later, children with a butterfly net, catching butterflies in the Head Start preschools, people building their own schools, an investigation begun by Senator Stennis only eight days into the program about the supposed misuse of funds.
On the walls, old-style oil portraits of Benjamin Disraeli's father and Tom's wife's grandparents intermingle with paintings of ships, as every so often Tom pushes the mute button, coming forward in time to explain it to me.
"Ain't gonna let nobody turn me round, turn me round, turn me round," little children are singing, as the Ku Klux Klan gathers and threats of arson mount.
Little children having medical and dental examinations for the first time in their lives, looking wonderingly up at the doctors.
They are working with crayons, and then suddenly they are "voting," on what color they should use -- red or blue. For always they are given a chance to vote, to teach them not to be afraid to register and vote.
"So that they could teach their parents not to be afraid. I remember each one of those kids," Tom was saying, "and the parents who started to say, 'Better my child die fighting for freedom, than grow up unable to be a man.' "
"Those were the sexist days," Tom adds apologetically.
In Tom's eyes -- and this would eventually cost him his job; he would eventually be forbidden to work below the Mason-Dixon line -- Head Start was never just about the children. Rather it was a way of bringing control over economic resources and dignity and respect to poor and black people.
Though after a mere eight days of the program's being in operation, the State of Mississippi and Senator Stennis were trying to break the back of its link to the civil rights movement. Mississippi now has more black politicians, senators and public officials than any other state, a direct result of the people who were politicized in those days.
In a climate of growing suspicion, why was Tom Levin the one who was chosen to mediate between government agencies and civil rights activists?
Tom Levin started out as a child analyst, because in the early 1950's there were almost no men working psychoanalytically with children. He spent an entire year working with just one autistic child.
He was concerned that competition between "good mother" therapists and "bad" actual mothers was weakening bonds that were already shaky. As a man, he had felt that he would be less likely to go into competition with mothers.
Ultimately he was to reject child analysis entirely, out of a feeling that it violated children's boundaries at a time in their lives when they were too vulnerable to experience a real reciprocity.
But there was also another side to Tom Levin. As a street kid growing up in the Bronx he had seen the Depression break the pride of his father, a hat blocker who could barely read or write. He "saw mothers and fathers losing touch with who they were," he explained, which was why what he encountered in Mississippi would move him so much.
From the time Tom was 6 until he was able to leave home at 15, the family lived in 14 different houses, moving constantly.
"I still cry in a movie if I see a father who is unemployed," Tom says to me.
Tom himself only went through the first three grades of high school, and always on probation. He did bit work from the age of 9, and by the time he was 15 was "a kid union organizer."
He took a job as a "nailer," running a pneumatic nailing machine. "I stood up on a carton. And I told them: 'Stop working! Don't give in!' "
As he tells me how he signed himself onto a ship, I think of his sailboat on a pier only a half block away from the old pillared house with its floor to ceiling historic American flag, its few stars arranged in an arc.
He joined the Navy and when the war broke out he was sent to Japan, a situation he calls "a very important transcultural experience."
"In Okinawa, at the time of the invasion, I heard American marines and sailors bragging about raping grandmothers, taking prisoners and knocking their teeth out for gold." And that too formed his consciousness.
He had wanted to be a doctor, and when he came home he worked for a while as a practical nurse. Eventually he was led into the study of psychoanalysis. But almost from the beginning he was uneasy about ignoring issues of class and culture in the focus on individual "adjustment." He didn't want to help patients adjust to what is unjust in our society.
It was during the march on Birmingham, when he was working for the New York Clinic for Mental Health, doing volunteer group therapy, that he turned on the radio and heard about the hoses and the dogs. He said to himself "This has to stop."
He called up the Southern Christian Leadership headquarters, and quickly became involved in organizing health workers to support the civil rights workers.
This became first the Committee of Conscience and then the Medical Committee for Human Rights, with Tom Levin the founding coordinator.
In the winter of 1963, when the three civil rights workers, James Chaney and Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner, were killed, Tom received a call from James Foreman who had organized the Freedom Summer Mississippi Voter Registration Drive, saying: "We need emergency triage. We need doctors."
"It was on June 23, my birthday, I remember," Tom Levin was saying. "We organized 200 medical people to come down.
A letter had come from two leading human rights doctors warning the new recruits that it would be dangerous to try to work in Mississippi.
"I was introduced to Archie Gray, the health director for the State of Mississippi, who said: The only help we need is in sterilizing the 'nigras' and curing their venereal diseases," Tom Levin said.
"Archie Gray turned to the black doctor who had brought me to meet him and said: 'Remember, I'm head of licensing for this state. If you keep this up you know what will happen to you.' "
Tom would show me the clipping from The New Republic which told of an armed attack on his headquarters in which 8 gunshots had been fired, and a globe had exploded inches over his head.
During the summer of 1963 Tom had visited the Freedom Schools and talked to the black high school students, who said: "We were quite happy when we were growing up, playing on the porch, and the family around. We felt loved and cared about. Then, when we got to be 6 years old, we would go to school. And our parents would tell us 'Do what the teacher says,' even though the teachers were treating them very badly and teaching them to be meek."
There was a memory of trust for their parents that the students said was broken by this.
In February 1964, as part of the strategy of the Kennedy/Johnson branch of Democrats to try to break the back of the Southern Dixiecrats within their party, Tom Levin received a telephone call from Polly Greenberg of the Office of Economic Opportunity asking if he would like to write a grant proposal. He finished the proposal that April.
His new organization, CDGM, the Child Development Group of Mississippi, was awarded $1.4 million for a program to start that July.
That was a time when there was a deep suspicion of Government interference among civil rights workers, so Tom said to Polly Greenberg, "The people have to have their own voice. They have to make their own decisions."
"That's what the Office of Economic Opportunity wants," Polly Greenberg replied.
"We decided that no center would be funded unless it was run by a community committee," Tom continues. "By the time the program started in July, already 80 communities had signed up."
Eight days into its operation, Senator Stennis called an investigation into the misuse of funds. "They wanted receipts," the Tom on the screen continues, his voice intermingled with the voice of the real Tom of Greenport and now.
"But the only people whom we could deal with were the small black merchants who wrote their receipts on the back of a paper bag. How can you have 83 centers organized in two weeks, with a million and a third dollars to be spent in eight weeks time without some mix-up?"
As the CDGM staff and the children settled into their new life, seven CDGM project trainees were arrested in a civil rights demonstration. Tom Levin advanced them their bail; he defended the action as a salary advance.
It was unheard of that those who before were afraid to vote or defend their rights, for fear of losing their jobs, would now be able to do whatever they wanted after hours.
Simultaneously the war in Vietnam escalated. Senator Stennis was the head of the Senate Armed Services Appropriation Committee. There was talk both in Congress and in places behind the scenes about the need for the poverty program to take a back seat, to release more funding for Vietnam.
Four weeks into an eight week program, an official decree arrived from the Office of Economic Opportunity that the Child Development Group of Mississippi must move from the church camp at Mount Beulah, seen by the government as the home of the civil rights movement.
CDGM's board, frightened of losing its funding, agreed. The staff, led by Tom Levin, refused. It was Tom Levin's last fight. Both sides asked Tom Levin to resign in order to try to preserve the coalition between the group and the government.
Eventually, another child-development coalition, sanitized and freed from civil rights connections, was formed by Senator Stennis and his associates, as a substitute recipient for the Head Start funds, to try to keep the organization out.
I watch Tom's face. He has not faltered at all in his talking to me. Now I ask him: Have you any regrets?
"I only regret that I did not have more time," he says. "It was not possible for me to continue my work without getting into conflict with the early childhood educational group. I had to have trouble."
When Tom Levin returned from Mississippi he was invited to join the staff of Lincoln Hospital Community Mental Health Center, where he worked on developing career ladders for poor people to enter the health professions.
In the early 70s, he became interested in alternate family styles -- communes, communal families and same gender families. It was during that time that he met his wife Ronny, a family therapist working with the problems of parents of children of artificial insemination.
Then, about 10 years ago, he became involved in the World Association for Psycho-Social Rehabilitation, a group dedicated to the protection of the human, political and health needs of the severely mentally ill, devoted to helping them live in communities and doing away with excessive hospitalization.
Very much an Eriksonian, in terms of his belief in ages and stages, 90 percent of his present day patients are "cases of re-analysis," those with whom others have failed, for to him "it seems right that those who are older among us take on the more difficult cases, drawing on the full range of our experience."
Still as interested as ever in uses and misuses of power in the psychotherapeutic situation, he works to train psychiatrists in transcultural work with groups, so that a therapist coming from Iran, let us say, will be able to understand Hispanics in the Bronx.
"Social change is like Pandora's box," Tom is saying on the screen, as the video nears its conclusion. "You can't control what comes out of it. The government wanted to control Pandora's box and they couldn't. What came out of it was social change beyond what they intended."
As, a little bit later, we stand by his sailboat, labeled, perhaps mischievously, Red, the water buoying us from under the dock all asway, I see from the video still in my mind children singing "Good morning, good morning," even after all their funding is cut.
I see a little girl who hasn't spoken at all in the first three weeks since she came to the center.
She speaks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Levin on the dock in Greenport where he keeps his sailboat, which he named Red. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI; UNITED STATES (96%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HEAD START PROGRAM; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; PSYCHOANALYSIS; CIVIL RIGHTS; BLACKS ; EDUCATION (PRE-SCHOOL) EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (54%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, TOM; DUNCAN, ERIKA JOHN CORNELIUS STENNIS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995



208 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: VILLAGES, EAST AND WEST;
Marijuana Cure: Rx for Arrest

BYLINE: By DAVIDSON GOLDIN 

 BODY:
Once a week for the last two years, Johann Moore would take the subway from his home in Park Slope to lower Manhattan to give away marijuana.
He doesn't anymore. Six months ago he had to start charging for the drug, he said, because of high demand and limited supply. But he insists he's no dealer: His customers pay wholesale. 
 Mr. Moore's customers are the 50 members of the New York Buyers Club, a group he founded for people with serious illnesses, like him, who say smoking marijuana eases their suffering. Mr. Moore generally operates in TriBeCa and on the Lower East Side, where many club members live and where meeting places and drug sources are easy to find.
But marijuana is illegal in New York, even for medical purposes, unless the Federal Government supplies it. So Mr. Moore said he was not surprised when he was arrested three weeks ago on Fifth Street near Avenue B after the police spotted him giving someone marijuana.
Mr. Moore, who is 33 and unemployed, faces a year in prison if convicted on a misdemeanor charge. He said he will plead not guilty when he appears in court on Sept. 28.
Meeting in the basement of a bar near the Holland Tunnel last week, Mr. Moore and club members told how they relied on marijuana.
"I don't get stoned anymore," Mr. Moore said, brushing aside claims that club members use illness as an excuse to get high. He said he used marijuana to ease the discomfort caused by chronic fatigue syndrome.
Most club members, he said, have AIDS or H.I.V. and use marijuana to stimulate the appetite, relieve tension and counter depression. Others say marijuana eases the nausea and pain of chemotherapy, or the pain and spasms of multiple sclerosis.
While critics of marijuana-as-medicine say there is no scientific evidence that it works, anecdotal accounts have been enough to convince a growing number of people like Mr. Moore. He modeled the club on the Cannabis Buyers Club in San Francisco, which he said had more than 4,000 members.
When the New York club began in 1993, Mr. Moore said he would get free marijuana from drug dealers who had lost friends to AIDS. But it soon became too difficult to obtain enough for everyone, so dealers now charge Mr. Moore the wholesale price. Club members -- who must have a doctor's note or other proof of serious illness -- pay $15 for 5 grams, much less than the street price of $50 for 3.5 grams.
One club member, a 40-year-old painter who has had AIDS since 1991, said that marijuana had enabled him to stop losing weight.
"What had been happening before I hooked up with Johann is I'd go to eat, have three or four bites and not be able to finish," he said. "Now I can eat a full meal. That feels good."
David C. Condliffe, who was drug policy director under Mayor David N. Dinkins and now runs the nonprofit Drug Policy Foundation, said that city officials should consider allowing Mr. Moore's club to operate without fear of criminal prosecution.
"You've got a situation where citizens are trying to ameliorate intractable medical conditions," he said, "and on the other hand city officials are responsibly trying to enforce drug laws. But there are ways to reconcile both concerns."
 DAVIDSON GOLDIN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Johann Moore says he only sells marijuana to the seriously ill. (John Penley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK BUYERS CLUB NEW YORK BUYERS CLUB (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BUYERS CLUB NEW YORK BUYERS CLUB (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MARIJUANA; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS) CANNABIS (92%); AIDS & HIV (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (78%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (70%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (70%); CHRONIC DISEASES (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (66%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDIN, DAVIDSON; MOORE, JOHANN JOHANN MOORE (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995



209 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 19; Column 1; The City Weekly/Queens

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: VILLAGES, EAST AND WEST;
Marijuana Cure: Rx for Arrest

BYLINE: By DAVIDSON GOLDIN

 BODY:
Once a week for the last two years, Johann Moore would take the subway from his home in Park Slope to lower Manhattan to give away marijuana.
He doesn't anymore. Six months ago he had to start charging for the drug, he said, because of high demand and limited supply. But he insists he's no dealer: His customers pay wholesale. 
 Mr. Moore's customers are the 50 members of the New York Buyers Club, a group he founded for people with serious illnesses, like him, who say smoking marijuana eases their suffering. Mr. Moore generally operates in TriBeCa and on the Lower East Side, where many club members live and where meeting places and drug sources are easy to find.
But marijuana is illegal in New York, even for medical purposes, unless the Federal Government supplies it. So Mr. Moore said he was not surprised when he was arrested three weeks ago on Fifth Street near Avenue B after the police spotted him giving someone marijuana.
Mr. Moore, who is 33 and unemployed, faces a year in prison if convicted on a misdemeanor charge. He said he will plead not guilty when he appears in court on Sept. 28.
Meeting in the basement of a bar near the Holland Tunnel last week, Mr. Moore and club members told how they relied on marijuana.
"I don't get stoned anymore," Mr. Moore said, brushing aside claims that club members use illness as an excuse to get high. He said he used marijuana to ease the discomfort caused by chronic fatigue syndrome.
Most club members, he said, have AIDS or H.I.V. and use marijuana to stimulate the appetite, relieve tension and counter depression. Others say marijuana eases the nausea and pain of chemotherapy, or the pain and spasms of multiple sclerosis.
While critics of marijuana-as-medicine say there is no scientific evidence that it works, anecdotal accounts have been enough to convince a growing number of people like Mr. Moore. He modeled the club on the Cannabis Buyers Club in San Francisco, which he said had more than 4,000 members.
When the New York club began in 1993, Mr. Moore said he would get free marijuana from drug dealers who had lost friends to AIDS. But it soon became too difficult to obtain enough for everyone, so dealers now charge Mr. Moore the wholesale price. Club members -- who must have a doctor's note or other proof of serious illness -- pay $15 for 5 grams, much less than the street price of $50 for 3.5 grams.
One club member, a 40-year-old painter who has had AIDS since 1991, said that marijuana had enabled him to stop losing weight.
"What had been happening before I hooked up with Johann is I'd go to eat, have three or four bites and not be able to finish," he said. "Now I can eat a full meal. That feels good."
David C. Condliffe, who was drug policy director under Mayor David N. Dinkins and now runs the nonprofit Drug Policy Foundation, said that city officials should consider allowing Mr. Moore's club to operate without fear of criminal prosecution.
"You've got a situation where citizens are trying to ameliorate intractable medical conditions," he said, "and on the other hand city officials are responsibly trying to enforce drug laws. But there are ways to reconcile both concerns."
 DAVIDSON GOLDIN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Johann Moore says he only sells marijuana to the seriously ill. (John Penley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK BUYERS CLUB (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BUYERS CLUB (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CANNABIS (92%); ARRESTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); AIDS & HIV (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (78%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (70%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (70%); CHRONIC DISEASES (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (66%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (50%); 

PERSON: JOHANN MOORE (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1995



210 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 54; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Adrift in Amsterdam

BYLINE: By Rand Richards Cooper; Rand Richards Cooper is the author of two collections of stories, "The Last to Go" and "Big as Life."

 BODY:

THE ANATOMY LESSON
By John David Morley.
Illustrated. 184 pp. New York:
St. Martin's Press. $21.95. 
 A WRITER who sets a coming-of-age novel in the Netherlands makes a shrewd choice. Its major city is the pharmacological mecca of Western youth, and its unvarying landscape offers existential metaphors useful to a certain kind of precocious, disaffected youth. Such a one is Kiddo, narrator of "The Anatomy Lesson," by the English writer John David Morley.
Kiddo is a Dutch-American who describes himself as "an inhabitant of a perfectly level country, without even the faintest rise of an expectation on my horizon." Separated from his mother in America, alienated from his Dutch father, he hangs out with drug addicts and skateboarders, park dwellers, squatters in condemned buildings -- self-described welfare brats who frequent dingy clubs where they snarf up cocaine and Ecstasy, spurning jobs and turning a contemptuous glare on the society that pays for it all.
 Euro-nihilism is often bewildering to Americans, who like failure packaged in guilt, not in an attitude. These are post-industrial lives lived well off the grid of American anxieties and ambitions; crouched in protected pockets of the advanced compassionate state, they exude fierce sloth and a deep, abiding cynicism. Mr. Morley, who lives in Munich, has his finger on the pulse of the syndrome. Here is Kiddo reflecting on Dutch liberalism: "The Dutch are big on tolerance. . . . One half of Amsterdam is on the dole and doesn't mind, the other half pays and says it doesn't mind either. Still recovering from Calvinism, they're prepared to let tolerance and liberalism cost them a lot. It's a purge, an enema. They're terrified of catching the Calvinist germ and coming out in some awful rash of rigidity and intolerance again."
Kiddo's disaffection turns out to be more than just part of the general malaise, however. Like the narrator in Jay McInerney's "Bright Lights, Big City," of which "The Anatomy Lesson" might be seen as a grungy European cousin, he is seeking refuge in cynicism and drugs from a painful loss -- the death of his revered older brother, Morton. Just when we've settled ourselves into the cool drift and casual vandalism of Kiddo's life in Amsterdam, Mr. Morley whisks aside the curtain to reveal a past on another continent, in an American childhood furnished with the familiar mix of sibling high jinks and sharp parental discord. It's a disconcerting shift, like moving from Anthony Burgess's novel "A Clockwork Orange" to Tobias Wolff's memoir "This Boy's Life."
Morton initiates Kiddo into "Capcaa" -- the Correct Assessment of Parental Claims versus Actual Achievements. He also presents him with an imaginary container, called the "heavenly rucksack," in which to stash life's important moments for permanent safekeeping. These inspired games and musings provide shelter from stormy parental weather; when the family finally splits up -- Morton following his father to Amsterdam, Kiddo staying stateside -- it's the end of Kiddo's youth. "A guillotine came down and childhood ended, I mean, just like that."
Reunited five years later, the brothers live for a time with their father. But the reunion is brief. Morton earns a doctorate in engineering at 20 and heads off to America, only to discover that he has a particularly virulent form of cancer. He writes Kiddo with the news, then comes home to Amsterdam to die. And here Mr. Morley's slim and unassuming novel reveals its stealthy ambition.
Taking his title from Rembrandt's depiction of a 17th-century public autopsy, the author works the painting into the novel's plot, and into its metaphysical preoccupations. Obsessively, the dying Morton visits the masterpiece in a museum in The Hague, fascinated by the paradox of art conferring immortality upon a cadaver. He decides to donate his body to the medical faculty at Amsterdam University "on the condition that anyone who wants to can attend the autopsy." It is assumed that Kiddo will be in attendance.
The scene that results is a hard one to read, a violation of a deep taboo, laid out in crushing, relentless detail. But alongside the obvious cruelty in Morton's request is a desperate and generous honesty. The gruesome ritual symbolizes his determination to help his worshipful younger brother with the task of moving on: "I want you to look inside me and rid yourself of any illusions."
And, indeed, the autopsy changes everything for Kiddo, pushing him into an exploration of the darker side of Morton's personality. The closing quarter of the novel turns what looked like a poignant evocation of brotherly love into a harrowing meditation on mortality, mixed motives and the ever-deepening mystery of character.
Mr. Morley's writing is vigorous and persuasive. Though Kiddo now and then betrays a telltale Britishism ("having a bit of a birthday snivel"), for the most part the author gets everything right. Kiddo's voice strikes notes from the bitter and ironic to the exhilarated to the lyrically sad, and it possesses an inconspicuous ease with metaphor that lends freshness and conviction to its insights. ("Both my parents were totally selfish people, with the difference that there was always a spare room for guests somewhere in Moo's selfishness, while Dad never had room for anyone but himself.")
Mr. Morley's four previous books (including "Pictures From the Water Trade" and, most recently, "The Feast of Fools") have generated arrestingly different universes of comparison -- now Kleist and Kafka; now Thomas Pynchon and William Gaddis; now J. D. Salinger -- suggesting a protean creative intelligence at work. If the narrator of his current novel sounds at times like Holden Caulfield ("It kills me the way the tourists goof around admiring this old trash"), you feel confident it's because the author is playing with the influence, not merely reproducing it.
A coming-of-age novel deals in tenderness, in naivete and hurt, and Mr. Morley has mustered them all in "The Anatomy Lesson," conveying the genre's requisite deep empathy even as other elements of his novel (its accumulating surrealism, its preoccupation with the uses of art, its metafictional tilt at stories within stories) quietly point to a detached, potentially post-modern authorial presence. It's an attractive mix. Contemporary American fiction often forces on its readers a choice between head and heart. Mr. Morley's small, brilliant anatomy of love and loss succeeds in providing both.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ANATOMY LESSON, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (70%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (70%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); SKATEBOARDING (69%); COCAINE (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); VANDALISM (50%); 

PERSON: COOPER, RAND RICHARDS; MORLEY, JOHN DAVID JOHN DAVID MORLEY (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995



211 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Will Better Truck Fuel Economy Hurt Safety?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Trucks' Popularity Undermining Gains in U.S. Fuel Savings" (front page, Sept. 5) details the advantages of a higher federally mandated corporate average fuel economy standard for light trucks but omits a significant disadvantage: CAFE as applied to cars results in a significant increase in automobile fatalities, and raising the fuel economy standard for light trucks, utility vehicles and minivans may have even more severe safety consequences.
The possible downsizing in both weight and engine size for light trucks as a result of increased CAFE standards may increase the risk that those lighter vehicles may be more subject to tipping and rollover, or when carrying a full load, to engine stall. 
 In addition, since minivans are used to carry more passengers -- for instance, in family or work car pools -- even greater numbers of serious injuries or fatalities could result.
The seminal study on CAFE and car safety, by John Graham of Harvard and Robert Crandall of the Brookings Institution, showed that to meet CAFE standards, auto manufacturers typically reduce the size and weight of cars; and in automobile accidents, occupants of smaller cars are more likely to suffer serious injuries or death. The study estimated that CAFE causes nearly 4,000 deaths over a model year's 10-year lifetime.
Consumer Alert, together with the Competitive Enterprise Institute, sued the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration for refusing to consider safety in raising the CAFE standard to 27.5 miles per gallon in 1985.
We argued that the downsizing of cars resulting from a higher CAFE standard causes more auto fatalities, and that saving lives is more important than saving fuel.
In February 1992, the U.S. Court of Appeals ordered the Safety Administration to go back and consider the safety implications of its decision to increase the standard. The court said the agency had "fudged the analysis" of record data concerning safety and fuel economy and ordered the agency to conduct a serious analysis of the data and decide whether the associated fuel savings are worth the lives lost.
That shifting to smaller pickups and utility vehicles is likely to result in a jump in the death rate is borne out by statistics from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. The death rate for small utility vehicles one to three years old was 298 per million compared with 85 per million for large utility vehicles. For passenger cars, that rate was 241 for small cars and 109 for large cars.
Individual consumers are in the best position to consider the trade-offs between safety, vehicle costs and fuel economy. Your statement that "millions of Americans use the rugged vehicles only to drive to work and haul the youngsters and the groceries" shows a disdain for consumer choice and the fact that many people who purchase larger vehicles -- whether cars or trucks -- may view these "rugged vehicles" as better answering their safety concerns for their families.
 
FRANCES B. SMITH
Executive Director, Consumer Alert
Washington, Sept. 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CONSUMER ALERT (ORGN) BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER ALERT (ORGN) BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FUEL EFFICIENCY; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; AUTOMOBILES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); PICKUP TRUCKS (71%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); APPEALS COURTS (63%); INSURANCE (62%); 

PERSON: ROBERT L CRANDALL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



212 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: As Women Meet, China Bars Chinese

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 10

 BODY:
As the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women was approaching, China's Ministry of Public Security made Wang Zhihong an irresistible offer.
She could have a rare, extended visit with her ailing husband, the pro-democracy dissident Chen Ziming, on one condition: that she enter Beijing No. 2 Prison, where he is serving a 13-year sentence. 
 For Ms. Wang, it wasn't even a close call.
"Ms. Wang is in prison; how could she refuse?" one of her friends said this weekend.
In this way, China's security apparatus got another educated, free-thinking Chinese woman off the streets of Beijing.
A determined advocate of human rights and democracy in China, Ms. Wang is not the kind of woman China's Communist Party leaders wanted to expose to the women of the world gathered here.
With thousands of dissidents jailed or under house arrest this month and with security around the conference extremely tight, the most striking thing about the United Nations conference, which is entering its final week here, is how sealed off it is from the rest of China, where nearly a quarter of the world's women live.
"The only connection between this conference and China is that if the conference runs smoothly, it is good for China, it helps our international reputation," said a 56-year-old scientist at China's Academy of Sciences. "Chinese television has been telling us how foreigners are very pleased with our hospitality."
China's reputation might not have been well served had Ms. Wang been free to speak out this month. In June, her husband was thrown back in jail after a year of medical parole that was won largely because of pressure from President Clinton and more than 50 members of the Senate.
Since then she has appealed to the United Nations for help. Had she tried to show up at the gates of the conference, it would have been deeply embarrassing to China.
Even for women able to pay attention to the conference, China's censors have blacked out most of the substantive news. It is impossible to obtain a draft of the "Platform for Action," which is freely available as an official United Nations document inside the hall.
The document, when approved, will spell out a bill of rights for women in language that could become an influential standard for all governments.
But the debate, at times so eloquent inside the hall, is swallowed by a gulf of enforced silence outside.
Shortwave broadcasts from the Voice of America and the British Broadcasting Corporation reach only a limited audience of intellectuals. CNN, which is carrying daily special reports on the conference, is becoming less available in China because of new controls.
This weekend, as Beijingers were enjoying cool, sunny weather and a Moon Festival holiday, few women strolling or bicycling through the city admitted to any knowledge about the fundamental rights this conference is seeking to enshrine for women in matters of sex and health and child-bearing, power and politics, labor and economics.
And many of them did not even know that Hillary Rodham Clinton was here last week to deliver a forceful address equating women's rights with human rights.
"Hillary Clinton was here in Beijing?" a young woman who works at a Beijing television station asked in surprise. "I haven't heard anything. I guess she must have said something bad about China, otherwise she would have been on Chinese TV."
But in dozens of conversations, the curiosity and interest of Chinese women in the conference was palpable.
Though few can attend -- and even fewer can hear -- the speeches that ring through the halls of the sealed convention center site, the issues that are being debated in the United Nations forum seem important to Chinese women, which makes their isolation all the more poignant.
For 16-year-old Fang Na, a music student at Beijing No. 3 Normal College, discrimination against women in China's job market is an issue in her life.
"When a female university graduate goes looking for a job, she meets a lot of obstacles that the men do not have," she said.
There is a Chinese delegation to this women's conference, led by Chen Muhua, a Communist Party stalwart. Its members are carefully selected party loyalists chosen for their enthusiasm to defend the party line.
For 61-year-old Guo Ruiyun, an illiterate vendor selling sodas under a circular umbrella, girls' access to education is an issue she relates to. Growing up in poverty in the mountains north of Beijing, Mrs. Guo never attended primary school.
While her four children in Beijing all have attended universities, millions of girls in poor regions of China are kept at home to work while boys are more likely to go to school.
If China's political system ever opens up to allow women to run for office, Mrs. Guo said, "I would be very glad for them to participate in politics."
Wang Zhe, age 23, is a senior in hydraulic engineering at Qinghua University and after she and two of her classmates dismounted their bicycles to speak to a reporter, a plainclothes policeman walked up and pointed a shoulder bag with a videocamera lens opening at its base in their direction.
Ms. Wang, not oblivious to the intrusion, prefaced her remarks by saying, "I am very proud of China to be the host of this conference."
"Of course I would like to attend or participate," she continued. "Maybe it is a kind of sadness for ordinary Chinese women that they cannot participate."
As she spoke, four other plainclothes policemen, who are assigned to follow foreign reporters for the duration of the conference, positioned themselves to observe and record casual contact with ordinary Chinese.
Down the street from Mrs. Guo's stand, Jiang Sufang, 28, was busy repairing shoes on her cobbler's bench.
"I really don't know much about this women's conference," she said, "but actually, if I had the opportunity, I would really like to go and see it, but we are not allowed to go there."
Asked how she knew she was barred from the conference area, she said, "No one told us, but right now we can tell that the law is very strict and many of my friends who do business on the street have been forced to go home."
Ms. Jiang has a single child, a 2-year-old daughter, and would like to have another child, like many Chinese women who feel the pressure of Chinese tradition to bear a son. She had not heard that Mrs. Clinton, in her speech, criticized the practice of forced abortion and forced sterilization in China's family planning program.
Thinking this over for a moment, Mrs. Jiang just smiled and said, "Not bad."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (61%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON WOMEN; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); PRISONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); HOUSE ARREST (77%); PAROLE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); CENSORSHIP (73%); POLITICS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); ARRESTS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



213 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Pat Robertson Declares Dole Is, at Heart, Conservative

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8

 BODY:
Although Pat Robertson and his conservative political organization, the Christian Coalition, have said they will not endorse any of the Republican Presidential candidates, Mr. Robertson made it clear in an interview that he considered Senator Bob Dole of Kansas quite acceptable to religious conservatives.
Without prompting, Mr. Robertson defended Mr. Dole's conservative bona fides, rejecting what he said was recent criticism that Mr. Dole was merely pandering to religious conservatives. 
 "I don't think Bob Dole is being some kind of a chameleon," Mr. Robertson said in the interview today, the first day of the Christian Coalition's two-day annual convention. He said that Mr. Dole was "a lifelong conservative" and that if he was "somewhat of a compromiser" as Senate majority leader, that was the nature of the job.
Mr. Robertson also praised Mr. Dole's main challenger, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, and spoke in friendly or neutral terms about all the Republican Presidential contenders.
He added that he did not expect any new Republican candidates to emerge for the nomination.
As president of the 1.7-million-member Christian Coalition and host of "The 700 Club," a daily television program on the Family Channel, Mr. Robertson has substantial influence among many politically active religious conservatives. He will not endorse any of the Republican candidates at this point, he said, "because it would be perceived that I was, in a sense, speaking for the Christian Coalition."
His evaluation of Mr. Dole's ideological position comes at a time when Mr. Gramm has mounted a strong challenge to Mr. Dole for the allegiance of religious conservatives, some of whom continue to question the sincerity of Mr. Dole's commitment to their cause.
Mr. Gramm said today in a ballroom of cheering delegates at the Washington Hilton and Towers Hotel here that he had signed a pledge backing tough anti-abortion language in the Republican Party platform. Mr. Dole, he said pointedly, had not done so.
In the interview, Mr. Robertson said that he and the Texas Senator had exchanged numerous visits and that Mr. Gramm was "a lifetime, hard-core conservative, as are most of the other candidates."
But Mr. Robertson played down the significance of an event that has given Mr. Gramm's campaign a significant public relations boost of late: Mr. Gramm's first-place tie with Mr. Dole in the Iowa Republican Party's straw poll in Ames, Iowa, last month.
Mr. Robertson noted that he, too, finished first in the Ames poll in his unsuccessful run for the Presidency in 1988. He was ultimately overwhelmed by Vice President George Bush in the Republican primaries. But his victory in the Ames poll was considered a stunning political coup at the time, which briefly gave his campaign a big lift.
"Phil Gramm obviously was given a shot in the arm in Ames," Mr. Robertson said. "I won Ames. I beat Bush and Dole in Ames, so it isn't as significant as everyone thinks it is, except in Iowa."
In talking of the other Republican candidates, Mr. Robertson said that he was "buddies" with the conservative commentator Patrick J. Buchanan, that Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana was "a good friend" and that the conservative radio host Alan Keyes had been a supporter of his in the past. He even gave a neutral nod to Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, an abortion-rights supporter and a critic of the Christian Coalition. "Arlen Specter was a year behind me in law school," he said. He also mentioned a cordial relationship with Lamar Alexander, a former Governor of Tennessee and Education Secretary under President Bush.
"There aren't any strangers out there, except for Pete Wilson," Mr. Robertson said, referring to the California Governor. "I don't know Pete very well."
Just before the Christian Coalition opened its convention, the organization said a telephone poll of 1,000 of its members showed their support was largely divided among Mr. Dole, Mr. Gramm and Mr. Buchanan, with 25 percent undecided. Although the coalition's executive director, Ralph Reed, had declined to be specific about the survey's results, Mr. Robertson said they showed Mr. Dole slightly ahead.
Mr. Robertson also said Mr. Dole's support had dropped from a previous poll of coalition members taken some months ago. "That isn't unexpected, because of the nature of the job he holds in the Senate," Mr. Robertson said. "He's taking pretty controversial issues and he has to deal with them, and in the process, he bruises various interest groups along the way.
"I still think it's Dole's to lose. I don't see, right now, any other candidates emerging."
Mr. Robertson expressed satisfaction with what he said was a move by the Republican candidates during the summer to address what he called "family-moral issues," like opposition to abortion and violence in mass entertainment. He mentioned two speeches by Mr. Dole, one in Hollywood in the spring and one in Chicago in the past few weeks.
"Phil Gramm is moving away, I think, from a purely economic message -- which has been very well received -- to a broad, pro-family message," Mr. Robertson added. He also said similar themes were being struck by Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Keyes and others.
Speaking of the influence of religious conservatives in Republican Party politics, Mr. Robertson estimated that a substantial minority, "probably 42 percent or so," of voters in the Republican primaries "consider themselves born-again Christians."
Did that mean, he was asked, that it would be impossible for a Republican Presidential candidate to ignore the Christian Coalition?
"Anything's possible in politics," Mr. Robertson said, "but I think it would be highly unlikely. It's just impossible to ignore the activists in your party. These are the people who stuff the envelopes, and walk the precincts, and make the telephone calls, and do all the so-called grunt work that brings about a successful campaign. And without them, where are your people?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pat Robertson, left, the head of the Christian Coalition, with an aide, Gene Kapp, at the group's annual convention in Washington. In an interview, he praised the top Republican Presidential candidates. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN COALITION IOWA REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (94%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION CHRISTIAN COALITION (94%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ENDORSEMENTS CONSERVATISM (94%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RELIGION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: NIEBUHR, GUSTAV; ROBERTSON, PAT; DOLE, BOB (SEN) PHIL GRAMM (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



214 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1676 words

HEADLINE: Bank-Poor Communities Are Forced to Improvise

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY and JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
In six years, Silfrido Frias and Edwin B. Canaan have gone from running a one-room paralegal service in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan to establishing Sherman Plaza, a diverse enterprise with 2,000 square feet of new office space that offers paralegal services, real estate brokering, international calling booths, beeper sales and computer training.
The two men are lawyers trained in the Dominican Republic who have pursued their piece of the American dream without a bank loan. Lacking credit history, they cobbled together capital from relatives, credit cards and an informal revolving loan fund financed by other immigrants. Finally, they said, they borrowed $10,000 from a loan shark at interest of 6 percent a week. 
 "It was a nightmare," Mr. Frias said. "We couldn't find people with much money. People don't have enough money to do more than help themselves."
Their story is not unusual in poor and working-class neighborhoods in New York City and nationwide, where the consolidation of the banking industry has hit hard. As bank branches have closed steadily over the last decade, residents complain that banking services like loans and checking accounts have become more difficult to find, harder to qualify for and more expensive.
Within weeks, the announcement of a new round of branch closings is expected as Chemical Bank and Chase Manhattan Bank prepare to merge operations, forming the nation's largest bank. The further erosion of traditional banking services in poor neighborhoods, some financial experts and local business leaders say, is likely to drive more people into a parallel universe of low-level finance.
It is a mixed world of loan sharks, check-cashing establishments and pawn shops, as well as communal, nonprofit organizations like lending circles and neighborhood credit unions.
"People have found all sorts of ways to make do under oppressive economic conditions," said Sarah Ludwig, director of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project in New York.
The most promising development is the growth in the number of credit unions owned by depositors that offer checking and, in many cases, loans up to $10,000. But with more banks closing, and not enough legitimate nonprofit credit unions to fill the void, Ms. Ludwig said, "I can imagine a proliferation of loan sharks and the more shadowy forms of community-based credit."
Such figures are no longer limited to stereotypical mobsters with baseball bats. Earlier this year, prosecutors in Brooklyn broke up a loan-sharking ring that included employees of the city's Human Resources Administration.
As people in poor and working-class neighborhoods have searched for credit, many immigrants have relied on mechanisms they employed in their native countries. In the Caribbean neighborhoods of Brooklyn, for example, or among Mexican immigrants in the Bronx, one of the more popular substitutes for traditional savings accounts are informal networks of 10 or more people who each deposit the same amount of money every week.
Each week in rotation, a different member of the group receives the collected savings. These arrangements encourage members who might not put aside money on their own to save and provide cash for mortgage payments or rent, school tuition or cars. The use of such lending circles has extended to groups of immigrant entrepreneurs who use them as revolving loan funds, even to buy real estate.
"It's a way of saving your money, and a way of pulling together people," said Nuria Williams, a nurse's aid from Costa Rica who lives in Bushwick, Brooklyn. Her group ranges from nurses to welfare recipients. "It's a layaway plan, one that allows you to accomplish something. These are responsible people. People don't always trust banks."
In some cases, the financial needs in these neighborhoods, acute but extremely modest, could not be met by even the best-intentioned bank. And so alternative solutions have taken the form of establishments like Accion Inc. in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Modeled on a formula for small-business financing long used in Latin America, Accion makes loans as small as $500 to taxi drivers and others who run home-based enterprises, like cooks, seamstresses and hair stylists. Accion officials say their default rate is under 2 percent.
"There is an enormous amount going on at the street level -- some of it legal, some of it not," said Mark Pinsky, the director of the National Association of Community Development Loan Funds, a nonprofit group that coordinates loans for neighborhood organizations. "And there are new ones being invented every day."
Some responses to the need for financing, such as loan-sharking, are, of course, illegal; others, like community credit unions, are insured by the Federal Government. And in the middle are the lending circles, which are unregulated agreements among friends or business associates.
In Washington Heights, the partners in Sherman Plaza employed a variety of ad hoc strategies to build their business. They contributed $100 to a revolving loan fund that paid them $1,000 every 10 weeks. They used credit cards and money from the loan shark to buy dry wall, ceiling tiles and carpeting to renovate their new office space.
Their financing methods meant they assumed a far greater risk than foreclosure. If they don't repay their loan shark, "he'll have to kill us," Mr. Frias said with a forced chuckle.
In their neighborhood, there are more than twice the number of check-cashing stores as bank branches, and as many as half the residents do not have checking accounts. A study last year by the Public Advocate's office said Washington Heights had one bank branch for every 22,000 people, one-third the level in Manhattan's wealthiest neighborhoods.
The Public Advocate's office also found that the number of New York City bank branches had declined by 81, or 7.5 percent, from 1978 to 1992. By far the sharpest losses were in the Bronx and Brooklyn. Since 1978, 50 branches have closed in those boroughs, several of which vanished after the merger involving Chemical and Manufacturer's Hanover.
On Cortelyou Road in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, where the closing of a Chemical branch enraged merchants along the commercial strip, Charlemagne Theagene showed up one morning last week with checks in hand. He walked into the storefront at 1600 Cortelyou Road, paused before the rows of washing machines and dryers, walked back into the sunlight and stared at the sign above the doorway that read: Mr. Wash Laundromat.
"Where did the bank go?" Mr. Theagene asked.
Officials with Chemical Bank maintained last week that the closings they plan to announce this month would be decided so that they did not unfairly hit the remaining branches in poor neighborhoods. Carol Parry, managing director of Chemical, said the bank had reinvested more than $1.4 billion into poor city neighborhoods over the last five years, adding that Chemical intended to aggressively serve impoverished neighborhoods.
"There is a natural fear, and until we make our announcement of our plans, people are going to fear the worst," Ms. Parry said. "But that's not the way this is going to shake out. Serving low-income neighborhoods is a challenge for the entire banking industry. We will do it indirectly, or we will find a way to do it directly that makes financial sense for the bank."
Others are far less confident. They note that Congress is considering legislation that would dilute the Community Reinvestment Act, the Federal law intended to insure that banks channel money back into poor communities. And they point out that banks, while helping finance some of the neighborhood loan funds that have grown up in low-income neighborhoods, have also financed many of the check-cashing outlets that have become the banks of the poor.
"The potential impact goes beyond disinvestment in poor neighborhoods," said Clara Miller, an official with the Non-Profit Facilities Fund, which makes loans to day-care centers and other social services agencies. "Oh, the banks may spread some money around, but there is no assurance that it will be thoughtfully spent. There is going to be a need to rebuild the financial system to again give people a sense of ownership and capital."
One way the financial system is being revived in poorer neighborhoods is through community-based credit unions. The Central Brooklyn Federal Credit Union -- based in a closed Chemical Bank branch -- opened in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, two and a half years ago and now boasts assets of nearly $5 million. Another credit union, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, operates in another closed bank building -- the last branch in the neighborhood.
In Washington Heights, Luis De Los Santos sees the lines of customers snaking into the street at the bank branches on 181st Street as a sign of the desperate need for more banks. A former Arthur Andersen & Company information specialist with a degree from Columbia, he is a co-director at Credit Where Credit Is Due Inc., a group that intends to open a nonprofit credit union in upper Manhattan by next summer.
He said the goal is not just to provide standard banking services but also to teach immigrant business owners how to keep records and operate in a way that could make them attractive candidates for bank loans.
But few believe that even the most stable, successful credit unions can be an adequate substitute for local banks willing to invest in residents' personal aspirations and in the rebuilding of depressed neighborhoods.
"We are looking at a quantum leap in the number of the poor and unbanked," said Cliff Rosenthal, executive director of the National Federation of Community Development Credit Unions. "There are more examples than one might ever imagine of people piling their money under mattresses. It's not just a metaphor. It's reality.
"You have to reinvent the banking system for low-income neighborhoods," he said. "There has to be a whole new financial structure and delivery system."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edwin B. Canaan, left, and Silfrido Frias financed their business in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan without bank loans. The signs advertise real estate and money-wiring services. (Linda Rosier/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Traditional banks are becoming rarer in poor New York neighborhoods. A woman walking by a closed Chemical Bank branch on Rockaway Avenue in Canarsie, Brooklyn, passed a homeless man asleep in a box. (Linda Rosier/The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (77%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; LOAN-SHARKING; PAWNBROKING; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); CREDIT UNIONS PARALEGALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CREDIT UNIONS (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BANK BRANCHES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (71%); REFUGEES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ORGANIZED CRIME (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); CLOSINGS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW; SEXTON, JOE

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



215 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: Sex Slavery, Thailand to New York;
Thousands of Indentured Asian Prostitutes May Be in U.S.

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
She was halfheartedly helping out in her parents' grocery store in Bangkok, daydreaming of an office job that would let her wear pretty clothes, when evil entered her life in the form of a man who made her an irresistible offer: He would arrange her passage to the United States and a job as a bar hostess, he said, and it wouldn't cost her a cent, because her future employer would pay his commission.
Within days, the 23-year-old Thai woman, who asked that she be identified only by her nickname, Na, was in New York. 
 In New York, and caught in a nightmare of sexual slavery, an ordeal so hideous that even months later, as she described it in the downtown Manhattan office of the immigration agents who helped save her, her head drooped in shame, and she doodled unconsciously right on the Government tabletop.
Almost as soon as Na arrived last September, she was informed of the real, Faustian terms of her passage to New York. To pay off the people who had bought her ticket and arranged her visa, she was expected to have sex with more than 300 men. She would be held captive behind the locked doors of a Chinatown brothel where, she later learned, the Thai women were known by numbers instead of names, bars covered the windows and buzzer-operated gates controlled the doors. She would not be allowed to leave the building until she had worked off her debt.
"I could not respond, but I wept," Na recalled through an interpreter. "I thought: 'I can't do anything. I am there; I can't do anything. I'm in their hands.' "
The United States is not the usual destination for international traffickers in human flesh, who mostly feed on the thriving sex industries in Thailand, the Philippines, Japan and India. But experts say the scale of the operation that used Na -- a brothel at 208 Bowery housing more than 30 smuggled Thai women -- indicates that thousands of Asians could be engaged in forced prostitution in America.
Some of the women, including several at the brothel where Na was held, know they will be expected to work off their passage as prostitutes. But few suspect the horror of captivity that awaits them. Brothels like the one at 208 Bowery, which the police closed down in November, have surfaced in recent months in Los Angeles, Seattle and San Diego. Rarely, however, have the workings of an American den of forced prostitution been broken open as throughly as they have in Na's case. The details were exposed in the records of one trial completed in June and more trials now under way.
"This is a classic case," said Kathleen Barry, a professor at Pennsylvania State University, founder of a group called the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women and author of "Prostitution of Sexuality" (1995, New York University Press), which includes a broad study of the international trade in prostitutes.
"Everything that goes on in the sex industry appears in this case," she said: "From the specific exploitation of an individual woman when the customer buys her, to the systematic slavery of selling her and other women through fraudulent schemes, to the disparity between the economic conditions in Thailand and in this country."
At the United Nations Conference on Women in Beijing last week, Dr. Barry's allies called for a worldwide network to combat prostitution, in part by coming down harder on customers and pimps.
Officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service and the New York police say they share the women's concern about forced prostitution. "It's almost in the nature of what we have seen in alien smuggling, because of the high cost for people coming in," said Daniel Molerio, the immigration agency's assistant district director for investigations, who supervised the raid on the 208 Bowery brothel. "You are going to find many cases of people held against their will."
Like recent kidnapping and murder cases attributed to Asian gangs, including the death of a Chinese woman in Brooklyn two weeks ago, forced prostitution typically nvolves Asian organized crime and smuggling rings, said Russ Bergeron, a senior spokesman for the immigration agency. "We have seen major criminal organizations utilizing hundreds of women in this type of enterprise," he said.
In a recent case involving an interstate chain of massage parlors staffed by Asian woman forced into sex, Mr. Bergeron said: "The network was very sophisticated. These women were provided with false documents, false I.D.'s, and they were even rotated from city to city periodically in order to defeat law enforcement efforts."
Coerced prostitution of foreign women is especially difficult to combat, officials said, because of its usual secrecy and the profit that drives it. And even once detected, it can be hard to prove because the prostitutes often fear revenge and deportation.
"You can't force them out of the business," said Lieut. Peter Martin of the New York Police Department's Vice Squad, which helped with the 208 Bowery case. "Unless we have even a mere suspicion that they're held against their wishes, we can't take any action."
In Na's case, the harbingers of freedom were city inspectors who, knowing that the upper stories of 208 Bowery were used as a brothel but finding it hard to keep it closed down, went looking last year for housing code violations that could close it another way.
Checking the premises on Oct. 11, 1994, they encountered 2 women -- among 31 present -- who made clear in broken English that they wanted to leave. That brought a visit from the police and interest from immigration officials, but the other women followed their bosses' orders to stay put and keep quiet.
On Nov. 8, a prostitute who had managed to escape phoned and told the captives they could appeal for help by calling 911.
In the police raid that followed, they arrested the madam, Siew Geok Adkins, better known as Lilly Chan or Jenny, along with the bouncer and several others. Six more women turned themselves over to authorities; the rest were let free -- two of them only to turn up weeks later in a similar situation in Seattle.
Immigration agents in on the raid said they found rows of cubicles and whole cases of condoms.
Since then, the case has brought together more than a dozen defendants, from brokers in women to their buyers, and slowly unfolded the ugly inner workings of a modern international slave trade.
Joseph Morales, the bouncer who stood guard at the door, has been convicted of kidnapping and civil rights violations, and faces sentencing on Oct. 30. He could receive 10 years in prison.
Many women held at 208 Bowery first claimed they had been lured to the United States with promises of restaurant jobs. Then several changed their stories, admitting they had known they would be working as prostitutes, but had thought they would be free to come and go. Authorities said they still had some doubt about Na's story, but she maintained she would never have willingly become a prostitute.
Ms. Adkins (Lilly Chan), who turned state's witness at Mr. Morales's trial this spring, described the cold-blooded details of overseeing a stable of sexual slaves.
Beginning in 1993, when her regular supply of Korean, Taiwanese and Hong Kong prostitutes began to dry up, Ms. Adkins started to accept indentured women from Thailand, she said, and her suppliers told her not to let them outside because they might run away.
From early 1994 until the brothel was closed down, she obtained about 50 Thai women that way, she testified. After one escaped by jumping out a second-story window, she installed iron bars, she said. Three buzzer-operated gates controlled the doors, and the women were herded into a secret basement during several police raids.
"What does it take for a woman to jump out a second-story window?" Assistant Attorney Tai Park, who helped in the Federal prosecution of Mr. Morales, wondered, openly appalled. "What does it take for an illegal alien who can't speak English to say to some white stranger, 'Can I go out with you?'
"What does it take, if not absolute horror at the restraint you have been confined to day after day?"
Customers paid a $30 admission fee and $100 for about an hour with a prostitute, Ms. Adkins said. The only money the women kept came from customers' tips. Some of the Thai women were so inexperienced that clients complained.
The women generally worked from 11 A.M. to 4 A.M. every day, she said, and had sex on average with two men a night.
Along with marketing women who "belonged" to other bosses, Ms. Adkins said she bought six or seven women outright. They cost $6,000 to $15,000, she said, calling the business very profitable. One woman whom she bought for $9,000 had to pay her back in 270 "quotas" -- 270 men for $27,000. Other women had to repay their smugglers by having sex with 380 to 500 men, she said. All were charged $300 a week for room and board, payable through sex with three more men.
The women kept track of how many men they had slept with in little booklets, Ms. Adkins said; she kept a master ledger as well.
But all that counting may have been pointless, Dr. Barry believes. In most cases of forced prostitution, she said, talk of debt is only a ruse, and the captors "have no intention of setting the girls free until they're no longer usable."
"If they get AIDS they'll be set free, or if they grow haggard," Dr. Barry said.
The Thai man who enticed Na to America, Jawarit Sillaphanond, testified as part of his plea bargain that he had put seven women in the brothel, lying to some that they would work in restaurants and to others that they would be prostitutes but free ones, able to choose their men and come and go. Once they were under his control, he threatened to hunt them down and hurt them if they escaped, he said. The Thai women were all on tourist visas, obtained by forging letters from companies saying they were employees.
Witnesses said Chinese and Vietnamese gangsters were also involved in the brothel, collecting protection money and hunting down escaped prostitutes.
Happily, Na's tale ends well. After the immigration agency got working papers for her and she found a job at a Thai restaurant, a patron fell in love with her and married her, she said. She plans to stay in America.
But still, when she thinks back on her time in the brothel, the lilting syllables of her Thai speech fill with unaccustomed rage.
"Every time I talk about it, I'm angry that it happened to me," she said. "They bought something, and they wanted to use it to the full extent, and they didn't think that those people in there are human beings."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Na, a 23-year-old Thai woman, tells of being forced into prostitution in Chinatown. She spoke through an interpreter at Immigration and Naturalization Service offices. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; SLAVERY IMMIGRATION (91%); SLAVERY (90%); PROSTITUTION (90%); SEX TRAFFICKING (88%); WOMEN (75%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (74%); REFUGEES (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); SMUGGLING (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



216 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Shifting Lead At Forefront Of Computing

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

 BODY:
New supercomputers have always been a bit like new jumbo jets: without an initial customer and the big opening order it brings, they never take off. But while Boeing can turn to any number of domestic or foreign airlines for that crucial first check, there has always been just one qualified buyer for computing's ne plus ultra: the Federal Government.
So the announcement last week that the Energy Department would finance the creation of the Intel Corporation's next stab at the world's fastest computer was very much in keeping with tradition. The big difference was that "Pay to the order of" was not followed by "Cray Research Inc.," the leading producer of supercomputers for the last two decades, but by Intel, best known as the maker of the microprocessors at the heart of most personal computers. 
 That the role of supercomputer leader should be claimed by a maker of personal computer chips is a technological upheaval worthy of the overused phrase "paradigm shift," but it should not be surprising. Hit simultaneously by the end of the cold war and a global recession, the traditional supercomputer market has been in decline for several years. Both Seymour Cray and Steve Chen, the competing geniuses of Cray Research, saw their subsequent ventures fail because no one stepped up to be the first to buy.
At the same time, the personal computer industry has boomed, and technology leadership has simply followed the dollars. While Cray's machines depended on relatively few but vastly powerful processors, Intel's supercomputer will use 9,000 off-the-shelf microprocessors arrayed together in a configuration designed to achieve what is known as massively parallel processing.
"It used to be that big machines pushed the performance envelope," said Ed Masi, general manager of Intel's supercomputer business in Beaverton, Ore. "Today the desktop pushes all technology. That's where all the revenue growth is, where all the profit is, so that's where all the research and development is."
Still, some people in the industry saw a bit of irony in the Government's ponying up the $45 million to develop Intel's new machine, which will be based at the Energy Department's Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, N.M. A previous Intel machine, also at Sandia, already claims the world speed record, but that computer and all of the company's current offerings are based on a microprocessor, the I860, which is not used in personal computers and is considered, even by Intel, to be an obsolete chip. The new machine will be based on the P-6, the successor to the Pentium, which is due out later this year.
"The I860's performance was out of line with the performance of other vendors," said Omri Serlin, president of Itom International, a market research firm based in Los Altos, Calif., that follows the high performance computer industry. "They were in a quandary for what to do. Now they've got a sugar daddy to finance a machine based on the P-6."
With the current Congress's focus on reducing the budget deficit, an Energy Department subsidy for one of the world's most profitable companies might raise a few eyebrows.
But supercomputer experts said that the estimated $45 million cost should not be considered the purchase price of a computer that can perform more than a trillion floating point operations a second but the expense of solving a particular problem -- in this case, simulating a nuclear explosion.
(This capability, known, uneuphoniously, as a teraflop, involves the ability to perform simultaneously hundreds of billions of computationally intensive operations, and is used as a standard reference for comparing supercomputer performance.)
Mr. Masi expressed hope that the French Government might be Intel's next client.
"Here is not an announcement of a new machine but of an end-user, the Government, with a particular problem of interest to society, saying we can justify the expenditure of this money to solve this problem in the time frame we need to," said Sidney Karin, director of the San Diego Supercomputer Center.
Time is the critical component, Mr. Karin said, because the history of computing shows that performance always increases and cost always falls if one waits long enough. "I think that if you did nothing, sooner or later there'd be a teraflop on your desktop," he said. "Whatever is happening at the high end will and should arrive on your desktop 5 or 10 years from now."
In the past, the high-end machines that Cray sold first to the Defense Department, the National Security Agency or some other Government body soon found buyers in the commercial market. The Ford Motor Company, for example, is one of the biggest Cray users and the seamless body of the new Taurus would not have been feasible without lots of supercomputer time. Aerospace, oil discovery and even pharmaceuticals manufacturers have been strong supercomputer buyers.
It is less clear that massively parallel machines like Intel's 9,000-chip behemoth will find nongovernment markets. While each succeeding generation of Cray computers maintained software compatibility with its ancestors, massively parallel machines require an entirely new approach to writing code that has slowed their adoption. The high-end supercomputer market may be shrinking, but Cray retains a robust 70 percent share.
"There doesn't seem to be that much interest in the commercial marketplace for the high end of parallel processing," Mr. Serlin said.
On the other hand, massively parallel machines are inherently scalable, meaning that the same design could be used with 4,000 or 400 or 4 microprocessors, providing incrementally lower performance but at lower cost. And it is the so-called midrange of supercomputers, machines priced from $2 million to $5 million, and the so-called low end,at $1 million and below, that are experiencing rapid growth.
The dominant player in the midrange and below, and to some extent the creator of the small supercomputer, has been Silicon Graphics Inc. But Cray introduced its own midrange machine in March, which has turned out to be its fastest-selling product ever. "We launched that machine with 120 advance orders," said Steve Conway, a Cray spokesman. "It took us 10 years to sell 120 conventional supercomputers."
Still, this is the market Intel thinks it willcommand. "We will sell pieces of the larger work, much smaller systems, even down to work stations," Mr. Masi said. "I believe the P-6 will take over that marketplace." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; INTEL CORP; CRAY RESEARCH INC INTEL CORP (98%); CRAY RESEARCH INC (83%); BOEING CO (58%); SANDIA NATIONAL LABORATORIES (51%); ENERGY DEPARTMENT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; INTEL CORP; CRAY RESEARCH INC ENERGY DEPARTMENT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); COMPUTER CHIPS SUPERCOMPUTERS (92%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); AIRLINES (73%); PARALLEL COMPUTING (73%); COLD WAR (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



217 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Sifting Hidden Market Patterns for Profit

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON 

DATELINE: SANTA FE, N.M., Sept. 10

 BODY:
In the late 1970's, when Doyne Farmer and Norman Packard were graduate students in physics at the University of California at Santa Cruz, they tried to make their fortune by using miniature computers to beat the roulette tables in Las Vegas, Nev.
Roulette, they reasoned, was not quite so random as commonly believed. With the help of friends and fellow students, they developed a computer program that roughly predicted in which octant of the wheel the spinning ball was likely to land. 
 Though the scientists' system did not make them wealthy, it showed that it was theoretically possible to get a slight edge over the house. Now, almost two decades later, they are trying to make a much bigger killing by using information technology to outsmart the glitziest casino of them all -- the financial markets.
Since 1991, Dr. Farmer and Dr. Packard have been running the Prediction Company, a business here that uses the latest developments in artificial-intelligence software to analyze market and financial data, trying to find hidden patterns that foretell which way Fortuna's wheel will turn. Trading signals are sent to the company's partner, the Swiss Bank Corporation, which places bets on the movements of foreign exchange rates, interest rates and stock and commodity prices. Swiss Bank is one of the most sophisticated users of quantitative models for investing.
So far, the Prediction Company's scientists say, the system is making money, though they are barred by a confidentiality agreement from saying how much. Nor are they allowed to say how much money they are playing with, though they acknowledge that the figure considerably exceeds the $1 million they were investing in the project early on.
Trying to devise a mathematical system to beat the house is one of the world's oldest professions, and one scorned by most experienced investors. But it has proved irresistible for some experts in computer systems to try out the newest technologies on this oldest of quests. Many Wall Street investment banks employ former physicists and mathematicians who try to apply scientific models to the financial markets.
A few end up at small boutique investment houses or consulting firms; others, like Dr. Farmer and Dr. Packard, start their own.
For them, there is more at stake than a small part of Swiss Bank's investment pool. Dr. Farmer and Dr. Packard are using lessons they learned as physicists studying complex systems to challenge a cherished tenet of classical economics: the random-walk hypothesis, which holds that day-to-day changes in prices are essentially unpredictable.
"It's an interesting intellectual challenge to try and defeat the established dogma -- prove it wrong by getting rich," Dr. Farmer said. "We have to fight an entrenched body of skeptics who were brainwashed in school into thinking markets are perfectly efficient."
Most economists say that trying to use past prices to predict future ones is as futile as trying to predict how a perfectly balanced coin will land. No matter the past pattern of heads and tails, the outcome of the next flip is a random and independent event. Likewise, these economists say, no analysis of the past zigs and zags of a stock price will tell you anything about its price tomorrow.
The reason? Markets are said to be efficient processors of information. If there were a meaningful pattern -- three zigs followed by a zag on a price chart might mean a stock is about to rise -- then so many traders would have bought on this expectation that the price would have already increased. The market would have discounted the information, which would already be reflected in the price.
For years, hordes of investors called technical analysts have ignored the admonitions about efficient markets. Hoping to gauge investor sentiment, they scrutinize graphs of stock prices for telltale patterns with names like breakaway gap, double top, rounded bottom and the head-and-shoulder formation.
Dr. Farmer and Dr. Packard say that their methods are more scientific. "We tend to look at the same kind of stuff as technical traders, but we use careful statistical evaluation as opposed to intuition," Dr. Packard said. And they are not restricting themselves to studying price movements. At the Prediction Company's offices, computer work stations running pattern-recognition software scrutinize some 50 to 100 financial and economic variables.
"Ninety-five percent of technical trading is based on obscure mysticism -- druid mythology or something," Dr. Farmer said. "We are applying the same kind of rigor as economists do, but we are more broad-minded about what might work."
Among the tools in their portfolio are neural networks -- computer programs with a structure similar to the weblike architecture of the brain. Neural nets are also used by some Wall Street investment houses -- Salomon Brothers, for example. Given a stream of data, a neural net can learn to identify subtle patterns. The Prediction Company is also experimenting with another kind of learning program called a genetic algorithm, in which Darwinian selection is used to breed computer code adept at certain tasks -- like ferreting out patterns in financial data.
Eugene F. Fama, a professor of finance at the University of Chicago, said he was not convinced that even the most sophisticated software could be used to find significant relationships in past financial data. "If you search through a hundred variables you're bound to find something," he said. But the relationships, he said, are most likely to be random, like the correlations technical traders have found between prices and the height of hemlines, the winner of the Super Bowl or the phases of the moon.
"The business of financial management is selling black boxes," Dr. Fama said, "and this is a blacker box than most."
The scientists at the Prediction Company agree with mainstream economists that market data mostly consist of meaningless noise. But they believe that within the din are barely perceptible signals that can provide a slight edge.
As physicists in the developing science of complexity, they learned about building computer models of systems with many variables. The complexity field, still in its infancy, seeks to deepen the understanding of how simple parts can interact to produce an almost unfathomable intricate whole. Dr. Farmer studied complex systems at Los Alamos National Laboratories in New Mexico; Dr. Packard at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., and the University of Illinois. Both have also worked with the Santa Fe Institute, which is trying to apply insights into the behavior of complex systems to the economy and the financial markets.
Blake LeBaron, an economist at the University of Wisconsin who is also affiliated with the Santa Fe Institute, said there was good reason to believe there might be inefficiencies to exploit in the marketplace. "For a lot of economic problems, the efficient-market and the random-walk hypotheses are probably not a crazy description for stock prices," he said. "But they shouldn't be taken as unshakable doctrine."
Dr. LeBaron argues that the efficient-market hypothesis was formulated in a day when there was ample time for information about a stock to be absorbed by traders and reflected in the price. But today, high-speed computers and information networks deluge traders with more up-to-the-minute data than they can possibly digest. "It becomes harder to believe that all this information is reflected in the price at every possible instant," he said. With powerful enough software, it might be possible to find neglected scraps.
At the same time, Dr. LeBaron said, better techniques have been developed for measuring randomness. They show that the markets are "pretty random," he said, but not entirely so. So far, the Prediction Company's success could just be a matter of luck. The question is whether the winning streak will continue. "The better the performance, the harder it is to attribute it to a statistical fluke," Dr. Farmer said.
One paradox of the efficient-market hypothesis is that it cannot be true unless most people do not believe it. For all the information about a stock to be reflected in its price, people must be out assiduously gathering data. If the orthodox economists are right, the Sisyphean efforts of the Prediction Company merely insure that the efficient market hypothesis will ultimately prevail, flattening the nonbelievers.
But Dr. Farmer is certain that order will triumph over randomness. "We're convinced there is enough structure to make a business," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Norman Packard, left, and Dr. Doyne Farmer once tried to use computers to gain an edge at roulette and are now applying the techniques to financial markets. (Steve Northrup for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW MEXICO, USA (66%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (88%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: PREDICTION CO; SWISS BANK CORP SWISS BANK CORP (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PREDICTION CO; SWISS BANK CORP UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW MEXICO, USA (66%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (88%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); FORECASTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHYSICS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); GAMING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); BONDS (71%); MATHEMATICS (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EXCHANGE RATES (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (53%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE; FARMER, DOYNE (DR); PACKARD, NORMAN (DR) NORMAN PACKARD (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



218 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Chief Has Big Plans For Transit

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
To make up for shrinking city, state and Federal aid, E. Virgil Conway, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority chairman, has overseen the first cuts in transit service in two decades and has proposed raising subway and bus fares to $1.50.
Still, Mr. Conway has pledged an $11.9 billion, five-year capital improvement plan to continue the ambitious rebuilding of the subways, buses and commuter railroads that has cost more than $20 billion since 1982. And, he says, these capital improvements will be pulled off without any further service cuts or fare increases. "I am certain that we can do it," he said in a recent interview, "but it's going to take a lot of energy on my part and thousands of other people's parts." 
 But many experts in transportation and finance say it is not a question of energy but a question of dollars and cents, and that Mr. Conway has not come up with a credible way to come up with the money to build on the capital improvements that, starting in 1982, resurrected a transportation network on the brink of collapse.
"This is essentially no capital program," said Robert R. Kiley, who was chairman of the M.T.A. from 1983 to 1990 and is now president of the New York City Partnership, a coalition of business executives devoted to economic development. "This is not a plan. It won't work. And it looks to me an awful lot like the abandonment of the capital effort."
Mr. Conway is in a tight corner. While previous M.T.A. chairmen have pushed the state for substantial aid, Mr. Conway was appointed five months ago by George E. Pataki, a Governor who has vowed to cut state spending. And so Mr. Conway has agreed to run the M.T.A. with shrinking state aid for day-to-day operations and no new state aid for capital improvements.
In fact, critics charge that Mr. Conway is providing cover for his friend and political sponsor, Governor Pataki, as he withdraws from the state's commitment to improving the M.T.A. Gene Russianoff, a lawyer with the Straphangers Campaign, a transit advocacy group, said that "after 15 years of partnership in which the state contributed hundreds of millions of dollars, this administration wants to have nothing to do with it."
Factoring in a Congress that is cutting capital and operating support for the transportation authority, a Mayor who has also cut operating support, and Mr. Conway's pledge for no more fare increases before the year 2000, the M.T.A. chairman has concluded that the only option left to him is to borrow.
And that is not an option that financial analysts hold out much hope for. They say that the transportation authority would have trouble finding buyers for its anticipated billions of dollars in bonds and that if it tried, it would damage its credit rating. Further, experts warn that the level of borrowing necessary to pull off an ambitious capital improvement plan would saddle the agency with such high debt repayment that it would hurt operations for the next 30 years.
"We are, quite honestly, quite concerned about the credit," said Ernest R. Perez, a director at Standard & Poor's Corporation, a leading credit rating agency. 'You can't choose between operating funds and capital funds. You have to have both."
To this, Mr. Conway says he will be able to free up the money to make the bond payments by trimming fat from the operating budget. He says he can cut $2.85 billion over the next five years out of the agency's $5 billion-a-year operating budgets without hurting service or maintenance, something Mr. Kiley and others say will be impossible.
Mr. Conway acknowledges that it will be difficult, but asserts that he has no choice but to try.
"I think the savings are there," he said. As for his critics, "They belong to the old school that expects Government to pay for everything."
While Mr. Conway has said he will continue the commitment to major capital improvements initiated by his three predecessors, a close look at his plan reveals three profound shifts from the way previous plans paid for capital improvements like replacing rattletrap subway cars, buying new buses and renovating shabby stations. All three changes would put more of the burden of paying for such projects onto riders.
First, to support the rebuilding effort, the authority would siphon billions of dollars from the pool of money used to operate the subways, buses and commuter railroads -- a pool fed mostly by passenger fares and motorists' bridge and tunnel tolls. Second, the plan relies on a vast increase in borrowing to pay for improvements, and assumes that all the new debts would be paid back by fares and tolls. Third, and one of the reasons for the first two, is that after 13 years of large state commitments to the rebuilding effort, Mr. Conway's blueprint anticipates no new state money.
What all this means, critics say, is that the M.T.A. will either have to greatly scale back the capital program, or within a few years, cut service, defer maintenance and impose another fare increase to pay for the improvements.
But Mr. Conway insisted that the plan is a realistic attempt to force the M.T.A. into line with the budget-slashing vogue in Government at all levels. "The philosophy in both Albany and Washington, as I understand it, is there must be much more self-sufficiency," he said. "Users are going to have to pay a greater share.
"Rather than suggest the Governor's retreating, I would say he's advancing, and that he hopes to achieve a great victory," he said. "And that's a victory of achieving reality in what Government can pay for."
Several current and former M.T.A. officials, including Mr. Kiley and Mortimer L. Downey, the United States Deputy Secretary of Transportation who was once executive director and chief financial officer of the transportation authority, said they had serious doubts about the agency's ability to make the $2.85 billion in budget cuts without doing serious harm to service.
An early draft of a financial plan is always as much a political statement as anything else, and a detailed capital program, with the attendant wrangling over what projects will be included, is still months away. But where the three prior five-year plans were used by the former M.T.A. chairmen Richard Ravitch, Mr. Kiley and Peter E. Stangl to demand additional state and city subsidies, Mr. Conway's plan assumes no new state money and a static city contribution.
"You can't just expect the state to impose new taxes every time to help out," Mr. Conway said. From the time he was appointed, he has said that his role is to do the Governor's bidding and to work with what the Governor gives him, not to try to alter what happens in Albany.
While Governor Pataki has not weighed in on the plan, an aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the M.T.A. should not expect help from Albany.
Jose A. Gomez-Ibanez, a professor of public policy at Harvard University who specializes in transportation economics, said, "I think it's just about impossible to support major capital improvements without state help."
Each of the three previous capital plans covered a distinct five-year period, but what Mr. Conway calls a five-year plan includes what remains of the $9.1 billion, 1992-96 plan, and would go through the end of 1999.
The 1992-96 plan called for $3.1 billion worth of borrowing over five years through the sale of bonds, which are repaid over 30 years. Mr. Conway's plan calls for $4.5 billion in new borrowing over four years, in addition to about $2 billion worth of bonds from the previous plan that have not yet been sold.
As part of the last plan, the Legislature and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo enacted a package of state taxes, including a petroleum tax on businesses that provided the money to repay more than $2 billion worth of bonds. That left $1 billion in bonds that had to be repaid out of subway, bus and commuter rail fares and bridge and tunnel tolls.
But Mr. Conway's plan anticipates that all $4.5 billion in new bonds would be repaid from fares and tolls.
Mr. Downey said that fare-backed bonds should be used to a limited extent, and only as a last resort. "If you borrow money backed by fares, you're locking yourself into taking money away from service for 30 years," he said.
The M.T.A. spends about $540 million a year paying off all fare- and toll-backed bonds it has sold since 1982. Mr. Conway's plan would push that cost, by the year 2003, to about $1 billion a year -- money that would otherwise be available for workers' salaries, station cleaning, maintenance and other day-to-day expenses.
The plan would take an additional $215 million a year out of the operating budgets and put it directly into capital expenses. Steven V. Reitano, the M.T.A.'s new chief financial officer, said that this "pay-as-you-go" approach, which was not done at all under the previous plan, is needed so that the agency will not be overwhelmed by its debts.
Robert Paaswell, director of the University Transportation Research Center at City College and a former chief of the Chicago Transit Authority, said that in relying on operating funds to pay for capital projects, "you hurt service, you lose riders and you lose income. It's just bad transit policy."
He, Mr. Kiley and others predicted that the M.T.A. will be forced to greatly scale back the capital plan. Otherwise, it would be an unhealthy drain on the operating budgets, leading inevitably to poorer service and a transit fare of $2 or more by the year 2000.
"This plan begs the question whether people are willing to have fare increases so large that they will support not only the operating, but the capital program, and history has shown that that idea is just plain wrong," Mr. Kiley said. "People won't pay it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ; NEW YORK STATE; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; BUSES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CAPITAL INVESTMENT; RAILROADS ; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; CONWAY, E VIRGIL; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) ROBERT R KILEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



219 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Nafta's Bubble Bursts

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Back in 1993, in a typical declaration of faith in the projected glories of the North American Free Trade Agreement, a vice president of the Mattel Corporation named Fermin Cuza assured a Congressional subcommittee that Nafta would result in the creation of new jobs at Mattel and have "a very positive effect" on the 2,000 men and women already employed by Mattel in the United States.
Mr. Cuza's was just one of many promises made during that season of devotion to free trade. The consumer group Public Citizen took a look back at them. 
 Let's start with Mattel. Not only have no jobs been created, but a check of Federal records by Public Citizen found that 520 workers at Mattel's Fisher-Price facility in Medina, N.Y., have been certified as laid off specifically because of "increased company imports from Mexico" that resulted from Nafta.
Public Citizen's Global Trade Watch unit surveyed the job creation promises of dozens of staunchly pro-Nafta corporations. They included, in addition to Mattel, Allied Signal, General Electric, Procter & Gamble, Scott Paper and Zenith.
In a report released last week, Public Citizen noted that every one of those companies had already "laid off workers because of Nafta."
Of the companies surveyed, 89 percent had failed to take any significant step toward fulfilling their promises of job creation or export expansion.
In November 1993, President Clinton asserted, "If this trade agreement passes -- Nafta -- we estimate America will add another 200,000 jobs by 1995 alone."
He was mistaken. There has been no meaningful job creation from Nafta, which has been in effect for 20 months. But the U.S. Department of Labor, through its Nafta Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which was designed to help people thrown out of their jobs by Nafta, has certified that 38,148 workers lost their jobs by mid-August. An additional 30,000 workers have filed for assistance under the program, which is not well known and not available to most workers who are at risk. It is expected that the true job loss under Nafta will reach one million by the end of the year.
It is fashionable now for Nafta supporters to blame the end-of-the-year peso crash for problems that were inherent in the trade agreement. During the first year of Nafta, before the big devaluation in December, the value of the peso relative to the dollar had already declined by nearly 15 percent. That wiped out any advantage the U.S. would have realized from Nafta's lower tariffs. The average tariff decline was just 10 percent. In other words, the "market access advantage" that the U.S. was supposed to enjoy vanished before the peso crash.
Proponents of Nafta are quick to note that U.S. exports to Mexico increased during the first year of Nafta. True. But what they fail to mention is that imports to the U.S. from Mexico increased even faster, with automobiles and other high-technology items increasing twice as fast. We were well on our way to a trade deficit with Mexico (and the big job losses that would entail) before the crash of the peso.
Worse, much of the increase in exports to Mexico came from items that boomerang back to the U.S. in the form of imports -- for example, component parts shipped to Mexico for assembly into finished goods and infrastructure equipment for use in the building of factories.
And then there's the small matter of the wages of American workers. In Nafta's first year, before the collapse of the peso, America's 77 million production workers endured a 3 percent drop in their real hourly wages -- the steepest one-year decline ever recorded.
That, of course, was directly related to the overall expansion of the labor pool under Nafta, and the fact that the number of companies choosing to relocate to Mexico has, as expected, accelerated. The chilling effect of these developments on wage demands should be obvious.
The peso devaluation has dried up the consumer market in Mexico. That simply means that as bad a deal as Nafta was originally, Mexicans are now even less able to buy American goods.
But it was Nafta that put us on this highway to nowhere in the first place. The collapse of the peso just increased the speed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (58%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (58%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC CITIZEN (ORGN) MATTEL INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC CITIZEN (ORGN) PUBLIC CITIZEN (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); RELOCATIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); DEVALUATION (64%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



220 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Don't Starve the Port Authority

 BODY:
After weeks of uncertainty, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has decreed that there will be no fare or toll increases for the bridges, tunnels and trains that cross the Hudson River. Instead, the authority is laying off personnel and cutting other costs, as demanded by Governors George Pataki and Christine Todd Whitman. Now the Governors and the authority have a more important challenge. They need to find ways of financing much-needed transportation improvements, and to face the fact that travelers and commuters will have to pay part of the bill down the road, if not right now.
The underlying problem is that revenues generated by the authority's airports, bus terminals, bridges and tunnels have not kept pace with soaring costs. Earlier this year, the authority warned that without more income, it would have to consider cutbacks in planned improvements to the region's aging transportation infrastructure. 
 The insistence of Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Pataki on cutting costs first is understandable, but they are wrong to equate fare and toll increases with taxes. The authority operates on the sound principle that users of the region's diverse transportation network should pay for its upkeep. For decades, the authority has been guided by the equally sensible axiom that revenue-producers like the bridges and airports should help pay for revenue-losers like the PATH trains and bus terminals.
Even with the new savings, it is not clear that the authority will have the resources to meet the region's future transportation needs. First among them are improvements at Kennedy International Airport, including the long-deferred proposal for a Manhattan rail link. But almost all the port and transportation facilities need renovation or expansion, and the money will have to come from somewhere. There have not been any toll increases at authority bridges and tunnels in four years, and the PATH fare has remained $1 since 1987.
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has also raised the familiar charge that the Port Authority favors New Jersey over New York. In particular, he cites the low fare for the PATH trains, though many experts regard the low fare as beneficial because it makes it easier for commuters to work, shop and pay commuter taxes in the city.
The Mayor is right to defend the city's interests, but some of his arguments seem shortsighted. He wants increases in the lease payments to the city from the authority-operated airports. The annual payment for Kennedy Airport, as high as $87 million a year in 1987, is now a minuscule $3 million. But as the authority points out, the lease payments to the city have gone down because the revenue from the airport is being used to finance vital improvements in its roads and runways. Since Kennedy has been shortchanged for years, especially compared with the gleaming new facilities at Newark International Airport, it would surely be wiser to tap its revenues for further improvements than to siphon them off to close the city's budget deficit.
The authority, an independent agency, has often behaved in an unaccountable and arrogant fashion. At times it has invested unwisely in industrial parks, commercial office buildings and other things having nothing to do with transportation. Governors Pataki and Whitman are right to reassess its functions. It may well be time to sell the World Trade Center, or at least to privatize many of its management functions.
But the Governors, and the Mayor, should look at the authority as more than a cash cow or manager of existing transportation systems. It has great potential to serve as an engine for the region's future economic growth by investing in future transportation needs, if it has the resources to do so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); PORT AUTHORITY (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; TRANSPORTATION; FINANCES PORT AUTHORITIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (86%); CITY LIFE (86%); CITIES (85%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



221 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Black Film Makers Are Looking Beyond Ghetto Violence

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Black film makers, who have focused largely in recent years on the bleak and corrosive experiences of ghetto youths, are moving toward more expansive and mainstream themes with far greater appeal to wider audiences.
Like just about everything else in Hollywood, the change is driven mostly by economics. And to some degree, black directors also yearn to explore new themes. Film makers and studio executives say that the novelty of movies about young people killing each other in the slums has been exhausted and that audiences for such productions are dwindling. 
 More significantly, many black film makers and actors have grown uneasy about, are even embarrassed by, films centered on the ghetto, saying that these movies offer only a narrow portrait of African-American life.
"I would assume studios are just accepting of the fact that there's a greater diversity to our lives than kids in the 'hood, than the drug and violence stories," said the actor Samuel L. Jackson Jr., "and we are taking a prominent place in our society and our films are reflecting that."
Among the coming high-profile films that break the pattern:
"Devil in a Blue Dress," based on Walter Mosley's 1990 novel, which opens on Sept. 29. The film, directed by Carl Franklin, depicts black aspirations and life in postwar Los Angeles and stars Denzel Washington as a private eye who becomes involved in a political and racial scandal in 1948.
"White Man's Burden," a dramatic fantasy starring John Travolta and Harry Belafonte, about an America where blacks are the majority and whites are the minority. The film is to open on Dec. 1.
"Waiting to Exhale," based on Terry McMillan's novel about four middle-class black women yearning for happiness, scheduled for release around Christmas.
To a degree, "Dead Presidents" also falls into this category. Produced and directed by Albert and Allen Hughes, fraternal 22-year-old twins who made the highly praised film "Menace II Society" in 1993, "Dead Presidents" is the saga of young men in the South Bronx who enlist in the Marine Corps during the Vietnam War and their grim return to the streets. It is to open Oct. 4.
While "Clockers," Spike Lee's latest movie, deals with drugs and the ghetto, he has gleefully expressed hope that it will be the final movie of its sort for a while. "It was our intention to be the final nail in the coffin," he said, referring to the category of violent, urban black films. Mr. Lee reluctantly took over the direction of "Clockers" after Martin Scorsese dropped out.
"It's dead! It's over! Move on!" he said. "I loved 'Boyz N the Hood' and 'Menace II Society,' but those other films, I don't know. The genre is at its end now. It's up to African-American film makers to open our vision. If you don't expand and grow, you'll die."
Mr. Lee's next films are "Girl 6," a comedy about an actress in Los Angeles earning a living in the phone-sex business, and "The Jackie Robinson Story," about the first black baseball player in the major leagues.
Stacy Snider, president of production at Tri-Star Studios, which made "Devil in a Blue Dress," suggested that "three or four movies by black film makers this fall are the next evolution."
"The challenge for studios when you do commercials and TV spots for these films," she said, "is to grab the white audiences and say, 'Hey this is different, this is a great story, this does not just appeal to a niche audience.' "
Ms. Snider, who is white, added, "I have far more in common with 'Waiting to Exhale' than 'Die Hard.' "
Younger black film makers, while struggling to find financing for their movies, are almost uniformly reaching beyond drugs and death for their subject matter. Melissa Maxwell, the writer and director of "The Fire This Time," a modest film about the Los Angeles riots, is set to make "Tomboys," about an interracial group of young women in Los Angeles struggling to make a living. Darnell Martin, whose 1994 movie, "I Like It Like That" was about a spirited young Bronx woman, is set to make "Listening to the Dead," a psychological horror film about a racially mixed family, also set in the Bronx.
Leslie Harris, whose "Just Another Girl on the IRT," was a hit at the 1993 Sundance Film Festival, is planning "Royalties, Rhythm and Blues," a thriller about a black female executive in the record industry.
"The problem is financing, of course, and many executives you talk to still expect you to do a 'hood movie," Ms. Harris said. "That's the stigma that's put upon us. But look, the typical black story is not from the 'hood anymore. We are very much entrenched in American society, which means we are starting to deal more and more with the politics, money and job pressures, which are what the American dream is all about."
Studios have sought to attract black audiences, especially teen-agers, since the 1970's, when the so-called black exploitation movies drew unexpectedly large numbers of urban viewers. Those films followed a period in which Sidney Poitier had become the nation's first black movie star with crossover appeal. Mr. Poitier, whose persona in films like "Lilies of the Field," "To Sir, With Love" and "Guess Whose Coming to Dinner" embodied middle-class values and accommodation, fell out of fashion in the turbulent 70's.
"When the civil rights movement and the assasinations happened, there was another cycle of black films, the exploitation films like 'Super Fly' and 'Shaft,' in which the despair comes forth," said Thomas Cripps, a professor at Morgan State University in Baltimore and an authority on black films. "It was almost like the return of the ghetto as an ideal."
These "blaxploitation" movies had a strong appeal for budding young black film makers, among them Mr. Lee and John Singleton, and led in turn to more gritty and realistic depictions of black urban life in which there were few heroes and much violence. Mr. Singleton's "Boyz N the Hood" (1991), caught the attention not only of the critics, who praised its somber look at life in South-Central Los Angeles, but also of the studios, which were impressed by its earnings. The film cost $6 million and has grossed more than $56 million, according to the Exhibitor Relations Company, which monitors movie earnings.
There has since been an almost constant stream of variations on that theme, among them "Menace II Society," "Juice," "Jason's Lyric," "Fresh," "Sugar Hill" and "Above the Rim." Because so many of these films were relatively inexpensive to produce, most were profitable. But black film makers have begun turning away from them, and the audiences have waned, too.
"People were trying to imitate the success of 'Boyz N the Hood' without the heart of it," said Mr. Singleton, who made the film when he was only 22. "This was an extremely personal film. It wasn't created and engineered to make a lot of money. It was, like, autobiographical. I wrote and directed it to get a lot of things in my life off my back. My film came out and there were all these imitations. It was like after 'Jaws' came out; there were films like 'The Great White Death,' and 'Piranha.'
Every studio is aware that black teen-agers are the most frequent moviegoers, and it has become obvious that it doesn't take a steady diet of violence to lure them. "Bad Boys," a comedy about a pair of black policemen, has grossed an unexpected $65 million, and "Dangerous Minds," starring Michelle Pfeiffer as an unlikely teacher in a tough high school, has brought in more than $46 million. (The soundtracks are major hits and contributed to each film's success.)
For serious black film makers, though, making forthright, personal movies remains a struggle in the face of demands by studios. "It's all a little tough, and it's always about economics," said Forest Whitaker, the actor and director who finished shooting "Waiting to Exhale" in May. "With black films, everything becomes a test case. If one explores a new genre and it doesn't do well, that's it. But if someone makes a baseball film and it doesn't work, there'll be another baseball film."
But film makers like Mr. Whitaker, Mr. Singleton and Carl Franklin remain hopeful that a new genre of black films, depicting relationships and themes that have not been explored in the past, will take hold among moviegoers, black and white.
"A lot of people, especially a lot of young blacks, thought that you were not really black unless you were from the 'hood, and there was a pressure somehow to identify with that experience," said Mr. Franklin, who also directed the highly praised low-budget thriller "One False Move." "But I look at Berry Gordy of Motown, who took black music and fused it with a lot of elements of classical music, strings and French horns, and created a sound that the world never heard before."
"And that's what we should do," he said. "People should realize that black people are not just urban, not just confined to the urban experience, that we are more international, more cosmopolitan and certainly more unpredictable than that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: New movies with black themes: John Travolta, left, and Harry Belafonte in "White Man's Burden" (above) (Bob Marshak/Rysher Entertainment); from left, Whitney Houston, Loretta Devine, Lela Rochon and Angela Bassett in "Waiting to Exhale" (top right) (20th Century Fox); and Denzel Washington in "Devil in a Blue Dress" (top left) (D. Stevens/Tri-Star Pictures) (pg. C11); "Dead Presidents," a film starring Larenz Tate, left, Freddy Rodriguez, center, and Chris Tucker, is one of several new movies by black directors that go beyond narrow portraits of ghetto youths. (Hollywood Pictures) (pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BLACKS VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); SCANDALS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (70%); CHRISTMAS (63%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (61%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD WHITNEY HOUSTON (79%); DENZEL WASHINGTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



222 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Security Doesn't Justify Arctic Drilling

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Arctic Refuge Drilling Won't Threaten Wildlife" (letters, Sept. 6) were so rife with errors and outdated information, they demand correction. 
 First, the argument that we must drill our last great wilderness for the sake of national security has been soundly rejected. In this age of diversified energy sources, neither the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries nor any other oil supplier can hold the United States hostage. An editorial in Oil and Gas Journal concluded that "imported oil doesn't harm U.S. security." Even the pro-drilling Alaska Congressional delegation and its allies have rejected this argument by supporting repeal of the longtime ban on Alaska North Slope oil exports.
Second, though the specific area under attack constitutes a fraction of the refuge, it is the "biological heart" and "center of wildlife activity" of the entire refuge, according to the Interior Department.
Third, since the late 1980's the General Accounting Office and United States Geological Survey have updated their projections. The survey has cut its expectations of technically recoverable oil in half, and the newer G.A.O. information leads to the conclusion that the odds of finding economically recoverable oil in the refuge are razor-thin.
Fourth, the most recent Interior Department study concludes that drilling the Arctic Refuge will do far more damage to this fragile wilderness than previously thought. And even the Reagan Administration Interior Department projected serious harm to polar bears, musk ox and snow geese, among other residents of the refuge.
As for the caribou, they use the area under debate to bear and nurse their young. When deep snow doesn't allow them to reach this preferred area in time, calf survival is not nearly as high. Oil drilling activities would drive the pregnant cows from this optimal calving area as they have the caribou that used to calve near Prudhoe Bay. This is one reason the Interior Department predicted a 50 percent drop in the population.
 
SUSAN ALEXANDER
Vice President, Environment
Public Media Center
San Francisco, Sept. 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: ARCTIC (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC MEDIA CENTER THE MEDIA CENTRE (52%); PUBLIC MEDIA CENTER (59%); PUBLIC MEDIA CENTER (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC MEDIA CENTER PUBLIC MEDIA CENTER (59%); PUBLIC MEDIA CENTER (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC REGIONS; ARCTIC (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALASKA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995



223 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: Visit by Pope Sets the Multitudes in Motion

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

 BODY:
It is no ordinary feat, the hosting and hailing of a Pope. There are choirs to be assembled and hymns to be arranged, paths to be charted for motorcades and priests to be enlisted for the serving of communion to jampacked arenas of the faithful.
And then there is the shopping. 
 Where do you find 10,000 gold-and-white mums to encircle the altar at Giants Stadium in New Jersey? Or 60,000 movable chairs for the throngs who will congregate at Aqueduct Race Track in Queens?
The source for the latter turned out to be a party rental business in Great Neck, L.I. Its owner, Bernard Samet, boasted that he "did not flinch" at the order. "But the carpeting," Mr. Samet said, "now that caught me off guard." He must provide 320,000 square feet to transform the dusty track into the pristine flooring of a holy place.
On Oct. 4, Pope John Paul II is scheduled to touch down at Newark International Airport for four whirlwind days of public and private ceremonies in and around New York City, followed by a single day of similar events in Baltimore.
It is the first time the Pope has toured New York City since 1979 and the first time a Pope has ever visited New Jersey. Befitting that milestone, planners expect 88,000 people for his Mass in Giants Stadium. It would be by far the largest the arena has ever accommodated.
For millions of Catholics in New York and New Jersey, the Pope's visit, a rescheduling of a trip that was canceled last year as he recovered from hip replacement surgery, is a rare opportunity to hear the prayers and heed the blessings of the Pope in the states and cities where they live and worship.
For the legions of Catholic officials organizing the visit, it is all that and more. The Pope's frenetic tour through these parts presents a logistical challenge that is staggering in scale and daunting in detail.
Hardly a minute is unplanned; hardly an hour is unrehearsed. Harried organizers of what might well be described as an ecclesiastical blockbuster fret over matters as large as the equitable distribution of free tickets to the Pope's public ceremonies and as small as the height of the chairs he will occupy.
The seat of his custom-made throne in Giants Stadium will be about 23 inches high, rather than the usual 17 to 18, so the Pope won't have to crouch down and rise up so steeply, potentially aggravating his hip, said those involved in its design.
"The Pope doesn't really sit," said Anthony V. Genovese, a liturgical architect supervising the arrangement of the altar area. "He just leans."
What he will lean against took a Fairview, N.J., furniture maker more than a week to carve by hand from birch wood, to upholster in cardinal red, to paint a pearly white and to gild with shimmering shades of gold leaf.
"Everything is larger than life -- the whole affair," said the craftsman, Hans Kraenzlein, who has also built a 64-square-foot altar, the biggest he has ever made.
Mr. Kraenzlein, a Catholic, said there was now only one more exalted boss for whom he could work: God. "I'm hoping I have a little more time before that happens," he said.
Mr. Kraenzlein is not alone in feeling a sense of honor in being able to take some essential part in the Pope's tour.
In northern New Jersey, 2,000 Catholic schoolchildren are readying greetings and carefully chosen wardrobes for their special role in welcoming the Pope at the airport.
And in Brooklyn, 400 Catholic singers from diverse backgrounds have practiced 45 hours for their moment onstage beside the Pope during the Mass at Aqueduct.
Brian Zuar, director of music ministry for the Diocese of Brooklyn, said the choir had learned songs in Korean and other languages so that its program would reflect the diversity of Catholics in New York City.
The preparations for the Pope's Masses at Giants Stadium, Aqueduct and Central Park illuminate a little-known but bustling economy of architects and other artisans who specialize in the sacred. D'Ambrosio Ecclesiastical Art Studios, a company in Mount Kisco, N.Y., will provide the altar at Aqueduct, a wedge of Vermont green and Carrara white marble that weighs three tons.
The preparations also forge a curious alliance between the worlds of religion and rock-and-roll, spirituality and show business.
At most of the Pope's appearances, there will be enormous TV screens and speaker systems to make certain that everyone inside the venues -- and, in some cases, outside -- can see and hear.
For Giants Stadium, Catholic officials have hired concert sound consultants whose previous clients included the Electric Light Orchestra and Linda Ronstadt.
For Central Park, officials have hired production managers whose past gigs include Wigstock, the annual showcase of the city's most flamboyant female impersonators.
And for both those venues and Aqueduct, officials have hired a stage builder whose platforms have previously supported the likes of Madonna and Michael Jackson.
The builder, Jim Evans, who owns a Pennsylvania company, Mountain Productions, said he had never before worked with so many people looking over his shoulder, from Vatican representatives to United States Secret Service agents.
To transport all the staging for the Pope's various appearances, Mr. Evans estimated that he would use 52 tractor-trailers.
By one estimate, there will be more than 1,000 portable toilets in Central Park; more than 1,400 buses transporting people to and from Giants Stadium; more than 250,000 communion wafers available at the three large Masses, and more than 75,000 rosaries distributed at the Aqueduct service.
That's not to mention Mr. Samet's 60,000 chairs. While Giants Stadium has extensive permanent seating and Central Park won't provide many people with perches, Aqueduct needs to erect impromptu pews from scratch.
All of this will cost plenty. The Archdiocese of Newark expects to spend $1.1 million. The Diocese of Brooklyn puts its costs at $1.5 million. The Archdiocese of New York has not released a figure, but a spokesman, Joseph Zwilling, said its expenditures should well exceed those of Newark or Brooklyn.
By church custom, the expenses of a papal visit are borne by the host Catholic dioceses. Each diocese in the New York City area will try to recoup its costs primarily through special calls for contributions at parishes in coming weeks.
Some dioceses also hope to benefit from the sale of memorabilia. The official merchant of souvenirs, Robbi Promotional Advertising of Newark, N.J., is offering about 25 products ranging from T-shirts to video cassettes.
What all of this planning and effort will create is the opportunity for Catholics to get closer to the Pope than many ever anticipated they would. Between Giants Stadium, Aqueduct, Central Park and smaller events at St. Joseph Seminary in Yonkers, Sacred Heart Cathedral in Newark and St. Patrick's Cathedral in Manhattan, there are nearly 300,000 tickets.
None of the tickets, however, is up for grabs; most have been allocated to various dioceses in New York and New Jersey to be distributed randomly to parishes within those dioceses, while a smaller percentage have been set aside for religious orders and special groups -- like organizations of young Catholics -- whom the Pope would like to reach.
 
Seeing the Pope
 These are the major sites the Pope will be visiting in and around New York City.
 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4
Sacred Heart Cathedral, Newark: The Pope will hold a 5 P.M. prayer service for about 1,800 people. The public can gather in streets around the cathedral for what will be the only unticketed appearance by the Pope during his entire tour.
 
THURSDAY, OCT. 5
United Nations: The Pope's morning address to the General Assembly not open to the public.
Giants Stadium, the Meadowlands, N.J: The Pope will celebrate a 6 P.M. Mass. Most tickets will be distributed to dioceses in New Jersey.
 
FRIDAY, OCT. 6
Aqueduct Race Track, Queens: The Pope will celebrate a 9:30 A.M. Mass. The Diocese of Brooklyn controls the majority of tickets, but is donating 15,000 tickets to the Diocese of Rockville Center, L.I..
St. Joseph's Seminary, Yonkers: The Pope will address seminarians in a private ceremony. But 20,000 ticketed people will gather on the grounds for a tour by the Pope.
 
SATURDAY, OCT. 7
Central Park: The Pope will celebrate a 9:30 A.M. Mass on the Great Lawn. Tickets will go to Catholic youth youth groups and schoolchildren, with most of the rest distributed in the Archdiocese of New York. People without tickets can gather in a meadow north of the Great Lawn and watch the service on a large screen.
St. Patrick's Cathedral: The Pope will recite the rosary in a 3:30 P.M. prayer service for about 4,000 people with tickets.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the items being marketed by Robbi Promotional Advertising, the official merchandiser for the Pope's visit: Pope baseball caps, John Paul T-shirts and Holy Father Calendars. (pg. A1); Anthony V. Genovese, left, the architect overseeing the construction of the altar for Pope John Paul II's mass in Giants Stadium, discussing plans yesterday with John P. Minieri of the Archdiocese of Newark. (Bob Esposito for The New York Times) (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ROBBI PROMOTIONAL ADVERTISING NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ROBBI PROMOTIONAL ADVERTISING NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); FURNITURE MFG (71%); CITIES (66%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (65%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (63%); AIRPORTS (52%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) POPE JOHN PAUL II (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



224 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: Triumph and Loss As Wolves Return To Yellowstone

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

DATELINE: YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, Wyo.

 BODY:
THE evening breeze had died and a setting sun was gilding the slopes of the Lamar Valley as Mike Phillips gazed across the steep ravine of Rose Creek and whispered to a visitor, "That area of matted grass to the left of the aspens and the right of the sagebrush -- see it?"
There, perhaps 500 yards away, a young, gray female wolf was taking her ease. Three other young wolves, all black, soon came into view through the binoculars. Now 19 weeks old, a little bigger than coyotes and nearly half grown, the four are part of a litter of eight, the first known reproduction by resident wolves in the Yellowstone ecosystem in seven decades and a signal step toward rescuing the gray wolf from the endangered list. 
 It is a tale of triumph and tragedy with touches of soap opera. The unexpected birth and early survival of the Rose Creek "puppies," as their Federal monitors call them, has helped make the first seven months of the highly controversial effort to restore wolves to Yellowstone more successful than expected. But the father of the pups, a majestic, 122-pound, deep-voiced gray alpha male from Canada simply called Ten, was shot and killed, Federal officials charge, by an unemployed carpenter who took the pelt and head. If convicted, he faces a possible term in Federal prison for killing a member of an endangered species.
The mother of the pups, a black wolf called Nine, abandoned but unwilling to move lest her mate return, gave birth on exposed bare ground, with no protective den, near the town of Red Lodge, Mont., on the outskirts of greater Yellowstone. Federal wildlife biologists recaptured the mother and three-week-old pups and returned them to the fenced enclosure on Rose Creek where Nine and Ten met, mated and lived during their first two months in Yellowstone before being released to the wild.
There, Park Service biologists led by Mr. Phillips, the manager of the Yellowstone wolf recovery effort, have been acting as surrogate fathers, providing the pups with meat. All eight pups escaped in late July when fallen trees broke the fencing of their pen, explaining the presence of the four on the side of the ravine (one of the four has since been recaptured). Their mother has not left the pen, which has been re-secured, so the escapees stay reasonably close.
Ten left a precious legacy: with his many offspring there are now nearly 25 wolves in Yellowstone and the wolf reintroduction project has taken a major leap toward its goal of 100 wolves, or 10 packs, by 2002. When that goal has also been reached in two other areas, in Utah and northwestern Montana, the gray wolf is to be taken off the endangered list in the contiguous 48 states. The species is plentiful and not endangered in Alaska and Canada.
The Yellowstone reintroduction project began last January when three groups of wolves trapped in Canada were put into widely separated acclimation pens in the Lamar Valley. The project has been "extremely successful," said Dr. L. David Mech, an adviser to the project and a leading wolf expert who is with the National Biological Service based at the University of Minnesota in St. Paul.
First, he says, the wolves have bred successfully this year, despite the stress of being moved from their native habitat in Canada and then kept in pens. They had not been expected to reproduce before next year.
Second, they have not migrated back to Alberta since being released from the pens in March, as had been feared. Third, they have killed none of the livestock on the fringes of the park, although it is assumed they will do so eventually. Many ranchers vehemently opposed the reintroduction plan, even though experience in northwestern Montana, where wolves have reappeared naturally in the last decade, has shown that wolf attacks on livestock are rare and that wolves prefer the wild game with which they evolved over the millenniums. Here, as in Montana, ranchers are to be reimbursed for any documented losses to wolves, from a compensation fund maintained by the Defenders of Wildlife, a conservation group in Washington.
All in all, says Dr. Mech, "it is a wonderful start to a monumental conservation effort."
The return of the wolves has struck a chord with the public. Rick McIntyre, a park ranger who leads "wolf hikes" in the Lamar Valley and lectures on wolves, has spoken to almost 40,000 people this summer, confirming the argument that wolves can increase tourism in the region.
But not all opponents have conceded. In July, the Senate Appropriations Committee approved a measure introduced by Conrad Burns, Republican of Montana, to cut funds for the wolf restoration project.
Wildlife biologists say still more animals must be introduced into Yellowstone to assure genetic diversity and hasten the gray wolf's exit from the list of endangered species.
The wolf was the top predator in Yellowstone, and a keystone species of its ecology, until 1926. It was then that the last two animals were killed by park rangers near Soda Butte in the Lamar Valley as part of a formal extermination program. One of three new packs introduced from Canada now bears the name of Soda Butte, after the site of the temporary pen where the wolves were kept to break their homing instinct.
On its release the Soda Butte pack headed north, to a wilderness area in Montana outside the park, then retreated south again. The pack seems to have settled around the park's northern border, radio tracking of the wolves' movements shows.
A second group, called the Crystal Bench pack, has settled farther south, adopting the Lamar River as the northern boundary of its territory.
Once released from their acclimation pen last March, the Crystal Bench wolves romped in the snow, rolled on their backs and looked for all the world as if they were celebrating. In the following weeks they conducted a seminar in wolf behavior and ecology for their discreet human observers. The younger wolves chased and ambushed one another, occasionally tossing up a chunk of meat and leaping to catch it in midair. Once, a young pronghorn antelope teased a yearling wolf, shifting into warp speed and leaving the wolf in the dust when it tried to pursue.
The pack also encountered a grizzly bear and her two cubs. With their weak eyesight, the bears at first ran away but then regrouped as if realizing, in Mr. McIntyre's words, "Hey, we don't have to run from these guys, they're just wolves." After a tense nose-to-nose confrontation between the mother bear and the wolves' alpha female, the two sides engaged in mutual chasing back and forth before declaring a standoff.
On another occasion, as hundreds of people watched, three young wolves teamed up to steal from a grizzly an elk calf it had killed.
One observer captured on videotape the wolves' tactics in killing a calf themselves. They picked one calf out of the herd and gave chase. Unable to outrun the wolves, it dropped down into the grass in an attempt to hide. When the mother elk rushed to protect it, the wolves harassed the mother from several directions. The mother chased one wolf a little too far, upon which the others pounced on the calf. Other elk came to help, but it was too late.
Another videotape shows the pack tentative and uncertain around bison. Wolves historically preyed on bison, but these Canadian transplants have had no previous experience with them. On the tape, the bison took no guff and easily routed the wolves by charging them in a mini-stampede. The wolves may be learning, however. Following elk back from their high-country summer pastures to a cooler and briefly snow-dusted Lamar Valley late last month, they met the bison again. This time the bison fled. The wolves did not make a kill but appeared instead to be testing the big beasts.
What all this adds up to, says Mr. McIntyre, is a restoration of natural ecological processes. The effects of the wolves' predation are expected in time to ripple through the Yellowstone ecosystem, helping reduce swollen elk herds, improving the herds' genetic health by weeding out the weak and sick, taking some pressure off vegetation eaten by overabundant elk, creating carrion for an array of scavengers and affecting natural relationships in thousands of small ways.
But the birth of the family of Nine and Ten has been the big surprise of the project, and has provided its most poignant moments. Nine and Ten, who had never previously laid eyes on each other, were put in the Rose Creek acclimation pen along with Nine's 10-month-old female pup to become the nucleus of a new pack. Immediately, Ten tried to dominate Nine through threatening behavior, but Nine, being an alpha female, did not cower as wolf hierarchy decrees. Soon they were, in wolf terms, a heavy item.
When the trio was released in March, Ten bounded out right away. But a pregnant Nine, apparently afraid of the gate, which she associated with her human captors, refused to leave. The big male stayed around for five days, trying to coax out his mate. The fact that he would do so, knowing feared humans were about, shows how strong the bonding is between wolves, said Mr. McIntyre.
After Nine did finally leave, the pair struck out north-northeast, toward Red Lodge. Nine's daughter separated from the pair and headed into the north-central part of the park, to its Hellroaring area, where she is successfully killing prey as a lone wolf. It was on April 26 that Ten's radio collar sent out the accelerated series of beeps that signals death.
His offspring are almost ideal from the standpoint of the reintroduction project: four females, three black and one gray, designated 16 through 19, and four black males, named 20 through 23. "It's a great litter," says Mr. Phillips.
The pups now weigh perhaps 35 pounds each but are not yet competent hunters. Mr. Phillips says they probably have not yet even advanced to the preliminary "mousing" stage of learning to hunt. Besides, their permanent teeth are not yet fully developed.
Chad McKittrick, the man accused of killing Ten, goes on trial on Oct. 2 in Federal District Court in Billings, Mont. Sherry Scheel Matteucci, the prosecutor, intends to seek the maximum penalty of two years in prison or a $150,000 fine. "I want the message to be clearly sent," she said. "You mess with these animals and you will pay a substantial price."
If all continues to go well, Nine and her pups should be released around the time of the trial or soon afterward. Then will begin another phase of the saga. Nine has been unlucky in love; she was separated from a Canadian mate by civilian trappers who captured her for the reward, and the previous mate may have been killed as well. Will she pick out a new mate from the Crystal Bench pack, as biologists hope, thus promoting some lucky young wolf to alpha status? Will her daughter do the same?
The soap opera continues, and on its outcome depends the future integrity of the Yellowstone ecosystem.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pup in litter born near Yellowstone. (Jim Peaco/National Park Service) (pg. C1); Pup, now coyote-sized, was taken with siblings and mother to holding pen after father was killed. (Jim Peaco/National Park Service) (pg. C4)
 
Map of Wyoming (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (91%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (91%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK; UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MONTANA, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOLVES; REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES NATIONAL PARKS (92%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (88%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); DOGS (75%); HOMICIDE (71%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



225 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Mitsubishi Plans to Scrap Stake in Rockefeller Center
Mitsubishi Estate plans to walk away from its investment of almost $2 billion in Rockefeller Center and pass ownership to the real estate investment trust that holds the $1.3 billion mortgage on the bankrupt property. 
 Mitsubishi made its proposal in a meeting with the trust's management, according to advisers involved in the negotiations. The plan would also apparently sever the last ties to the Rockefeller family. [Page A1.]
 
Mitsubishi's decision to walk away from Rockefeller Center is likely to symbolize Japanese folly to Americans, just as its purchase came to symbolize a perceived Japanese "threat" in the 1980's. [D6.]
 
Daimler-Benz Reports Loss
Daimler-Benz reported a net loss of $1.06 billion in the first half, as the mark's strength against the dollar caused the German company to take a charge of $816 million. [D4.]
 
Pataki Says Lilco Should Go
Governor George E. Pataki called for the dissolution of the Long Island Lighting Company, indicating that move was central to cutting Long Island's electric rates. [A1.]
 
Dollar Above 100 Yen
Piercing the psychological barrier of 100 yen, the dollar rose to an eight-month high in Asian trading today on expectations that the Bank of Japan would intervene again in the foreign-exchange markets. [D8.]
 
Stocks advanced, with traders focusing on the growth of corporate earnings. [D12.]
 
Hackers Caught in Computer Sting
The United States Secret Service arrested at least six computer hackers after setting up a sting operation by using a computer bulletin board to troll for people illegally trafficking in cellular telephone codes. [B1.]
 
Hughes to Buy Magnavox
Hughes Aircraft has agreed to buy Magnavox Electronic Systems, which makes military systems, from the Carlyle Group for $370 million in cash. [D2.]
 
Merger in Forest Industry
United Paper Mills and the Kymmene Corporation have agreed to merge, creating Europe's largest forestry company. [D4.]
 
Pickens Steps Back From Plan
T. Boone Pickens, chairman of Mesa Inc., said he would exclude himself from a controversial "golden parachute" severance plan. [D2.]
 
G.M. Settles Truck Lawsuits
G.M. has settled four lawsuits resulting from fatal crashes and fires involving pickup trucks with side-mounted gasoline tanks. [A16.]
 
The Struggle of Russian Banks
With little good information to guide them, and not much regulation, Russians face a choice among thousands of banks, but the weaker ones have begun failing. [A1.]
 
Surveys See Soft Landing
The consensus of the National Association of Business Economists and the newsletter Blue Chip Economic Indicators is that the economy has reached a soft landing. [D2.]
 
CBS Puts Muscle Behind Show
CBS is undertaking all types of unorthodox marketing tactics to build buzz for "Central Park West," as the network tries to attract younger audiences. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D10.]
 
Buchwald Settles Movie Claim
Paramount Pictures and Art Buchwald have agreed to settle their seven-year dispute over the film "Coming to America," with Mr. Buchwald and a co-plaintiff, Alain Bernheim, being paid more than $1 million. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (82%); NG (LSE) (82%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); DTV (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (82%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (82%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (82%); KYMMENE CORP (64%); MESA INC (63%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%); DIRECTV (53%); UNITED PAPER MILLS LTD (53%); UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE (54%); UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE (54%); UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); COMPUTER CRIME (69%); GERMAN MARK (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (62%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (62%); SEVERANCE PAY (60%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (60%); UTILITY RATES (52%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (52%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (50%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); EDDIE GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



226 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: In New Economy, Russians Cannot Rely on Their Banks

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 11

 BODY:
The Moskovsky Gorodskoi Bank does not have a cash machine. It does not have a customer service desk or loan officers. It does not have deposit insurance. And at the moment it does not have the $500 that Vladimir A. Shcherbakov entrusted to it.
As he stood outside the bank's main branch, a dilapidated storefront, Mr. Shcherbakov, who needed his money to buy a car, was confronted first by a sign saying no withdrawals could be made for 10 days. Then he was confronted by two men with shiny suits blocking the door, telling him politely but firmly to go away. 
 It seems that the bank's chairman, Anton Dolgov, disappeared late last month, taking with him a large but unspecified amount of the bank's money, according to Russian newspapers. Then the bank, which used the advertising slogan "A Nice Bank Is a Stable Bank," got caught in a nationwide banking crisis that briefly paralyzed the entire Russian financial system at the end of August and pushed Moskovsky Gorodskoi Bank, or Moscow City Bank, to the brink of collapse.
In Russia, banking has developed a reputation as a risky business, especially for bankers, who are gunned down with horrifying frequency by mobsters intent on intimidation and extortion.
But it is no picnic either for ordinary Russians who want someplace to put their money. With little good information to guide them, and not much regulation to rein in unscrupulous or unqualified bankers, Russians face a choice among thousands of institutions of wildly varying strength and probity, most of which have sprung up since the country began its shift to a market economy.
The situation has become particularly dicey in the last few weeks as weaker banks have begun failing and Russia has woken up to just how shaky its financial system is. The stakes are high, and not only for depositors and bankers.
The Government's efforts to stabilize the economy have brought down inflation, but have left most Russians insecure if not disillusioned or angry about their march toward capitalism. With parliamentary elections coming in December and a presidential election scheduled for June, a major financial crisis could have serious political consequences.
Moreover, Russia's ability to stabilize its nascent banking system will be a big factor in determining the speed and success of its entire economic metamorphosis. Companies need well-run, honest banks to provide financing for modernization and expansion -- a role that very few Russian banks are willing or able to play today. And consumers need banks to help modernize a system of handling money that remains primitive by the standards of the United States or Western Europe.
"I've got no idea if I'll get my money back," Mr. Shcherbakov, a 42-year-old civil servant, said as he paced nervously in front of his bank. "I'm resigned to losing it. But if I do get it back, I'll change my rubles into dollars and hold on to it myself."
There are more than 2,500 banks in Russia. They include about 50 big institutions that assert that they will soon rival American and European banks in sophistication if not stability.
The rest are a grab bag, ranging from fronts set up to launder money for organized crime to legitimate institutions that do little traditional banking business but concentrate on currency speculation or a variety of other investment schemes.
Officials at Russia's central bank estimate that 300 small banks are in dire financial straits. They said they are already planning to revoke the licenses of about 80 of them.
Some bankers say that a greater number of banks are at risk, and that the failures will include medium-sized and bigger banks.
"I expect more problems for the banking system," said Boris Sergeyev, a director of Toko Bank, one of the larger and more stable of Russia's banks. "It's a stage in the development of the banking system, and it will result in the failure of many of the less professionally managed banks."
Partly because of the state of the banking system, Russia remains a cash-driven economy. Checks are almost nonexistent. Banks constantly send crateloads of currency around Moscow in armored trucks that speed through the streets like ambulances, lights flashing and sirens wailing.
Workers are usually paid in cash, and many of them so distrust banks that they keep their money under their mattresses -- sometimes literally -- even if it means sacrificing some of the value of their rubles to inflation. The most popular form of money management by far is to exchange rubles, which have declined precipitously in value, for dollars. Most big banks advertise for dollar deposits.
No one, it seems, is immune to the problems of the banks. Mayor Yuri Luzhkov of Moscow complained on Thursday that even the city could not get access to all of its money, with its banks limiting it to about a quarter of the daily withdrawals it wanted to make.
In a survey released on Friday, the Center for International Sociological Studies, a research institute based in Moscow, found that 65 percent of respondents in big cities around the country said they were being hurt by the banking crisis.
The survey, of 4,000 people in six cities, found that while 27.5 percent of respondents would choose to save their money in Sberbank, the state-run savings institution that is regarded as the safest and most conservative option, 53 percent would choose not to put their money in any bank at all.
Last month's crisis, set off when banks stopped lending to one another, fearful that they would not be repaid, was the clearest sign yet of how far Russia's financial development has to go. Because banks rely on short-term loans from one another to keep their operations going, the freezing up of the so-called interbank market brought the whole industry to a halt.
That crisis eased somewhat after several days when the central bank stepped in with emergency loans to get the system operating by encouraging banks to lend to one another. But bankers said the system could grind to a halt again at any time -- a situation that has made depositors that much more nervous and led more people to seek to withdraw their money, making the crisis even more acute.
The crisis is rapidly separating the well-managed banks from those that probably cannot survive. Many others have survived so far only because high inflation and the tumbling value of the ruble have made it easy for anyone with cash to make money.
In its simplest form, the strategy followed by many banks has been to take in deposits in rubles, convert them into dollars, wait for inflation and the declining value of the ruble to erode the Russian currency's value, and then convert the dollars back into a far greater number of rubles than they started with.
The opportunities to make that kind of easy money are rapidly drawing to an end, however. Inflation has fallen from 18 percent a month at the beginning of this year to less than 5 percent a month. The ruble's value has stabilized at around 4,500 to the dollar, roughly half its value of a year ago, and the Government has committed itself to keeping the currency within a range of 4,300 to 4,900 for the rest of the year.
That Russia has a sizable banking system at all is something of an accomplishment. Under the Soviet system, banking was largely limited to a relatively few institutions that funneled state subsidies to industry or handled specialized tasks like financing foreign trade.
Some of the banks that line Moscow's streets today are well on their way to meeting Western standards. The bigger banks issue Visa cards, and a few, like Most Bank, are now issuing their own debit cards, which allow customers to have purchases charged directly to their bank accounts. There are a few cash machines scattered around town, though they remain novelties.
There are 10 big foreign banks operating in Russia, including Citibank and Chase Manhattan from the United States. Restricted in size by Russian regulation and wary of the risks of operating here, they finance trade, make some business loans and trade Government bonds, but are not big forces in Russian banking.
For Russians, it is still easy to pick the wrong bank, as many are now finding out.
At the headquarters of a medium-sized institution called Chasprombank on Friday, two dozen depositors out of several thousand who had placed their savings with the institution were demanding to know why they could not get their money out. The bank had ordered them not to stand at the front door, but instead to wait in back in a muddy courtyard occupied by some aging cars and a mangy dog. No one from the bank was around to give any answers.
Instead, depositors were directed to a bulletin board, where the bank had posted copies of letters it had sent to the central bank seeking a bailout from its financial problems. There was also a list of how depositors would be ranked when it came to getting their money back. First would come war veterans and pensioners, then Heroes of the Soviet Union and Heroes of Socialist Labor, then everyone else.
"I will never trust anybody again!" shrieked an elderly woman, who declined to give her name. She said that she wanted her $250 in savings to help pay for her mother's burial, but that she was No. 353 on a list of depositors seeking to get their money out.
"I wouldn't give anybody a single kopeck ever again," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The nascent Russian banking system is a risky business. At Chasprombank in Moscow, two dozen depositors were forced to go to the back door when they tried to find out why they could not withdraw their money. (Otto Pohl for The New York Times) (pg. A10)
 
Graph: "SURVEY: Russians and Their Banks"
 These are some questions asked in a poll taken last week by the Center of International Sociological Studies of 4,000 people in six cities in Russia. Percentages do not equal 100 because all those questioned did not answer.
 
QUESTION: Did the banking crisis affect your interest?
 Yes -- 65%
 No -- 13%
 
QUESTION: Is there a need for reform of the banking system?
 Yes -- 71%
 No -- 8.5%

QUESTION: In what type of bnak do your perfer to keep your savings?
 State saving bank -- 27.5%
 Commercial bank -- 13%
 No bank -- 53%

QUESTION: How do you assess the prospect of Russia's coming out of the financial crisis?
 Good -- 5%
 Average -- 21%
 Complicated -- 47%
 Hopeless -- 17% (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; EXTORTION AND BLACKMAIL; ORGANIZED CRIME; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); EXTORTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (90%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (75%); TRENDS (74%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); RETAILERS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); CIVIL SERVICES (62%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (61%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (53%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W VLADIMIR A SHCHERBAKOV (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



227 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: Alaska Republicans Push Subsidy for Logging

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: KETCHIKAN, Alaska

 BODY:
The rivers rushing from the steep, misted forests of the Alaska Panhandle are clogged with salmon, as a massive surge of coho moves upstream to spawn and die. In towns like Sitka and Ketchikan, the once-rowdy docks are similarly clogged -- but with tourists, disgorged by the thousands from cruise ships.
All summer long, restaurants have been full. Hotels and lodges have been booked. Seafood processors are rushing to harvest, freeze and ship out some of the prodigious protein that courses through saltwater inlets here. Never before have there been so many jobs in Southeast Alaska. 
 Yet, for all the apparent prosperity, this region of big fish, big trees and big fortunes needs an old-fashioned Government jobs program to keep it from sinking into a harsh recession, according to legislation being pushed by Alaska's all-Republican Congressional delegation.
The state's two Senators, newly installed in two of the most powerful committee positions in Congress, are pushing a bill that would require the Federal Government to provide Southeast Alaska with 2,400 timber jobs -- at a cost to taxpayers of up to $30 million a year, according to Forest Service estimates. The area now has about half that many jobs in timber.
In Alaska, where the politics of pork has long been a much stronger guiding principle than ideology, the fight over timber jobs has put the two major political parties at odds with their national identities. Here, it is the Republicans who are pushing for a deficit-adding jobs bill and the Democrats who are saying that free enterprise should be allowed to work the kind of market magic that is finally taking hold in this state.
Senator Frank H. Murkowski, the chief sponsor of the bill, says timber jobs are the best-paying in the area and provide for long-term stability. He says the Forest Service has reneged on a promise to provide a certain amount of logs to the industry from the vast Tongass National Forest.
But critics say that if the two Alaskan Senators were promoting midnight basketball programs, instead of money-losing timber jobs, their Southeast Alaska Jobs and Communities Protection Act, would be laughed out of the Senate.
Even supporters worry that the bill, co-sponsored by Mr. Murkow ski's fellow Republican, Senator Ted Stevens, might be a tough sell.
Chris Gates, the spokesman for the Alaska Forest Association, whose timber industry members have the most to gain by the bill, said, "If you try to be honest and say it's a jobs bill, it sounds like you're talking about some kind of Communist make-work program."
The push for mandatory timber jobs comes as southeast Alaska has just posted its best employment figures in five years. State officials say the unemployment rate in the Panhandle for July was 5.2 percent, while the national average was 5.9 percent. While timber jobs declined by 40 percent in the last four years, the area added thousands of jobs in seafood processing, tourism and government.
The timber jobs bill and a similar measure that Mr. Stevens has added as a rider to the Interior Department's appropriations bill would make the Tongass the only national forest where jobs were the pre-eminent purpose of managing the land. As chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Mr. Murkowski is in a position to guide the bill through Congress. Mr. Stevens ranks second on the Appropriations Committee.
But nothing in the tortured history of the Tongass has ever been typical. At 17 million acres, it is the largest national forest in America, with the nation's only intact temperate-zone rain forest. Its islands of spruce and hemlock, most of them unpopulated and never logged, are one reason this area is considered the salmon capital of the world. Sportsmen flock here, chasing trophy king salmon of up to 50 pounds. And for those who run commercial boats, the term millionaire fisherman is not an oxymoron.
Because of the distance from markets, the rough terrain and harsh weather -- it rains 150 inches a year in the Panhandle -- large-scale logging has seldom been profitable. It was the Federal Government, in the late 1950's, that created the timber industry, to provide jobs to a sparsely populated area. The Government promised two large companies that if they set up pulp mills here they would be assured a long-term supply of cheap wood from the Tongass. For years, two companies paid less than the price of a cheeseburger for a 500-year-old tree.
But two years ago one of the original mills, run by the Japanese-owned Alaska Pulp Company, closed its plant in Sitka, putting 400 people out of work. It also closed a sawmill in the town of Wrangell, with the loss of nearly 200 jobs.
Now, Southeast Alaska is left with only one big timber concern, the Ketchikan Pulp Company, which provides nearly 1,000 jobs at its mill here. But it, too, is threatening to leave Alaska. The company says the Forest Service is not allowing it to cut enough logs to run a profitable operation.
The Clinton Administration has "created a shortage that is political," said Troy Reinhart, a spokesman for Ketchikan Pulp. Senator Murkowski's bill, he said, would give the company the wood it needs.
Typically, a company bids for timber on Government-owned land. In most national forests, the Government breaks even on these sales or makes some money. But figures show that in the last three years the Government lost $20 million on the timber program in the Tongass National Forest. Industry blames Government inefficiency for the loss, rather than the logistical problems of building roads and other basics that the Government cites.
Critics say the real reason the company may pull up stakes is that it must invest nearly $70 million to clean up the water that has been polluted by waste discharges from its pulp-making operations. Company executives have pleaded guilty to 14 criminal counts of violating Federal pollution laws. The mill grinds logs into pulp, which is then sent overseas and converted into such things as rayon.
Long accustomed to a cozy relationship with managers of the Tongass National Forest, the timber industry has in recent years turned against them, filing lawsuits and castigating the rangers as pawns of environmentalists. "There is absolutely no control over those people running the Tongass," said Mr. Gates, the forest association spokesman. "They're protecting rocks over people. If you just let the industry lay out these timber sales, we could make money for the Government."
Administration officials say they are trying to run the Tongass for wildlife, fishing and tourism, as well as logging. "Our role is not to favor one industry over the other," said Jim Lyons, the Assistant Agriculture Secretary in charge of the United States Forest Service. "We can't manage the national forests by threat from either industry or environmentalists."
In the past, such criticism was dismissed here as typical Washington disregard for the concerns of average Alaskans. But more than ever, timber industry critics come from within the state. Senator Murkowski canceled a series of formal hearings in Alaska and in the capital on his bill after it became clear that many people in his home state opposed it. Instead, Mr. Murkowski held informal workshops to gauge public reaction.
In Sitka, where the mill closed two years ago, the Senator was greeted in August by hostile demonstrators and a crowd that overwhelmingly opposed the bill. It was criticized as "corporate welfare" and labeled by one environmental group as "the Tongass timber baron revival bill."
In Ketchikan, the logging stronghold of the Panhandle, speakers were almost evenly divided, though dozens of demonstrators held up signs supporting the bill.
The most significant opposition, perhaps, came from Gov. Tony Knowles, a Democrat. He had supported other efforts by the Alaska Congressional delegation to open the state to development, notably to oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. But on the Tongass, he parted company with the Republicans, saying that more logging was likely to threaten a booming and diversified economy in the southeast.
"This assumes that radical surgery from Washington, D.C., is needed to help our local communities," said the Governor's director of commerce and economic development, Willie Hensley. "Ironically, this notion of a planned or centralized economy is actually counterproductive to the goal of creating a strong, diverse economy."
Tourism jobs have increased 40 percent in four years, state officials say. Ketchikan tour operators like Dale Pihlman, who runs a fleet of boats taking visitors to places like the nearby Misty Fjords National Monument, says the timber bill, with the pollution and logging it would entail, would directly hurt his business.
"The visitor industry is more profitable and has a higher payroll by far than the timber industry," Mr. Pihlman said, "yet I can never get Senator Murkowski to listen to a word of our concerns. People in Southeast Alaska are finally realizing that untouched wilderness is a big resource. But our senators still don't get it."
This month, Senator Murkowski sold his stock in the Louisiana Pacific Corporation, which owns the mill in Ketchikan. He says his interest in mandating timber jobs has less to do with helping the mill and more to do with trying to get the Forest Service to live up to promises it made to keep a certain job base in Alaska.
The problem, critics say, is that keeping a certain number of timber jobs amounts to a direct Federal subsidy at a time when Congress is trying to balance the budget.
In the face of opposition within the state to the timber bill, Mr. Murkowski now says it may be dead until next year. But in place of the bill would be the rider that Senator Stevens attached to the appropriations bill. That clause would require more logging in the Tongass National Forest, over the objections of those who run the forest.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alaska's members of Congress are seeking to add jobs in the timber industry by allowing more cutting of trees in the Tongass National Forest, which includes Taku Inlet in the southeastern part of the state. (Don Pitcher/Alaska Stock Images)
 
Map shows the location of Tongass National Forest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: ALASKA PANHANDLE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); ALASKA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FISHES (90%); FORESTRY SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (88%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CRUISES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (73%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (72%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); SKIING (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: MURKOWSKI, FRANK H (SEN); STEVENS, TED (SEN); EGAN, TIMOTHY TED STEVENS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



228 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Urges Fight to Keep Student Loans

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: CARBONDALE, Ill., Sept. 11

 BODY:
Seeking to rally public support for student loan programs, President Clinton told a cheering university crowd here today that in the changing global economy "unless we better educate our people, too many of them will be left behind."
The President struck populist tones in attacking bankers and Washington lobbyists, as he fought for a program enacted by Congress in 1993 over the objections of banks to let the Government make direct college loans to students, who have a longer time than under the previous system to repay them. 
 The Republican-run Congress is considering scaling back or limiting the loan program in its effort to balance the Federal budget over seven years, arguing that a Federal bureaucracy is not needed to offer student loans and that loan volume will not be affected by shifting student loans back to the private sector.
But in his campaign-style appearance at Southern Illinois University here, Mr. Clinton attacked the loan system used before the direct Government loans, under which the Government guaranteed loans offered by banks. He said that system was "more cumbersome" and that it would "cost the students more money, which will lead to fewer people taking advantage of the loan program." He added, "But the banks will make their money back."
Mr. Clinton's address before a cheering crowd of thousands was fed by satellite to rallies in Minnesota, Louisiana and California, where he lobbied for education spending just last week at a middle school in the heavily agricultural Central Valley.
With the budget battle with Congress moving into high gear, Administration officials called the appearances part of an effort to put Republicans in Congress on the defensive over their plans to find $36 billion in savings in Federal education and training programs. And Mr. Clinton unabashedly urged his listeners: "Help me. Stand up. Write your members of Congress."
Vice President Al Gore made a similar stop today at the University of Pittsburgh, and 47 other Administration officials are being dispatched to education-related events around the country this week.
Mr. Clinton's own plan to balance the budget over 10 years calls for increased spending on education.
"The unmistakable fault line in America over who makes it and who doesn't today more than ever before is education," the President said. "So as we go back to school and the Congress goes back to work, the question is, Will your country continue to help those who want to help themselves."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Campaigning against Republican plans to change direct Government loans to college students, President Clinton was joined yesterday by Senator Paul Simon at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (83%); SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (83%); SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CREDIT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SIMON, PAUL (SEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



229 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Charles Hitch, 85, Dies; Led Turbulent U. of California

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
Charles J. Hitch, who served as president of the University of California at a time of campus unrest, budgetary restraints and legislative and administrative intervention, died yesterday in a rest home in San Leandro, Calif. Mr. Hitch, who lived in Berkeley, Calif., was 85.
An economist and Rhodes scholar who compiled an impressive record in academic and administrative posts, Mr. Hitch came to the nation's largest education institution -- then nine campuses with an enrollment approaching 90,000 -- from the Pentagon. As an Assistant Secretary of Defense from 1961 to 1965 in the Administrations of John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, Mr. Hitch was the controller who revolutionized military budgeting and prepared detailed military spending plans that accounted for roughly 55 cents of every dollar taxpayers paid the Federal Government. 
 In May 1965, he announced that he was leaving his post at the Pentagon to become vice chancellor of the University of California, where he would manage fiscal affairs.
In September 1967, the regents of the university ended a seven-month quest for a new president by unanimously choosing Mr. Hitch, then 57, to succeed Dr. Clark Kerr, whom they had dismissed the previous January, not long after the election of Gov. Ronald Reagan. Mr. Reagan had criticized Dr. Kerr frequently during his campaign and moved to cut higher education appropriations soon after taking office.
When Mr. Hitch became president of the University of California, it was already three years into the era of student activism ushered in by the Free Speech Movement at Berkeley. The pragmatic Mr. Hitch tried to steer a course through the acrimony generated by restive, sometimes riotous students and a punitive Governor and Legislature.
Mr. Hitch's efforts to retain the university's autonomy were not always successful. The university was compelled to abandon its free-tuition policy, to surrender to the regents its authority to appoint and promote tenured faculty and to take orders from the Legislature on disciplining students.
In 1975, when student unrest had given way to increased concern over budget cuts, Mr. Hitch retired. It had been announced the previous October that he had been elected president of Resources for the Future, a research organization in Washington concerned with natural resources. He retired in 1978.
Charles Johnson Hitch was born on Jan. 9, 1910, in Boonville, Mo. His father, Arthur, was a teacher and administrator at the Kemper Military School and College in Boonville, where Mr. Hitch graduated from the junior college in 1929.
Mr. Hitch received a bachelor of arts degree in economics from the University of Arizona in 1931. After a year of graduate work at Harvard, he won a Rhodes scholarship to Oxford University, where he earned a master's in 1935 and taught at Queen's College until 1948, with time out for World War II.
During the war, Mr. Hitch served as a staff economist on W. Averell Harriman's first lend-lease mission in London and with the War Production Board in Washington. In 1943, Mr. Hitch joined the Army and was assigned to the Office of Strategic Services. Two years later, he was discharged as a first lieutenant.
In 1948, Mr. Hitch joined the Rand Corporation, the nonprofit research organization. While there, Mr. Hitch and Ronald N. McKean wrote "The Economics of Defense in the Nuclear Age" (Harvard University Press, 1960). That work prompted Robert S. McNamara, who was to become Secretary of Defense, to invite Mr. Hitch to join President-elect Kennedy's Administration.
At the Pentagon, Mr. Hitch scrapped the system in which each service presented budget claims for programs that often conflicted. Mr. Hitch budgeted functionally, according to missions, and projected costs over five years.
Mr. Hitch's wife, the former Nancy Winslow Squire, whom he married in 1942, died in 1983. He is survived by his daughter, Caroline Hitch Rubio of Hayward, Calif., and two grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles J. Hitch (G. Paul Bishop, 1968)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (99%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (64%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (64%); STUDENT DISCIPLINE (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%); 

PERSON: HITCH, CHARLES J; VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



230 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: U.S. No Longer A Land Steeped In Wanderlust

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
A smaller percentage of Americans are pulling up their roots and moving out of state than at any time since 1950, the Census Bureau said today, suggesting that the great post-war population shifts that reshaped the country's political, social and economic landscape have, for the moment, come to an end.
The Census Bureau's figures show an overall decline in Americans' mobility. It said that about 16.7 percent of the population changed residences during a one-year period ending in March 1994, far below the 20 percent that moved in a typical year during the 1950's and 1960's and the second-lowest level of mobility since 1948 when the Census Bureau began tracking such movement. The percentage of people moving from one state to another dropped to 2.6 percent from 3.6 percent. 
 Demographers, sociologists and economists said the aging of the population, the growth in two-income families, the decline in family size and a continuing sense of financial insecurity all contributed to the trend.
"People are becoming more stable," said Kristin A. Hansen, a demographer with the Census Bureau who produced the study.
While Americans still move with much more frequency that people in Western Europe or Japan, the Census Bureau reported that the proportion of people moving has declined significantly since it hit a post-war high of 20.7 percent in 1964-65. After a brief spurt of wanderlust in 1984-85 when 20.2 percent of the population moved mainly because of improving economic conditions, the sedentary trend resumed and has continued unabated.
And with it, some experts say, the era of the great midcentury migrations -- that of Southern blacks moving to the North and the rise of the Sunbelt -- may have ended. In its place, some political scientists theorize, is a sense that there is no place left to go to seek a better life.
"That could have something to do with the current political mood," said Walter D. Burnham, a professor of government at the University of Texas. "We have always been a country based on optimism and new frontiers. This seems like a different world; one that looks more like a frozen river than a fluid stream."
A demographer with the Census Bureau, Larry Long, said, "In spite of what John Steinbeck wrote, the fact is good times generate lots of migration and bad times cause people to stay where they are and hold on to what they've got."
Some sociologists attribute the decline to the increase in the number of two-earner families. With more married women working and with two incomes increasingly needed to cope financially, pulling up stakes becomes more complicated.
"It's harder to get two jobs elsewhere than one," said Peter A. Rogerson, a professor of geography at the State University of New York at Buffalo. "If you break down the mobility rates you find that the rates for single people have gone up slightly. It's the significant downturn among married people that explains it."
But some experts say the decline in mobility is a natural consequence of the aging of the American population. Moving rates tend to decline with age. Indeed, the report indicates that 35.6 percent of people aged 20 to 24 years old and 30.7 percent of those 25 to 29 years old changed their residence during the period in question -- the highest rates of any age group.
With the elderly -- a rather sedentary group -- making up a higher proportion of the population and with the Baby Boom generation sliding into middle age, the proportion of the people in their more mobile years is relatively low.
"The least mobile group in the society is middle-age people," said Steve Murdock, a sociology professor at Texas A&M University. "If you look at our age structure you find that the Baby Boomers born between 1946 and 1964 make up a third of the U.S. population. They are moving increasingly into ages where there is less mobility."
The report, titled "Geographic Mobility: March 1993 to March 1994," estimates that 6.7 million people moved to a different state, 8.2 million people moved to a different area in the same state and 1.2 million moved to the United States from abroad from March 1993 to March 1994.
According to the report, the biggest drop in mobility was among people who moved within the same county. The proportion fell to 10.4 percent of the population in 1993-94 from the post-World War II high of 13.9 percent in 1950-51.
Some demographers attribute this decline to a high proportion of Baby Boomers having already had children and having "traded up" to larger houses.
The report indicated that people who live in the Northeast are most sedentary, with only 11.7 percent of the population having moved. By contrast, 20.2 percent of the people in the West and 18.1 percent of those living in the South moved.
The Northeast is the only region in the country experiencing net out-migration. More people continue to move to the South, the Midwest and the West than leave those regions.
According to the report, whites have lower overall rates of moving than either blacks or Hispanics. The Census Bureau estimated that 16 percent of whites moved in 1993-94, compared with 19.6 percent of blacks and 22.4 percent of non-white Hispanics.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Staying Put" tracks percentage of people who moved to a different house within the United States each year. Figures also include people who moved from abroad. People who moved to a different state are shown as a portion of all movers. Graph represents figures for 1971, 1976 and the years running from 1981 through 1994. (Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU WESTERN EUROPE (51%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; POPULATION SHIFTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CENSUS (95%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); TRENDS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); FAMILY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); AGING TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); GEOGRAPHY (68%); MARRIAGE (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



231 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Reaches an 8-Month High Against Yen in Asian Trading

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose to an eight-month high against the Japanese yen in Asian trading today on expectations that the Bank of Japan would intervene again in the foreign-exchange markets to support the American currency.
Lower Japanese interest rates also helped weaken the yen against other leading currencies like the German mark by making yen-denominated deposits less attractive. 
 In Tokyo today, the dollar traded as high as 100.53 yen, its highest level since Jan. 9. By midday, it was quoted at 100.47 yen. In New York yesterday, the dollar ended at 99.96 yen, up from 99.65 yen on Friday.
The dollar has strengthened since the Bank of Japan early on Friday cut its discount rate to a historic low of 0.5 percent from 1 percent and then bought billions of dollars to bolster the American currency. The dollar then rose to more than 100 yen early on Friday for the first time since January before retreating.
"Friday's discount-rate cut and the intervention are gradually showing their effect," said Takuji Ohmi, a trader at Mitsubishi Bank.
The Japanese Government is pursuing policies to weaken the yen and strengthen the dollar to stimulate the country's stagnant economy through increased exports. A weaker yen makes Japanese goods more attractive to foreign buyers.
 Traders said that if the world's big central banks acted to coordinate dollar purchases, the American currency will rise.
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin released a statement soon after the Bank of Japan cut the discount rate on Friday and said the Group of Seven big industrial democracies s would continue to closely cooperate in the currency markets.
Traders' conviction that central banks want to push the dollar higher was reinforced yesterday when the Bundesbank's president, Hans Tietmeyer, said the currency was "moving in the right direction."
Still, the dollar's rise against the mark is slow after a German Government report showed unexpected economic growth.
In New York late yesterday, the dollar stood at 1.4739 marks, down from 1.4760 on Friday. At midday in Tokyo today, it rose to 1.4755 marks.
The mark also soared to its highest level in more than two years against the yen today and also gained on other major European currencies.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; JAPAN (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (95%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); 

PERSON: ROBERT M RUBIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



232 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturers See Profits Slip

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
Manufacturing companies saw their sales and profits dip moderately in the spring quarter, the Commerce Department said today.
A quarterly survey of 9,200 companies showed that profits slipped in the second quarter to a seasonally adjusted 6 cents for a dollar of sales from a revised 6.2 cents in the first quarter of the year. Previously, the department estimated profits in the first quarter at 6.1 cents for each sales dollar. 
 That was consistent with other broad measures of economic activity that showed a sharp slowdown in the pace of the expansion in the second quarter. The economy is forecast to grow at a stronger, though still modest, rate in the current quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MANUFACTURING COS (61%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



233 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Recession Seen as Unlikely in '95 or '96

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
The economy has reached the long-discussed "soft landing," with no recession in sight, top analysts believe.
The consensus of the latest surveys by the National Association of Business Economists and the newsletter Blue Chip Economic Indicators is that the economy will grow by 2.9 percent this year and by 2.4 percent in 1996. 
 "Out of 49 respondents, only one anticipates that a recession will begin this year," the business economists said in releasing their survey results today. "Three more expect the next recession to begin sometime in 1996."
None of the 52 forecasters in the Blue Chip survey saw a recession coming in either year.
The term "soft landing" is often used to describe an economy slowing sufficiently to keep inflation in check, but not stalling into a recession.
That was the Federal Reserve's goal when it raised short-term interest rates seven times in 15 months through February 1995. But after the economy slowed almost to a stop last spring, and without any serious inflationary pressures in sight, the central bank lowered rates in July.
The business economists conducted their survey in August. The results were released at the association's annual meeting in San Francisco and made available here. The poll by Blue Chip, which is based in Sedona, Ariz., was taken in September.
The two polls produced identical predictions for inflation: 3 percent this year and 3.2 percent in 1996. The Consumer Price Index rose 2.7 percent in 1994.
They also included similar expectations of unemployment prospects. The business economists' consensus was that the jobless rate would fall to an average of 5.7 percent this year from 6.1 percent in 1994, before edging up to 5.9 percent next year.
The prediction in the Blue Chip survey was for unemployment of 5.7 percent this year and 5.8 percent in 1996.
The business economists' prediction for economic growth this year, 2.9 percent, would be a weaker reading than the 3.2 percent estimate in the association's previous survey, in May. But the latest forecast for 1996 indicated stronger growth than the earlier forecast of 2.2 percent.
Growth slowed from a 5.1 percent annual rate in the final quarter of 1994 to 2.7 percent in the first quarter of 1995 and 1.1 percent in the second.
The growth rate for April through June was the slowest since the economy expanded at a one-tenth of 1 percent rate in the final three months of 1991. The business economists' group predicted it would be the weakest of the year.
Contributing to economic growth this year will be business investment in new plants and equipment, which the business economists predicted would rise by 14.3 percent, and consumer spending, which they saw rising by 2.7 percent.
But the forecasters expected other economic factors, including residential expenditures, government spending and net exports, to decline.
The business economists saw a different growth composition for next year.
The association projected that growth in businesses' fixed investments, at 5.6 percent, would drop into single digits for the first time since 1992. "Growth in consumption will again about match the performance of the overall economy," at 2.3 percent, the group said.
"Modest gains, rather than declines, will be posted by residential investment," at seven-tenths of 1 percent, and by government purchases, at four-tenths of 1 percent, the business economists said, while net exports will rebound strongly, they added.
Finally, the economists predicted that businesses would continue to trim their inventories through much of 1996, paring $9 billion worth of goods.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEDONA, AZ, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BUSINESS ECONOMISTS; BLUE CHIP ECONOMIC INDICATORS (NEWSLETTER) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BUSINESS ECONOMISTS; BLUE CHIP ECONOMIC INDICATORS (NEWSLETTER)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEDONA, AZ, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



234 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Securities Lower Ahead of Economic Reports

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Treasury securities ended slightly lower yesterday in light trading, with traders hesitant to take positions ahead of several important economic reports due this week.
"There's a lot of reports out later this week and today is data free," said Lee Youngdahl, vice president at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company. "There just aren't too many reasons to make any decisions today."
The result was a dull session, characterized by lackluster trading and very little price action.
"There's really no justification for a large move in either direction," said Waldo Best, an economist on the trading floor of Barclays de Zoete Wedd Securities.
The data due this week include reports on producer and consumer prices, retail sales and capacity utilization and industrial production.
While investors expect little or no increase in inflation for August, some analysts said there was concern that retail sales and industrial production would show accelerating economic growth and could cause the market to sell off. Fixed-income investors fear strong growth could lead to inflation and erode the value of their holdings.
But ahead of the reports, prices started out weak and then barely moved all day.
In early afternoon, Robert Parry, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, suggested that the Fed was unlikely to lower short-term interest rates again this year. The comments weighed on prices, but were not enough to break them out of the narrow range they established early in the session.
"The Parry comments were kind of as expected," said Ted Ake, a senior trader of government securities at Kemper Securities in Chicago.
The Treasury's 30-year Treasury bond closed 2/32 lower at 10325/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 6.58 percent, from 6.57 percent on Friday.
Prices of other maturities were nearly flat. The yield on the five-year note slipped to 6.01 percent from 6.02 percent, while the yield on the 10-year note was unchanged at 6.21 percent.
In the municipal bond market, prices were steady yesterday.
In the primary market, Connecticut is set to price a $325 million special-tax-obligation issue through Merrill Lynch & Company as lead manager today. Yesterday marked the end of a retail order period during which 20-year bonds were marketed to those investors at a top yield of 5.80 percent.
Also, Ohio is scheduled to sell two deals totaling $115 million today, while Wisconsin is expected to sell $105 million of revenue bonds tomorrow.
"I think they'll do well," a trader said. "There's plenty of money and not a lot of issuance."
The corporate bond market was also quiet yesterday. There was little secondary trading even for those issues in the news. Neither the Witco Corporation nor debt traded after the companies said they would merge in a deal that includes an additional $276 million in long-term debt and $486 million in equity.
In new issues, the Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation issued $250 million of notes split evenly between 9-year and 30-year notes, said the lead manager, Lehman Brothers. The nine-year notes have a 6.87 percent coupon and are priced at par to yield 64 basis points over comparable Treasury securities. The 30-year notes have a 7.58 percent coupon and are priced at 99.905 to yield 7.588 percent. Both issues are noncallable for life and are rated A3/BBB-plus.
The following are the results of the Treasury's regular weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.650	97.305	Discounted Rate	5.34%	5.33%	Coupon Yield	5.50%	5.57%	High Price	98.655	97.316	Discounted Rate	5.32%	5.31%	Coupon Yield	5.48%	5.55%	Low Price	98.650	97.305	Discounted Rate	5.34%	5.33%	Coupon Yield	5.50%	5.57%	Accepted at low price	52%	23%	Total applied for	$51,914,259	$47,409,989	Accepted	$12,130,837	$12,198,935	Noncompetitive	$1,312,953	$1,137,774	
 
Both issues are dated Sept. 14, 1995. The three-monthbills mature on Dec. 14, 1995, and the six-month bills mature on March 14, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows their average discounted rate from 5/95 to 9/95 (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (83%); MER (NYSE) (83%); 8675 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (67%); WITCO CORP (60%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (57%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); RETAIL SALES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT T PARRY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



235 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Women Less Optimistic About Work, Poll Says

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
When it comes to the world of work, the mood of America's women appears to have taken a pessimistic turn. They believe overwhelmingly that while women are better off than they used to be, they continue to face restrictions and discrimination, according to a new poll to be made public today.
Of the 3,000 women polled, 84 percent agreed that "regardless of changes that may have occurred, women still face more restrictions in life than men do." A total of 77 percent said that sexual discrimination, although more subtle and less open than it used to be, "remains a serious problem." 
 And 76 percent said that there was a lot or some sexual harassment in the workplace.
Even though those results suggest that women believe there is room for improvement, the poll also shows that women do not have as much hope as they once had. Only 56 percent see the role of women as continuing to change, down from 73 percent in 1990.
Men agreed. Of 1,000 polled, 57 percent believe women's roles will keep changing, down from 76 percent in 1990.
Sheila Wellington, the president of Catalyst, a nonprofit women's research and advocacy group, said she was not entirely surprised by those results. "Women believe, and Catalyst believes, that there is much that remains to be done before the workplace is prepared to take advantage of the talent women have to offer," she said.
But realism seems to have set in. "There was a kind of buoyant optimism 10 years ago and certainly 20 years ago," Ms. Wellington said. "But I don't think this means that women will leave the work force. It does mean that they well be very careful about where they choose to work and how they choose to work."
The poll, which is done every five years, was conducted by Roper Starch Worldwide Inc. for the Virginia Slims brand of Philip Morris USA.
The poll shows that women believe that several factors keep them back, ranging from an old boys' network to the lack of role models.
Those feelings, coupled with the stress of balancing work and family, are taking a toll on how women feel about their jobs. Only 31 percent said that aside from money they got "great personal satisfaction" from their jobs, compared with 37 percent in 1990.
Men, however, are more satisfied with their work life now, with 40 percent getting great satisfaction in 1995, compared with 35 percent in 1990.
To make their jobs more satisfying, 58 percent of the women and 59 percent of the men polled cited incentive or bonus-pay programs to reward higher productivity; 53 percent of the women and 51 percent of the men cited better health benefits as a means to greater job satisfaction. In virtually equal numbers -- about 45 percent in each case -- both sexes also wanted more feedback from their bosses and more rewarding responsibilities.
More women than men -- 38 percent versus 27 percent -- wanted more opportunity to work at home. And 32 percent of the women and 31 percent of the men wanted company-run, on-site day care for their children.
The poll indicates that women work because they must: 73 percent said they worked to support their families or themselves, compared with 55 percent in 1990 and 46 percent in 1980. Only 23 percent said they worked to bring in extra money, down from 32 percent in 1990 and 43 percent in 1980.
The poll, which has a margin of error of plus or minus two percentage points, also asked some questions about women's personal lives.
But the area in which women most desired change was the workplace. When shown a list of items and asked whether major change, some change or no real change was needed, 94 percent of women said that major change or some change was needed in the salaries paid to women; 87 percent believed that women needed more opportunities for leadership positions.
By contrast, 73 percent -- the smallest proportion -- saw the need for major or some change in their role as homemakers.
"Women thought it would take less time to see progress at the top of corporations than it has," said Adele Scheele, a career strategist hired by Philip Morris to interpret the study. "They've been welcomed in, but the rewards, both financial and psychic, are lagging. If corporations want to keep women, they must promise to take them more seriously and make them more visible."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "What's Holding Women Back?" lists major reasons cited in a 1995 opionion poll on why women are held back
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GFK (FRA) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (82%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (82%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ROPER STARCH WORLDWIDE; PHILIP MORRIS COS INC GFK AG (82%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROPER STARCH WORLDWIDE; PHILIP MORRIS COS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PUBLIC OPINION; WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; HIRING AND PROMOTION POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); WOMEN (90%); MEN (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); WORKPLACE STRESS (73%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (69%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H; SCHEELE, ADELE

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



236 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Blinded by Science? Labor Talks on Move

BYLINE: By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
The so-called labor negotiations have turned into a roadshow: Have law degree, will travel.
For several weeks, small groups of lawyers for the owners and the players have traveled to Pittsburgh, Detroit, New York and Milwaukee (twice) for meetings and have emerged, both sides agree, with better chemistry than negotiators had during the players' eight-month strike. 
 From their undergraduate days, though, these lawyers know that chemistry and economics are different subjects; they might even have avoided taking chemistry. In other words, the better negotiating through chemistry they supposedly have achieved doesn't mean their era of good feeling will translate into an agreement on the economics of the game.
When the owners emerged from their quarterly meetings in Minneapolis in June, they said the most important thing they had to do was get an agreement with the players. They had made the same exact statement coming out of a meeting in May.
The owners are holding their latest quarterly meetings in Detroit this week, and they still haven't achieved their stated No. 1 priority.
All sorts of different and confusing messages are coming from the management side of this ongoing dispute:
*The hard-line owners, led by Jerry Reinsdorf, remain in charge and won't allow an agreement until the players are sufficiently punished for costing the owners hundreds of millions of dollars with their strike, or at least until they have sent Donald Fehr, their leader, into exile.
*While the number of owners who can be classified for public consumption as moderates hasn't grown, enough owners have grown weary of the ongoing dispute that if they were presented with a "realistic plan," enough would vote for it so that the Reinsdorf group wouldn't be able to block it.
*Bud Selig, the acting commissioner of baseball who rules by consensus, can't get a consensus on what the owners want in a deal with the players.
*Owners, one management person said, are lying to each other to create or deepen antagonism for the union, or at least for Fehr, who has been made out to be the bogeyman.
*Owners are fighting among themselves over the economic state of their game and the inability to improve it through an agreement with the players.
Although the owners apparently often have heated exchanges at their meetings, one in particular stood out at the Minneapolis meeting. At least it stood out enough that people have talked about it outside the meeting room.
The antagonists were the ubiquitous Reinsdorf and John Moores, the San Diego Padres' new owner. Moores, according to people who were there, made some comments suggesting that the owners had contributed to their own economic problems by doing dumb things.
Reinsdorf answered him by saying that it seemed like the smartest guy in baseball is the guy who just got in, but after a while, he becomes dumb "like the rest of us."
Immediately after the meeting, Larry Lucchino, who used to be chief executive officer of the Baltimore Orioles but now holds that position with the Padres, rushed over to Reinsdorf and told him he thought what the White Sox owner had issued was a cheap shot.
No ill feeling carried over outside the room, but the White Sox and the Padres clearly are at different ends of the stick that measures militancy and moderation. Reinsdorf's and Selig's protestations to the contrary, people in and out of management believe Reinsdorf holds the whip on the owners' side.
One high-level management person believes Reinsdorf, feeling neither side will inflict a work stoppage next year, prefers the status quo. Clubs will be in such poor financial condition this winter that they won't be able to spend gobs of money on free agents.
With so many players without jobs, they will turn on Fehr for having led them down the unemployment path and banish him to baseball's Elba. Thus satisfied, Reinsdorf will permit a deal to be made.
Reinsdorf scoffed at the suggestion that he doesn't want a deal now. "I want a deal," he said yesterday, "but I want a deal that solves the problems the industry has."
The problem is the sides continue to disagree over the severity of those problems and how to deal with them.
The players' group of lawyers apparently presented an idea at a recent meeting that centered on how players would contribute money annually to a revenue pool, but the owners' lawyers wanted nothing to do with the plan. The owners still want a method -- payroll cap or luxury tax -- that will force clubs to curtail their free-spending ways.
The sides will enter the off season without an agreement. Although the players won't be on strike, people who want to spend money on baseball still will face uncertainty -- fans who want to buy tickets, companies that want to buy commercial time on radio broadcasts and telecasts, networks that want to spend hundreds of millions of dollars for television rights.
It will take a far more polished song-and-dance routine to induce those potential big spenders to take the money out of their pockets than the one the touring troupe of attorneys has been allowed to present.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (88%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (88%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; LABOR LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); LAWYERS (78%); STRIKES (78%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY JERRY REINSDORF (94%); DONALD FEHR (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



237 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Giants Tighten Their Hold on U.S.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Companies Merge; Families Break Up" (Op-Ed, Sept. 3), Lester C. Thurow's analysis of the massive income shifts in the American economy neglects a major consequence of this redistribution of wealth: the parallel accretion of political power at all levels of government to the oligopolistic megacorporations now dominating the economy. 
 The resulting de facto suspension of antitrust enforcement, and weakening of regulatory oversight, has worked to remove most restraints on corporate monopolistic practices, thus cementing the economic gains the dominant corporations have achieved at the expense of the general population. The lobbying frenzy now going on in Congress is just one example of this development.
The present period resembles uncomfortably closely the Roaring Twenties, with a stock market driven by speculation and profits achieved at the expense of workers. It is said history never repeats itself, but the continuing maldistribution of the national product bids fair to lead to the massive underconsumption that triggered the Depression.
The prosperity of the past 50 years was founded on the progressive income tax, redistribution downward of the national product and curbing of excessive profits. The problems Mr. Thurow addresses arise from our abandonment of those policies.
 
RICHARD HYSE
Oswego, N.Y., Sept. 5, 1995
The writer is professor emeritus of economics at SUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; LABOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); LOBBYING (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICS (71%); MONOPOLIZATION (71%); INCOME TAX (68%); 

PERSON: HYSE, RICHARD LESTER C THUROW (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



238 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Giants Tighten Their Hold on U.S.;
Homemaker Nostalgia

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Companies Merge; Families Break Up" (Op-Ed, Sept. 3): Lester C. Thurow correctly points out that the decline in men's wages is a major cause of family change. But he implies that the answer to family break-up and child neglect is to shore up male wages and restore the "traditional" family. While better jobs for all is a desirable goal, returning to a system of male breadwinning is an unworkable and, for many families, undesirable solution. 
 The breadwinner-homemaker household is a recent and short-lived arrangement that, even at its height in the 1950's, never met the needs of countless women, men and children. Now that women have genuine alternatives, they are not likely to leave the workplace, no matter how much men are paid. And there is little reason to believe that higher male wages will induce unhappily married couples to stay together.
Yet there are policies to lighten the burden of parents and improve the lives of children. First, give women equal economic opportunities so they can support a family with or without a male breadwinner.
Create family-friendly workplaces that allow fathers as well as mothers to participate in childrearing without penalty. Since employers no longer subsidize an unpaid caretaker at home, they have a new obligation to help employed women and men meet family responsibilities.
 
KATHLEEN GERSON
Professor of Sociology, N.Y.U.
New York, Sept. 3, 1995

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; LABOR; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE WAGES & SALARIES (91%); FAMILY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); WOMEN (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MARRIAGE (73%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); 

PERSON: GERSON, KATHLEEN

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



239 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Giants Tighten Their Hold on U.S.;
Decay of Family Unit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Lester C. Thurow (Op-Ed, Sept. 3) identifies wage stagnation in the United States economy as the principal cause of family breakup and paternal abandonment. Numerous elected officials, from President Clinton to Richard Gephardt, the House minority leader, also cite economic anxiety due to wage stagnation as the underlying cause of family fragmentation. Yet little evidence exists to support this thesis. 
 The United States has the highest divorce rate in the world, with more than half of all marriages today likely to end in divorce. Never-married mothers account for more than 30 percent of all childbirths. Tonight, about 40 percent of all American children will go to sleep in homes where their fathers do not live.
Is it reasonable to suppose, as Mr. Thurow and others suggest, that this historically unprecedented collapse of the mother-father child-raising unit can be explained by the fact that the median real wage for male workers has fallen from $34,084 in 1973 to $30,407 in 1993?
Cultural problems almost always require cultural explanations. Yes, economics matters. But as regards decaying family structure, our personal and cultural values -- what we believe about sexuality, procreation and marriage -- matter far more.
When confronted with behavioral trends that are undesirable, liberals often seek to blame the economy. Conservatives often seek to blame big government. Both explanations are partly right, but mostly wrong.
 
DAVID BLANKENHORN
President, Inst. for American Values
New York, Sept. 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; LABOR; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE FAMILY (91%); MARRIAGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MEN (77%); CHILDREN (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (71%); 

PERSON: BLANKENHORN, DAVID BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



240 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
Between Love and Money, A City Chooses Gambling

BYLINE: By Evelyn Nieves 

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y.

 BODY:
YOU won't hear locals call Niagara Falls "the World's Honeymoon Capital" anymore. The ads for heart-shaped tubs on Motel Strip are quaint reminders of the old days, when the "No" in the vacancy signs were always lit. Even the souvenir shops have pulled postcards with wedding themes off the racks.
Not that couples no longer visit. They do; but few stay. And the same is true of families and bus tours. Hotels have already started laying off workers for the winter. There is little chance they will be needed. While more than eight million people poured into town last year, even at the height of the tourist season, the average visit was little more than a day. 
 Hotel and other business owners say that as far as attractions go, the breathtaking spectacle of one of the world's great natural wonders just isn't enough. They have been asking the same thing tourists ask: What more is there? About five minutes from the falls stands the city's downtown, and it is not pretty. There are some offices, several empty stores, one tattoo parlor, little else. "There is really nothing, nothing at all," said Sylvia Virtuoso, who owns an upholstery shop and is the president of a local merchants association.
SMALL wonder then, that Niagara Falls is hoping to open a casino to bring in more tourists and keep them. Bridgeport, Detroit, the Catskills -- you can draw a road map of the most desperate cities and resort areas in the country by tracking plans for casinos, the same way plans for convention centers pinpointed downtrodden downtowns 20 years ago.
No one wants to think about whether there are enough gambling tourists to go around. Business people here point out, rather defensively, that Niagara Falls started talking about the idea of casinos in the late 70's, before a lot of Johnny-come-lately towns. "We went through all the same things we're going through now -- the referendums, the debate," said Ms. Virtuoso, a member of the Niagara Falls Coalition for Casino Gambling. The plan died a slow death, and was resuscitated a few years ago.
But while that idea came and went and returned, the city cannot say the same for a full-scale plan to transform downtown Niagara Falls with trendy boutiques and restaurants. It has never happened. "We missed the boat," Ms. Virtuoso said.
A few years ago, the city did get started on a major tourist attraction, the Falls Street Fair and Station, which was to have boutiques and amusement park-style attractions. The developer went bankrupt and the building stands dormant.
Voters here overwhelmingly approved a casino in a referendum last year. And when a gambling bill passed the State Legislature in June that would legalize gambling in Niagara Falls, the Catskills and several other regions, the idea picked up more momentum. Even though the Legislature must pass the bill again in 1997, then put it up for statewide and local referendums, people are already saying that a casino would recharge Niagara Falls in no time.
"The view here seems to be that people are for it," said Charles Steiner, president of the Niagara Falls Area Chamber of Commerce. "as long as it's done right."
People opposed to gaming tend to be quiet about it. Not so the Mayor, Jacob A. Palillo, a first-term Republican facing a hot primary fight today. Mr. Palillo, a retired firefighter, has been critical of gambling. His challenger, Barbara Ann Geracitano, is all for it and proud to say so.
"We're in a crisis situation here," said Ms. Geracitano, a councilwoman who owns Barbara Ann's Beauty Salon. "You see what we have in downtown Niagara -- absolutely nothing. Tourists come who have no idea that the heart of downtown is a ghost town."
FOR a lot of tourists, the answer is to cross the Rainbow Bridge to Canada. It's standard wisdom among tourists that the Canadian side of Niagara Falls has the best view, not to mention the House of Frankenstein, the Castle of Dracula, Ripley's Believe it or Not and a strip that smells like cotton candy and butter-flavored popcorn.
Niagara Falls, Ontario gets up to 12 million tourists a year, a third more than Niagara Falls, New York. It shows. The streets are packed and parking lots as far as a half mile from the look-out points are full. Many of the handsome bed and breakfast inns on a hill just above the falls are sold out.
Of course, Canada plans a casino for Niagara Falls, too.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 1995, Friday

 CORRECTION:
The Our Towns column on Sept. 12, about interest in opening a casino in Niagara Falls, N.Y., included an erroneous reference to a 1994 referendum on casino gambling. It was held in Niagara Falls, Ontario, not Niagara Falls, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A drawing of a couple honeymooning at Niagara Falls in the 1880's. (Culver Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: STATE LEGISLATURE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NIAGARA FALLS (NY); NEW YORK STATE; ; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; REFERENDUMS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CASINOS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); TOURISM (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); GAMING (89%); REFERENDUMS (85%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (77%); TRENDS (73%); TATTOO PARLORS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); LEGISLATION (61%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); APPROVALS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN SYLVIA VIRTUOSO (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995



241 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: District Battles Home-Rule Erosion

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
As Congress prepares this week to appropriate its annual Federal payment to the District of Columbia, city officials are campaigning to minimize the number of strings attached.
With the city struggling to emerge from a financial crisis that prompted President Clinton to appoint a financial control board in the spring, Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. and other leaders have been urging lawmakers to approve the payment, of $660 million, without restrictions that would reduce local officials' power under the limited autonomy that Congress granted more than 20 years ago. 
 But Mr. Barry and other municipal leaders acknowledge that some restraints may be unavoidable. "I think we'll have some of them," the Mayor said in a brief interview today.
The payment is an annual subsidy that compensates the District for the property-tax exemption granted Government buildings, foreign embassies and nonprofit organizations. The city has been lobbying to blunt restrictions on that money as a way of preventing further erosion of home rule.
Mr. Barry, for instance, used an appearance today before the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on the District of Columbia to urge the chairman, James M. Jeffords of Vermont, not to strip the school board's authority to appoint the school superintendent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. of Washington, before appearing yesterday at a hearing of a Senate subcommittee. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (64%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (64%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (64%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: BARRY, MARION (MAYOR) BILL CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



242 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Luxuries They Can't Afford

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 12

 BODY:
The scene at the sprawling Mercedes-Benz factory in Sindelfingen, where the auto maker assembles its popular E-class model, is bedeviled by sloth and confusion, at odds with the popular image of Teutonic efficiency.
The five-story building, built in 1916, is loud and dimly lit, peppered with numerous half-built cars pushed to one side. Many workers stand idle, either with nothing to do or waiting for a car to reach their station. Activity has ground to a halt in large areas, like the dashboard-assembly section, because too much stock has piled up. Unlike modern plants in Japan or the United States, where cars follow a single line after they leave the paint shop, here they are machine-hoisted back and forth as many as 46 times between lines. 
 Things are better at BMW's 3-series plant in Regensburg in Bavaria, but are still a far cry from the lean and disciplined approach pioneered by the Japanese. Workers pause to knock back beer that they have bought from one of several vending machines on the factory floor. They attach bumpers from a selection of more than 400 styles, install 280 varieties of rear-seat shelves and apply almost any color paint customers can dream up. They also make all the dashboards themselves. The company boasts that all these choices make every model unique, but analysts say the extra costs are a drag on profits.
On top of it all, the workers are among the most pampered in the world, working short hours, earning twice as much as most of their European counterparts and getting 10 weeks of paid holiday every year. Small wonder, then, that the German auto industry is finally saying "Enough."
For a time, Germany's booming economy masked these excesses. But growth has slowed, and now German auto makers are recognizing that they do not know all they should about mass-producing competitively priced cars. As a result, they are taking drastic action to meet the challenge of Japanese and American competition: They are fleeing Germany's high-cost structure and opening new plants abroad, and they are re-engineering existing operations at home to make them more efficient.
Nearly every new car that Mercedes, a unit of Daimler-Benz A.G., is developing will be made outside Germany: its mini "Swatch" line in France, its mini-van in Spain and its four-wheel drive sports vehicle in Alabama. BMW opened a plant in Spartanburg, S.C., last year, Volkswagen A.G. is considering building its new Beetle in Mexico and Adam Opel, the West German unit of the General Motors Corporation, is expanding in Belgium, Britain, Poland and Hungary.
In the last four years, the German auto industry has slashed its work force by 160,000 jobs to the current 630,000. And there is more to come: analysts say Volkswagen needs to eliminate 30,000 workers over the next several years.
"I don't see a new auto plant being built in Germany for the foreseeable future," said Kunibert Schmidt, general secretary of the Association of German Auto Makers, the main industry group.
It isn't just the car industry that is moving production to lower-cost countries. Siemens A.G., the industrial-products giant, is building a semiconductor plant in Britain. Bayer A.G. and Hoechst A.G., the drug makers, are building plants in Texas and China, respectively. Other big German multinational corporations have set up operations in Brazil, China and even Japan.
But because of its vast size, the auto industry represents the direction of Germany's industrial base. As its exodus continues, more Germans are growing alarmed at the loss of jobs, openly calling for change. And they are getting some.
Most significantly, perhaps, cracks are appearing in labor's hard stand against concessions aimed at raising productivity. Just today, Volkswagen won more flexibility from its workers in a labor agreement that traded pay increases and job guarantees for a change in work rules that would lengthen the workweek to as much as 38.8 hours without incurring overtime costs. In the past, VW workers worked as few as 29 hours a week.
Earlier this month, Opel won similar concessions from the union. And at Regensburg, BMW negotiated an agreement with unions that allows the company to run an entire Saturday shift without paying overtime. The agreement also lets it operate its plant for 99 hours a week, with two shifts of workers, far higher than the typical German workweek.
German auto makers are doing more than just wringing concessions from labor. They are also redesigning cars and adopting Japanese-style production techniques to reduce costs.
BMW, for example, uses a certain amount of just-in-time delivery of parts, like seats, carpeting and engines, to hold inventories down. At Sindelfingen, about 100 miles south of Frankfurt, Mercedes has spent almost $200 million on new stamping equipment. It also takes delivery of its seats from suppliers only hours before they go into the cars, and it is reducing the number of parts it makes for its cars.
Opel recently hired a senior production specialist away from the Toyota Motor Corporation. And Volkswagen is reducing the number of chassis that it produces across its four operating companies -- VW, Audi, Skoda in Eastern Europe and SEAT in Spain -- from 16 to four.
In addition, German car companies are shopping more aggressively outside their country for cheaper parts, notably in the weak-currency countries of Italy, Spain and France. The trend started at Volkswagen, where Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua, who had been hired away from General Motors and was later accused of stealing G.M.'s secrets, clamped down on the prices Volkswagen paid suppliers.
In essence, Germany is waking up to a problem that it had ignored for too long, experts say: Its high wages, generous benefits and rigid workplace procedures were pricing its products out of world markets, even as the Japanese and the Americans were racing to increase productivity and hold costs down.
German auto workers are the highest paid in the world, typically costing an auto maker $38.50 an hour, almost twice the cost in France, at $20 an hour, and more than twice the cost in Britain, Italy and Spain. German auto wages are more than 40 percent higher than in the United States, and American factories also tend to be much more efficient.
A recent study by the Economist Intelligence Unit of London found that Volkswagen's main plant in Wolfsburg, Germany, produced an average of 23.6 cars an employee a year, while the Ford Motor Company's Wayne, Mich., plant produced 58.8 Ford Escorts. Toyota's Takaoka plant, which makes Corollas, Tercels and Paseos, produces an astonishing 133.6 cars an employee annually.
The turning point began in the early 1990's, when the German economy went into a deep recession and Japan's new luxury cars, particularly Toyota's Lexus and the Nissan Motor Company's Infiniti, hit world markets.
"Lexus was a profound shock," said Daniel T. Jones, a professor at the Cardiff Business School at the University of Wales. "It was just as good as a Mercedes but much lower priced. Mercedes found they were spending more time fixing their cars after they came off the assembly line than Toyota took in making the Lexus."
At that point, Mr. Jones added, "the German honeymoon of being able to make an ever-more sophisticated car without paying attention to price came to an end. They realized how disastrously inefficient they were and it triggered a real movement to learn from these lean techniques."
It was a painful process for a generation of corporate leaders raised on the concept that success would result from manufacturing a finely designed, finely engineered product in Germany and exporting it around the world. Even today, German business leaders get defensive about moving operations to foreign soil. One official at Siemens, for example, insisted that a plan to build a semiconductor plant in Britain was an "extension" of the company's production plans, not a relocation.
The transformation of the auto industry is even more emotional for German workers, since it involves a steady decrease in their numbers and a realization that the perquisites they long took for granted -- no Saturday work, few night shifts, six weeks of vacation and nearly a month of holidays, high absenteeism, an ever-shrinking workweek -- are coming to an end.
To be sure, Germany still has much going for it. Its work force is highly skilled and its economy remains the powerhouse of Europe. If its unions grant greater concessions, it could sharpen its competitive edge quickly. And it boasts one auto plant that can claim to be a match for the Japanese: the factory Opel built in the former East German town of Eisenach after the fall of Communism.
A so-called green-field plant, Eisenach borrowed many manufacturing techniques practiced by the General Motors joint venture with Toyota in Fremont, Calif. The plant now makes Opel's minicar, the Corsa.
Unlike the BMW and Mercedes plants, Eisenach is remarkably quiet, with no car bodies sitting off to the side. Managers and workers seem busy and wear the same uniform: clean white shirts and dark pants.
Though Eisenach has been rated as the most efficient plant in Europe, with production of 59.3 cars a worker each year, it is likely to be the last auto plant in Germany for a while.
That doesn't mean, of course, that the German auto industry is writing off German workers. Rather, it intends to pursue a two-track production strategy, according to Jens Neumann, a member of VW's management board and the chairman of its North American operations.
"Simple export thinking is not relevant any more," Mr. Neumann said. "It is very tricky keeping the German manufacturing base and at the same time globalizing. You cannot have the one without the other."


GRAPHIC: The BMW 3-series is the company's least expensive line of cars, retailing for between $20,570 and $41,000. But it is expensive to produce, in part because designers insist on an extravagant number of variations for each model. BMW says each model is different and it makes a return on its investments. By contrast, most other auto makers, including luxury car builders, strive to limit the number of variations to avoid excessive cost and potenital defects.
 
HOOD LENGTHS vary between coup and sedan by about 3 inches.
 
BMW makes 3,500 different kinds of SEATS just for 3-series cars, including variations for material, supports, fabric, adjusters and colors.
 
There are 280 different styles of REAR PARCEL SHELVES, reflecting color, sedan or coupe, headrests, seat belt positions and brake lights for cars shipped to America
 
There are 480 kinds of BUMBERS for 3-series cars.
 
The REAR END AND TAIL LIGHTS differ between the coupe and the sedan. (pg. D1)
 
 
Graph: "Germany's Cost Disadvantage" compares total hourly cost for auto workers, in German marks, in ten industrial nations. Figures are representative of 1980 and 1994. (Source: Association of German Auto Makers) (pg. D1)
 
Map: "German Industry's New Addresses"
Chart: "Exclusive of Needlessly Expensive?"
 The high cost of labor and the growing strength of the German mark have pushed German companies to look outside the country's borders in recent years. Map of world shows international sites of select German industries. (pg. D22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOW (FRA) (84%); VKW (LSE) (84%); DAI (FRA) (63%); DAI (BIT) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (73%); BELGIUM (68%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (84%); DAIMLER AG (63%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (60%); ADAM OPEL AG (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; UNITED STATES; GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (73%); BELGIUM (68%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY; FINANCES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; INDUSTRY PROFILES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); LABOR FORCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



243 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Down Last Month

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
For the third straight month in August, the nation's producers failed to obtain even the slimmest price increase for their finished products, a surprisingly tame Government inflation report showed today.
Particularly impressive, analysts said, were flat or declining prices for goods at earlier stages of production whose surges earlier in the year aroused fears that it was just a matter of time before quickened inflation would ripple all the way through to the consumer. 
 "It's time to file a missing person's report on inflation -- it's nowhere to be found," declared Ron Schreibman, vice president of the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors, whose members' purchases are captured by Labor Department statisticians.
Today's report contributed to a vigorous bond-market rally that gathered strength in the afternoon and pushed 30-year bond yields down to 6.50 percent, the lowest yield since early July. [Page D19.] The rally was fed by the growing belief that the Federal Reserve could make further cuts in short-term rates this autumn, perhaps as early as Sept. 26, when the policy making Open Market Committee meets.
Stock prices followed bonds higher, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 42.27 points, to a record 4,747.21, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index reaching a record 576.51. [Page D12.]
For finished goods -- those ready for sale to the final individual or business user -- prices edged down one-tenth of 1 percent last month as a sizable decline in energy prices more than offset a small rise for other goods. Food prices, meanwhile, were unexpectedly stable following a sharp July jump caused by unusually hot weather in the Midwest that many analysts thought would have a lingering effect.
Prices for finished goods had been unchanged in July and were down one-tenth of 1 percent in June.
"Who could be anything but pleased?" said Rosanne M. Cahn, an economist at CS First Boston, noting especially how far prices of goods at the intermediate stage of production have subsided in the last several months. "The magnitude of the deceleration is very impressive."
Nondurable items such as chemicals used in manufacturing posted their first decline in 18 months and the price of durable factory materials such as hot-rolled steel sheet and strip also fell. Both declines were one-tenth of 1 percent.
As for raw materials, the Labor Department's index for crude goods dropped 1.4 percent following an eight-tenths of 1 percent skid in July.
Despite such broad reassurance that inflation remains benign, Ms. Cahn and other analysts said further rate cuts in September were not assured. "It's definitely good news for the Fed but by itself it's not enough to push them into easing" monetary policy, said Christopher Low, an economist at HSBC Securities in New York.
These analysts said the Fed would also likely want confirmation that the economy needs additional stimulus and would therefore look for signs of weakness in the monthly reports on retail sales and industrial production, which will be released Thursday and Friday, respectively.
When the erratic food and energy components are excluded, finished goods edged up one-tenth of 1 percent last month, matching February for the best performance so far in 1995.
Over all, today's report also showed that finished goods have now climbed 1.3 percent over the latest 12 months, the narrowest year-to-year rise since November.
The price of gasoline, which had dived 10.1 percent in July, fell another 1.9 percent in August; prices for heating oil and residential natural gas also declined. Electric power for the home, however, rose modestly for the fourth straight month. Fresh and dry vegetables, grown largely in the West, dropped 12.7 percent, offsetting upward pressure from rising prices on pork and grain products produced in the Midwest.
Among intermediate goods, increases for foods and feeds and for construction materials were balanced by the declines for factory materials and energy. In addition to the 1.7 percent decline for hot-rolled steel, prices for copper and brass mill shapes, cold-rolled steel, copper and flat glass turned down after rising in July.
On the other hand, prices of hot-rolled steel bars and aluminum turned up.
Crude goods showing sizable price declines included Irish potatoes, which fell 11.8 percent in August, after a 45.5 percent plunge in July; raw cotton, which was off 11.5 percent, and waste paper, down 12.9 percent. Iron and steel scrap, however, climbed 5.9 percent and aluminum base scrap reversed course to rise 3.1 percent, the report showed.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Producer Prices" tracks index of finished goods prices, seasonally adjusted, from May 1994 through August 1995. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON (63%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WHOLESALER-DISTRIBUTORS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WHOLESALER-DISTRIBUTORS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (91%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); WHOLESALERS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ROSANNE M CAHN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



244 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Gore Assails Bill to Revise Telecommunications Laws

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore leveled a blistering attack on legislation to reform the nation's communications laws today, amid signs that the legislation was bogging down in a busy Congress.
Speaking to an audience of telecommunications executives here, Mr. Gore derided the bill passed last month by the House of Representatives as "a contract with 100 companies." 
 "Instead of promoting competition, it promotes mergers and concentration of power," Mr. Gore said. "What individual high rollers and media moguls think of a section of our communications law ought to be less important than what our children think."
The House bill, and a counterpart passed by the Senate in June, would erase six decades of communications regulations and open the telephone and cable television business to free-wheeling competition. But Mr. Gore said the legislation catered to big communications companies at the expense of consumers, who could end up with higher telephone and cable bills.
President Clinton has threatened to veto the legislation, and Mr. Gore reiterated that threat. "The United States ought to be on the leading edge, not the ragged edge, of reform," he said.
White House officials said the Vice President's strong words were calculated to put pressure on Republicans as they prepare to reconcile the House and Senate bills in conference committee.
In particular, these officials said, the Clinton Administration wants Congress to scale back the wholesale deregulation of cable rates in both bills.
But Congressional aides and industry executives said the reconciliation process could be delayed for several weeks as Congress grappled with two other complex and controversial issues: the budget and Medicare.
"The appropriations bill is just really complicated," said Gerald Lowrie, vice president of regulatory affairs at the AT&T Corporation.
Industry executives had hoped that Congress would hammer out a final bill in October and send it to Mr. Clinton soon afterward. But a spokesman for House Speaker Newt Gingrich said the Speaker had not even made plans to appoint members to the conference committee.
A delay in the legislative process does not mean the telecommunications bill is dead, or even in grave jeopardy. White House officials and Republican lawmakers both want to be able to claim during next year's campaigning that they helped to reform the nation's communications laws.
As the election season draws closer, though, the debate between industry giants over issues like cable rates and competition in local phone service is likely to become even more contentious.
Although today's meeting was called the Networked Economy Conference, leaders of the local and long-distance companies seemed anything but linked as they argued about the legislation's merits.
Robert E. Allen, chairman of AT&T, said the bill deserved to be vetoed because it would allow the regional Bell companies into the long-distance business without breaking up their local monopolies. Raymond W. Smith, chairman of the Bell Atlantic Corporation, said the legislation should be signed into law without substantial changes.
For his part, Mr. Gore questioned the commitment of the Republican Congress to genuine telecommunications reform because the Senate recently voted to reduce the budget of the Federal Communications Commission by 20 percent.
Mr. Gore said the Senate's action would strip the F.C.C. of resources at the very time the agency will have to oversee and administer new regulations in every corner of the communications industry.
"This implies that telecommunications reform is either a failure or a fraud," Mr. Gore said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (92%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (92%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS LAW (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); MEDICARE (63%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



245 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: A Classmate Is Arrested In a Murder

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN 

 BODY:
When 25-year-old Christina Jung was found bludgeoned to death in her Fresh Meadows, Queens, apartment, the police at first suspected that the promising young bond trader had been killed by a burglar. After all, they knew of no one who would want to kill her.
But several detectives were not so sure. And yesterday, they announced a surprising twist in the case, saying they had charged one of Ms. Jung's old classmates from the prestigious Stuyvesant High School, Jimmy Ng, in her death. 
 Behind the murder, the police said, was the story of two old classmates who had gone along drastically different paths since leaving high school: Ms. Jung finding success in a fast-moving career at Daiwa Securities, Mr. Ng, 27, apparently floundering to the point where he borrowed $8,000 from her, which he was unable to pay back.
The police said it was a fight over that loan that led Mr. Ng, on the night of April 12, to beat his old classmate to death with a bowling pin. The police said he then tried to make the murder scene look as if a burglary had taken place.
Ms. Jung's body was not discovered until five days after her death, on April 17, when her brother-in-law went to her apartment to look for her; her family and employers had grown concerned because she had not reported to work for several days. Part of the delay in discovering her murder, the police said, was that it occurred the Wednesday before Good Friday, when her office was closed.
The killing plunged into grief a close-knit family whose grandparents came from China a generation ago to find a new life in America. Ms. Jung herself was born in New York City and graduated from Stuyvesant in 1987.
Ms. Jung went on to New York University, where she graduated in 1991 with a degree in finance and then, in 1993, began a career on Wall Street as a trader in government bills for Diawa Securities, the fourth-largest financial corporation in Japan.
At the same time, the police said, Mr. Ng was having much less success in his career pursuits, and ultimately was unemployed.
Some time before Ms. Jung's death, the police said, Mr. Ng approached her with a business proposition, and she agreed to extend him a loan of $8,000. But after months of stalling on repaying the loan, the police said that Mr. Ng, who lived a mile or so away at 67-43 182d Street, went to Ms. Jung's apartment on the night of April 12.
Sgt. Stephen J. Nicastro, the commander of the 107th Precinct detective squad, said that the two began arguing over the debt and that Mr. Ng struck Ms. Jung with a bowling pin she kept in her apartment.
Seeking to find their daughter's killer, Ms. Jung's parents posted a reward of $20,000.
A spring newsletter published by Diawa Securities shortly after her death described the shock it caused at the firm: "In a year of disasters whose scale seemed almost unimaginable, it should probably not be surprising that one small tragedy devastated us with the greatest impact."
Colleagues recalled what they described as "Chris's unforgettable laugh."
Sergeant Nicastro said that detectives pursued several leads after her death, but ultimately uncovered a possible motive -- the $8,000 debt to Ms. Jung. Detectives said that once the investigation made that turn, it ultimately led to Mr. Ng's arrest overnight Monday on the charge of murder.
Sergeant Nicastro declined yesterday to say whether Mr. Ng had provided any statement or whether his fingerprints were found in Ms. Jung's apartment or on the murder weapon.
Nancy Mandell, a spokeswoman for Diawa, said, "Chris was a beautiful, talented and vivacious woman." She said Ms. Jung was widely admired at Diawa as an American of Chinese ancestry who stood out in a Japanese subsidiary that has a relatively conservative reputation.
"Everyone liked her, and her death was a shock to her colleagues here," Ms. Mandell said. "Everyone here is truly relieved they caught her killer. She did not deserve to die for $8,000."
 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 1995

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the slaying of a bond trader, Christina Jung, misidentified her employer. It is Daiwa Securities America Inc., not its parent, Daiwa Securities.
 The article also misstated the ranking of the parent company. It is Japan's second largest securities company, not its fourth-largest financial corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAWA (PAR) (56%); DAI (LSE) (56%); 8601 (TSE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DAIWA SECURITIES GROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS MURDER (91%); BURGLARY (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EASTER SEASON (67%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, RONALD; NG, JIMMY; JUNG, CHRISTIANA CHRISTINA JUNG (97%); JIMMY NG (92%); STEPHEN J NICASTRO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



246 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy Highlights Fine Print on Bosnia

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Despite last week's agreement among the adversaries in Bosnia and an ongoing NATO bombing campaign, the chief American negotiator said today that the most basic issues of power sharing and territory are unresolved and that there is no guarantee any settlement will hold.
In an hourlong interview before flying to the Balkans for a new round of talks, the envoy, Richard C. Holbrooke, sought to dispel the optimism created by the agreement among the Bosnians, Croats and Serbs to create a Serbian republic within Bosnia and to accept the legal existence of the Bosnian state. 
Mr. Holbrooke seemed to be trying to lower expectations for his new mission. But his comments provided the clearest insight yet into the American strategy at the negotiating table, which is based on bringing pressure on each of the parties to make small compromises in private and locking them in in public.
In the interview, Mr. Holbrooke also praised President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, laid out the mine fields on the road to peace in Bosnia and dangled the prospect of billions of dollars in economic aid from the West if a peace is achieved. Indeed, President Clinton began consulting leading members of Congress today about an initial $500 million aid package for a postwar Bosnia.
Compared with his mood last week, when Mr. Holbrooke was showing to friends in Europe an article in the French daily Le Figaro touting him as, "Le Kissinger des Balkans," this week he was signaling that at any moment the process could blow up in his face.
"Nothing is agreed upon until everything is agreed upon," Mr. Holbrooke said. "It's the way the parties avoid committing themselves to individual parts of the agreement. They can all at any time renege on anything they've agreed to."
Specifically, he said, negotiators were unable to work out the relationship between the Bosnian state and the Serbian republic to be contained within it.
"We couldn't get it," he said. "The differences were too great. And who controls the presidency? Who controls foreign policy? Is there a single overarching Parliament? How do you adjudicate issues?"
Even harder, Mr. Holbrooke admitted, are the vast divides among the parties over what the future map of Bosnia will look like, particularly the status of the capital of Sarajevo, which the Serbs want a piece of and which the Bosnian Government insists must remain undivided and under its control.
"It's like Jerusalem," Mr. Holbrooke said. "There's a mystical tie to it and it's the toughest single issue. We have almost completely incompatible positions right now."
Perhaps nothing illustrates the illusory nature of negotiating peace in Bosnia than the case of eastern Slavonia, Mr. Holbrooke said.
On the eve of last Friday's announcement, all three sides had agreed to work toward a peaceful resolution of the status of the oil-rich piece of Croatia captured by the Serbs in 1991.
But then the Croats suggested publicly that their country reserved the right to invade. The Serbs wanted to insert a rebuttal into the statement but bar the Croats from doing the same. The Americans said no. In the end, like so many other peace plans and statements that litter the last 41 months of war, the paper was discarded.
Mr. Holbrooke's praise for Mr. Milosevic underscored the extent to which the United States has tried to transform the image of the Serbian leader from that of a potentially indictable war criminal into that of a peacemaker.
"Milosevic appears to have abandoned -- at least for the time being -- the goal of annexing part of Bosnia," Mr. Holbrooke said. "He doesn't want it. He talks openly about needing peace, economic development and international legitimacy for Serbia and of not wanting to be burdened by the Bosnian Serbs."
Mr. Holbrooke described the Serb leader as a "good English speaker" who boasts about his close ties to prominent American bankers on Wall Street. It is a far different portrayal than one offered in a recent article in Foreign Affairs magazine by Warren Zimmermann, a former American Ambassador to Yugoslavia, who called Mr. Milosevic a habitual liar who condoned and organized "unspeakable atrocities."
Mr. Milosevic's success in persuading the Bosnian Serbs to give him the written authority to negotiate on their behalf was "the breakthrough" in the negotiations, Mr. Holbrooke said. When the Serbian leader presented the American negotiating team with the paper empowering him to negotiate, Mr. Holbrooke said: "All of our hearts skipped a beat. He did in fact deliver."
But just in case Mr. Milosevic is lying, as he has done in the past, Mr. Holbrooke did not rule out the possibility that the Serbian President will break his word and seize the part of Bosnia that makes up the entity of the Serb republic.
"I'm a student of Vietnam," said Mr. Holbrooke, who served there as a young Foreign Service officer, "and I don't forget that Henry Kissinger negotiated an agreement for two Vietnams and in the end it collapsed by force of arms and the North Vietnamese used force to annex the country.
"If you ask me my greatest nightmare, it would be just this."
Mr. Holbrooke insisted that he gave Mr. Milosevic no promises to pardon the Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, and military commander, Ratko Mladic, who have been indicted by an international tribunal as war criminals. "Au contraire, ma chere," he said. "We have made it absolutely clear to Milosevic that the peace negotiations cannot include the war tribunal."
And Mr. Holbrooke acknowledged that Mr. Milosevic does not control the Bosnian Serbs on the battlefield, as evidenced by their refusal to withdraw their heavy weapons from Sarajevo in the face of intense NATO bombing.
As for the Bosnian Government, Mr. Holbrooke praised President Alija Izetbegovic for his statements published on Monday that signaled his willingness to make compromises for peace.
"We did not sell out the Bosnian Muslims," Mr. Holbrooke insisted. "They wanted this agreement. They knew this was a good deal."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERVIEWS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C (ASST SEC); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (90%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



247 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Dow Surges to Reach a High of 4,747.21

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rose sharply yesterday, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average to an all-time high.
The Dow jumped 42.27 points to close at 4,747.21, topping its previous record of 4,736.39 on July 17. 
 Some broader market indicators also gained, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index setting its sixth straight record, rising 2.60 points, to 576.51.
But the Nasdaq composite index, which is weighed with technology stocks, wilted yesterday on profit taking after setting a record on Monday, dropping 1.56 points, to 1,065.00.
The market's rally came in reaction to a buying spree in the bond market, which surged in response to a Government report that producer prices fell one-tenth of 1 percent last month. This news strengthened the feeling of many stock market investors that inflation remained under control and that the Federal Reserve would reduce short-term interest rates in the fall, possibly at the next meeting of its policy-making committee on Sept. 26.
In addition, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta reported a slowdown in manufacturing in the Southeast in August. And retail sales were projected by the Johnson Redbook Service to be on track to advance a seasonally adjusted three-tenths of 1 percent in September.
"Yesterday's numbers indicate the best of all circumstances for the investing public: moderate growth and low inflation," said Edward Nickoski, managing director of Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. "The more you see these kinds of numbers, the more the market will get comfort."
The bond market took off like a shot on the release of the producer prices report, which showed that wholesale prices had either fallen or remained unchanged for the last three months. The Treasury's 30-year bond surged 1 5/32 points, and its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped to 6.50 percent, from 6.58 percent on Monday.
When the New York Stock Exchange opened at 9:30 A.M., the giant large-capitalization companies that make up the Dow Jones industrial index followed the pattern of the credit market. These stocks climbed at the bell and began a steady upward pace that brought the nation's most widely watched index to its highest point at the close.
Advancing issues on the Big Board were far ahead of declining ones, 1,426 to 913. Volume was moderate at 373.6 million shares, compared with 289.9 million shares on Monday.
Financial-services companies were generally strong, with analysts citing a belief that profits of these corporations will be lifted in the current environment. J. P. Morgan rallied 1 5/8, to 74 3/4; the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, 3, to 99; the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac, 1 1/8, to 67 1/4, and Merrill Lynch, 1 1/4, to 61 3/8.
Oil and oil-services stocks also posted gains yesterday. Mobil closed at 100 1/8, up 1 5/8; Texaco finished at 66 3/4, up 1/2; Schlumberger closed at 69 1/2, up 1 1/8, and Halliburton ended the day at 45 1/4, up 1 1/4.
Technology issues slumped, however, a decline largely attributable to the announcement of an August drop in the Semiconductor Industry Association's book-to-bill ratio. Coming in the aftermath of last week's run-up, some traders took the opportunity to sell and take profits.
Applied Materials fell 3 1/4, to 109; Texas Instruments declined 2 7/8, to 77 1/8; Micron fell 2 1/4, to 92 1/8, and DSC Communications slipped 2 1/4, to 59 1/8. AST Research, which projected a large loss for the current quarter, declined 1 1/4, to 11 1/2.
Automotive stocks also dropped on anticipation of lower-than-expected third-quarter profits and reduced production. General Motors closed at 47 3/4, off 1 5/8; Ford Motor closed at 30 7/8, down 1 1/8, and Chrysler fell 3/4, to 56 5/8.
Computer Telephone, meanwhile, which agreed to resell Geotek's mobile communication services, soared 2 1/16, to 15. And St. Jude Medical, which formed an alliance with Heartport to develop less invasive techniques for replacing heart valves, gained 3, to 61 7/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PJC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (71%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (69%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (61%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); MINNESOTA, USA (71%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RETAIL SALES (51%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



248 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices of Treasuries Soar; Yields Are at 2-Month Low

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities soared yesterday and yields fell to a two-month low, after a Government report showed that producer prices remained surprisingly stable in August.
The Treasury's 30-year bond surged about 15/32 points. Its yield, a sensitive gauge of inflation expectations, dropped to 6.50 percent, its lowest point since July 6, from 6.58 percent on Monday. 
 Bonds rose after the Labor Department said prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers sank one-tenth of 1 percent last month, compared with expectations for an increase of the same amount.
"This economy is generating no inflation right now, and we don't expect that to change," said John Burgess, who helps manage $60 billion of bonds for the Bankers Trust Global Investment Management in New York.
The report on producer prices raised investors' hopes that the Federal Reserve will reduce short-term interest rates in the fall, possibly at the next meeting of its policy-making committee on Sept. 26.
If inflation shows more signs of slowing, the yield on the 30-year bond could drop to 6.25 percent by the end of the year, Mr. Burgess said. Investors will gain more insight into the pace of inflation today, when the Government reports on last month's consumer prices.
The Producer Price Index's core rate, which excludes food and energy costs, rose one-tenth of 1 percent, less than the two-tenths of 1 percent gain that many economists expected.
The report on the Producer Price Index, which marked the third consecutive month with no increase, is "the best possible number people could have looked for," said Steve Ricchiuto, a money market economist at Barclays de Zoete Wedd Securities in New York. It also bodes well for today's report on consumer prices, he said.
Yields of bills and notes, which have 10 years and less to maturity, fell less than bond yields.
Investors "need to see a little more proof" the central bank is poised to cut its target for Federal funds, or overnight loans between banks, before driving note yields lower, said Terry Rose, who helps manage $2 billion of bonds at Advisers Capital Management Inc. in New York.
The Fed reduced its Fed funds target a quarter percentage point to 5 3/4 percent on July 6, citing an ebbing threat of inflation.
In a speech to the Belgian Financial Forum Conference in Brussels, William J. McDonough, New York Fed president, said there was little to suggest inflation was poised to pick up speed, even though there were signs the economy was gaining strength.
It appears that "the transition to slower growth is behind us and that the U.S. economy is rebounding to a sustainable growth rate with only limited potential for accelerating inflation," he said.
To be sure, investors "should not ignore the fact that the retail sales report poses a danger for the inflation outlook," said Anthony Chan, chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio, which manages $23 billion of bonds.
The Government is scheduled to give its first estimate of August retail sales tomorrow. Some economists expect the report to show sales rose about seven-tenths of 1 percent after sagging one-tenth of 1 percent the prior month.
"If demand comes in stronger, it tells you that although inflation is well behaved at present, it may not remain that way," Mr. Chan said.
So far this month, business at big stores is picking up speed, according to the first of two private-sector studies released yesterday.
The Mitsubishi Bank/Schroder Wertheim index said sales in the week ended Saturday rose five-tenths of 1 percent from the prior week, the strongest increase since the week ended July 8.
And the Johnson Redbook Service said September's retail sales were on track to rise three-tenths of 1 percent from August's levels. That's up from a two-tenths of 1 percent pace recorded a week ago.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (63%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (51%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT ADVISERS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (56%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (53%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (51%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (51%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); 

PERSON: JOHN LAWRIE BURGESS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



249 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Panel Proposes Fee For Bringing In Foreign Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
A bipartisan Federal commission on immigration recommended today that companies pay "substantial fees" -- up to $10,000 -- when they recruit and hire some skilled foreign workers.
The panel, the United States Commission on Immigration Reform, suggested that paying such a fee would be a way for a company to demonstrate its need for a foreign worker, as opposed to an American one. As a trade-off, the commission suggested streamlining the system by which a company certifies that it tried and failed to find an American worker to fill the job, a process that can take up to two years. 
 "We're saying that an employer who wants to hire a foreign worker has to put his money where his mouth is," Susan Martin, the commission's executive director, said at a meeting with reporters. "In our market-driven economy, if you really value something highly, you pay for it."
The suggestion on paying fees for skilled foreign workers is part of a 245-page set of policy recommendations, and justifications for those recommendations, that was issued today by the commission. The nine-member panel, whose chairwoman is Barbara Jordan, the former Democratic Representative from Texas, was established in 1990 to advise Congress in setting immigration policy.
The commission recommended that after a transition period the number of people who could qualify as permanent residents based on their skills or education be lowered to 100,000 a year from the current 140,000. The commission went on to recommend that companies that recruit foreign workers who have college degrees but who are not considered to be at the top of their particular fields, or skilled workers with a minimum of specialized experience, pay a fee -- possibly as high as $10,000 -- for each of those workers.
In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 1994, about 25,000 immigrants fitting those categories gained permanent residence. The commission estimated that the process of certifying that there were no Americans who could do the jobs filled by such workers costs the Department of Labor about $60 million a year.
Representatives of some business groups said companies were wary of the recommendation to impose a fee, doubting that the process of certifying their need for the employees would be streamlined.
"No company is going to bother with the whole immigration process unless they need the person," said Austin Fragomen, chairman of the board of the American Council on International Personnel. "So to have to pay a fee on top of the whole process is just a wrongheaded, ivory tower idea that comes out of things like commissions."
The document issued today presents a more detailed rationale for a set of broad guidelines issued in June that, among other things, called for a substantial reduction in legal immigration. It comes as two bills -- one by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and one by Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas -- are being considered in Congress that would impose such restrictions. The Administration has not put forward an immigration bill.
Critics of the commission's proposals have contended that the panel failed to justify reducing the yearly level of legal immigration to 550,000 people from the current figure of about 725,000. Indeed, while the commission's report spells out a number of overarching principles for immigration policy -- including setting goals and priorities, making sponsors financially responsible for immigrants, protecting American workers and infusing immigrants with American mores, including the English language -- the report does not provide a rationale for reducing legal immigration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMISSION ON IMMIGRATION REFORM

ORGANIZATION: COMMISSION ON IMMIGRATION REFORM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FOREIGN LABOR FOREIGN LABOR (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



250 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Is Back Over 100 Yen, As Washington Takes a Bow

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
After nine months of midnight strategy sessions, emergency meetings with allies and psychological warfare against hotshot currency traders, the Clinton Administration today put to rest, at least for now, one of its lurking foreign policy crises: the dollar was back above 100 Japanese yen for the first time since January.
Even before the markets closed in New York today, Administration officials were celebrating. They gave much of the credit for the dollar's recovery to Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, who in recent months has frequently used skills honed on Wall Street to catch speculators off balance -- often during their summer vacations -- making them increasingly wary of placing billion-dollar wagers that the dollar would resume its decline. 
 "Betting against the U.S. Treasury looks like a riskier proposition than it seemed a few months ago," an American monetary official said today. Some economists agreed. "The execution of this strategy could only be called brilliant," said Allen Sinai, the global economist at Lehman Brothers, "in part because it was done so quietly, in part because the Administration has let actions speak louder than words."
After a fall of roughly 20 percent earlier this year, the dollar has regained its lost ground, closing today in New York at 101.16 yen, up from 99.96 yen on Monday. [The dollar continued its surge in Tokyo on Wednesday, trading above 102 yen for the first time since June 21, 1994.]
There is some risk, of course, that the dollar could reverse direction again. But for now, several senior Administration officials said privately that they were astounded by the speed of the dollar's rebound.
Back in April, when the dollar touched a record low of 79.75 yen, almost no one in the White House or the Treasury believed that the changing alignment of political and economic forces with Japan and Germany, among other nations, would bring the dollar back so strongly. Most doubted it would recover before the 1996 election.
Against major European currencies, the dollar showed little change. The dollar closed in New York at 1.4737 German marks, down slightly from 1.4739 on Monday. The British pound also gained slightly on the dollar, closing at $1.5548, compared with $1.5482 on Monday.
Economic policy is never far from electoral politics these days, and there is a growing hope in the White House that the stronger dollar -- along with the low inflation that a buoyant currency helps sustain -- will make it far easier to keep interest rates from rising as the election approaches.
Mr. Rubin took pains today not to declare victory, saying during a telephone conversation that "markets always make you regret doing that sort of thing." He attributed much of the dollar's rebound to a declaration of the Group of Seven finance ministers and central bankers in Washington on April 25 that stated that "Recent movements have gone beyond the levels justified by underlying economic conditions in the major countries."
At the time, the statement and a vaguely worded expression of resolve to cooperate in reversing the trend were dismissed by many traders and commentators as jawboning.
"People were skeptical and that was wrong," Mr. Rubin said. "What we said would happen is what in fact occurred."
While President Clinton is one of the big winners from the strengthening of the dollar against the yen, the Japanese may have won even more. The soaring yen had only compounded the troubles crippling the Japanese economy -- turning many of the country's key export industries into money-losers -- and it worsened the precarious condition of the country's banks. The stronger dollar also eases some of the pain of Japan's bad investments in the United States: in yen terms, the Mitsubishi Estate Company's nearly $2 billion fiasco over Rockefeller Center would have looked worse in April than it does today.
It took some time, however, and that says much about how political fortunes changed. Japan's banking crisis and its deflation worsened, finally scaring its financial authorities into taking steps to pump more money into the economy. Germany's growth slowed, prompting it to lower interest rates and seek a stronger dollar as well.
And there was good luck: inflation in the United States has stayed low, and the American stock market's rise continued to attract foreign investors. The standoff between the White House and Congress has probably helped as well, convincing investors that a real reduction in the national deficit was on the way.
In part the dollar has come back because the Bank of Japan, after months of vacillation, has regularly stepped in to spend hundreds of millions of dollars a day to prop the dollar up. Combined with Mr. Rubin's surprise interventions, Japan's determination to buoy the dollar has suddenly made it risky for speculators to be caught holding yen.
The end of the bitter trade dispute between Washington and Tokyo over automobiles was probably the final factor, economists and some Government officials say, in helping to reverse the psychology that dominated currency markets until recently. While most outside experts were unimpressed with the details of the agreement, it may have cleared the way for Mr. Rubin to press the Japanese to act more decisively in stimulating their economy and dealing with the banking crisis.
Mr. Rubin communicated frequently with his Japanese counterpart, Masayoshi Takemura, in recent months to nudge Japanese authorities along, but today he declined to give the details of those conversations or speculate about how influential they might have been.
"The important point," Mr. Rubin said, "is that we have seen the Japanese Government taking measures to deal with the realities of their economy -- slow growth, declining prices -- and they have now taken some serious measures."
Tokyo's gradual change in attitude has been matched inby Washington, where the accepted wisdom has been that a weak dollar would bolster American exports to Japan, and bring down the trade deficit. But Mr. Rubin's constant incantation that "a strong dollar is in America's interest" came to signal a revisionist view that the American economy would be helped even more by a revived Japanese economy than by a struggling one.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Dollar's Summer Surge" shows value of the dollar in Japanese yen from 6/95 to 9/95 (Source: Datastream) (pg. D8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (75%); WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (75%); WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FUTURES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); TRENDS (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E; SINAI, ALLEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



251 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Harlem Development Agency Provided Housing, Not Patronage

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"A Welcome Change in Harlem" (editorial, Sept. 7), on the closing of the Harlem Urban Development Corporation, says that the agency has "little to show" for the roughly $4 million a year it received in operating and development funds. 
 Presumably the little does not include the more than 6,000 units of housing the agency developed or helped develop. It must not include the more than 2,600 individual buildings, mostly historic brownstones, that underwent facade restoration.
It cannot include the 3,500 apartments to which the agency provided weatherization services to help improve the living conditions of low- income tenants, the economic viability of small buildings and the conservation of fuel, electricity and water.
It also must not include the homesteading buildings and tenant-owned cooperatives to which the agency provided technical assistance and seed money.
You state that the agency was "controlled largely by local politicians who sat on its board."
The majority of the 11 politicians, less than one-third of the members, were usually represented by nonvoting representatives at board meetings. The board was run by the local ministers, community leaders and businessmen who constituted its majority.
The same 11 politicians, it should be noted, will be on the new board, but the balance of power will rest downtown.
New stores abound on 125th Street, where the agency was responsible not only for the Apollo restoration but also for the Loew's Victoria, the Alhambra renovation and the construction of the 125th Street Mart. Caldor wants a site; Pathmark wants another. It is hard to get into Sylvia's for all the tour buses.
If you want to see change, take a walk up Frederick Douglass Boulevard starting at 145th Street, and look at the renewal of the Bradhurst neighborhood, until three years ago Harlem's most dangerous streets.
You refer to the agency as a "patronage mill." This never applied in any way to the Harlem Urban Development Corporation, where most staff members are professionals with 10 or more years with the agency who live in and care for the community they serve.
 
RUDY DUPUY
DIXIE HARDY MOON, MIKE RODELL
New York, Sept. 7, 1995
 
The writers served with Harlem Urban Development Corp. as, respectively, chief architect, executive assistant and housing development director.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HARLEM URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORP HARLEM URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEM URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); 

PERSON: DUPUY, RUDY; MOON, DIXIE HARDY; RODELL, MIKE

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



252 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: What U.S. Business Wants From Immigration

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Liberals Duck Immigration Debate" (Op-Ed, Sept. 7) by Michael Lind: American manufacturing no longer has an interest in maintaining a mass influx of unskilled, low-wage immigrants. While a large number of unskilled laborers helped fuel the Industrial Revolution, the technology-driven plants and offices of today's competitive global economy require the expertise of skilled workers. 
 Unskilled foreigners may be displacing some American workers in low-pay service jobs, but these immigrants enter the country through family-reunification immigration and illegal means -- not through business-sponsored immigration.
The National Association of Manufacturers is interested in the immigration issue, but only to maintain the employment-based immigration that provides American companies with the essential technical expertise in short supply in the United States. The shortage of available expert workers is a growing concern of American business.
A survey by Arthur Anderson's Enterprise Group found that a quarter of small businesses surveyed fear that the lack of qualified workers will hamper their growth. Indeed, in Ohio, the shortage of qualified workers is already a reality. The State Bureau of Employment Services was unable to find a single candidate in the state to fill one manufacturer's tool-and-die opening.
It is important that American industry continue to have access to a limited number of skilled foreign workers who are in short supply. Only 140,000 highly skilled immigrants -- less than 1 percent of the American work force -- are allowed into the United States under law.
They help educate and train native workers, give United States companies a leg up in the development of cutting-edge technology and expand overseas markets for American-made products, thereby creating jobs for American citizens. Waves of unskilled immigrants may be dragging down the pay levels of similarly un- skilled Americans, but not at industry's behest.
 
JERRY J. JASINOWSKI
President
National Assn. of Manufacturers
Washington, Sept. 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC5192 BOOKS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (55%); AURORA, OH, USA (55%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (55%); AURORA, OH, USA (55%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LABOR IMMIGRATION (94%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); 

PERSON: JASINOWSKI, JERRY J

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



253 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: States Have a Place On the Data Highway

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "The Information 'Have Nots' " (editorial, Sept. 5): 
 Serving on a library board in a small community in rural north central Pennsylvania, I concur it is important for libraries to be connected to the "information highway." However, I think you miss the larger picture, as there are many other important organizations and institutions in our communities that need to be connected that cannot afford it -- schools, medical clinics and nonprofit human service providers.
The answer is not having us taxpayers subsidize the cost but to have the government, particularly state government, provide telecommunication "backbones" (networks) for access. We are already paying as taxpayers for the state network. Why do we have to pay again?
There are excellent examples where more progressive states provide their networks for libraries, schools and nonprofits -- North Carolina and Iowa are two.
More important, telecommunications policies under consideration or being implemented are based on a market-driven model. While this model serves a substantial number of people, it will not serve the information have-nots.
These groups are more than just libraries, and they do not have the economic means to access and be served by the telecommunications providers. Consistent with this is the need for cooperation among those about whom you are concerned, to cost-share and coordinate their computer and telecommunication services.
 
GERALD E. DEPO
Bloomsburg, Pa., Sept. 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; STATES (US); TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBRARIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (69%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (56%); 

PERSON: DEPO, GERALD E

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



254 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Is Victor In the Primary In Baltimore

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Mayor Kurt L. Schmoke, the first black to be elected Mayor of Baltimore, won the Democratic mayoral primary tonight, a victory that virtually insures his re-election for a third term in November.
Surviving a strong challenge from Mary Pat Clarke, the City Council president, who is white, Mr. Schmoke won the right to oppose Victor Clark, a car salesman who defeated two other candidates in the Republican primary. 
 But in Baltimore, the nation's 14th largest city, where 85 percent of the 339,000 are Democrats, Mr. Schmoke is expected to win another four-year term easily.
With 98 percent of the ballots counted, Mr. Schmoke had 81,601 votes, or 59 percent, to 53,076, or 39 percent, for Mrs. Clarke, who conceded at 11 P.M. A third candidate, Kelley Brohawn, a water taxi driver, had 2,786 votes, or 2 percent.
Mr. Clark won the Republican race with 64 percent of the vote.
Appearing before supporters at his election night headquarters, Mr. Schmoke said President Clinton had phoned to congratulate him. He then told his supporters, "Baltimore won, and we have to move forward now in a wonderful, dynamic partnership."
The campaign focused as much on the style of the candidates as the substance of their policies.
As liberal Democrats, they shared similar views on most big issues. But while Mr. Schmoke projected the image of a studious bureaucrat whose decisions generally followed careful consideration, Mrs. Clarke accentuated her pugnacious personality, selling herself as a can-do civil servant with more energy and solutions than Mr. Schmoke.
But they also saw the city through vastly different prisms, as if Baltimore was either a half-full or half-empty glass of water. Mr. Schmoke, who constantly reminded voters of his close ties to Mr. Clinton and Gov. Parris N. Glendening, hammered away at the accomplishments of his administration, including a $100 million Federal grant to encourage investment in the inner city and innovative programs in the schools.
He campaigned hard on the notion that even though Baltimore suffered from the same urban ills besetting other big cities, like job loss and high crime rates, the his successes outweighed his failures.
Along the way, he gained national attention for his policies of urban renewal and decriminalization of illegal drugs.
But Mrs. Clarke, once a supporter of Mr. Schmoke, was unrelenting in her characterization of him as a leader who has outstayed his usefulness. Her campaign slogan was, "If it's broke, fix it," and she cited much that she felt needed fixing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (91%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE (MD); UNITED STATES (91%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BLACKS MAYORS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); DRUG POLICY (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); DECRIMINALIZATION (65%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (50%); CRIME RATES (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; SCHMOKE, KURT L (MAYOR); CLARKE, MARY PAT (CITY COUNCIL PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



255 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Sex Shops Zoning Plan Eases Rules in Manhattan

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Yielding to criticism from residents in the boroughs outside Manhattan, the City Planning Commission revised its new zoning proposals for sex-related businesses yesterday by expanding the areas in Manhattan where they could operate.
The latest plan would keep the restrictions that are intended to reduce the number and break up the concentration of X-rated video stores and topless bars in places like Times Square. 
 But compared with the original plan, the new proposal would increase by about 40 percent the areas in Manhattan where sex shops could legally operate, including the diamond district, Herald Square, and slivers around City Hall and the World Trade Center.
The changes represent a modest victory for residents and political leaders in the other boroughs who feared that the original proposals would lead many of Manhattan's sex businesses to migrate en masse to industrial and waterfront areas in Brooklyn and Queens.
"There will still be pressure to squeeze sex shops to the outer boroughs, but this is a better proposal than it was before," said Sal F. Albanese, a Democratic City Councilman from Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. "I still have some concerns. But it's a step in the right direction.
But the changes were not welcomed by the Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, who had opposed the Mayor's original proposals in part because of concerns that the zoning would force the closing of sex-related businesses integral to the city's gay community in Greenwich Village. She complained that not only did the new plan not address that concern, but the new proposals would cause problems in other parts of Manhattan.
"The original proposal was a bad proposal, and this makes it worse," she said. "This doesn't solve any problems."
She said the proposal would undermine the financial prospects of "several business districts that are fragile right now." She called the Planning Commission's revisions "a further assault on midtown Manhattan," and criticized Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani for "singling out such areas as the diamond district that represent critical pieces of the city's economy."
The Planning Commission proposals are likely to be the final set of modifications to a plan first proposed by Mayor Giuliani last year. The 13-member commission is to vote on the matter on Monday. It would then go to the City Council for a vote. Mr. Rose said he expected the commission to approve the new plan.
As originally proposed, the plan would have effectively banned sex businesses from all but manufacturing areas outside of Manhattan.
The proposals had sought to reverse the proliferation of sex-related businesses both in midtown Manhattan and in residential neighborhoods where they had rarely been seen before -- places like Chelsea, the Upper West Side and Forest Hills, Queens. In the last decade, city officials say, the number of adult businesses has risen 35 percent, from 131 in 1984 to 177 in December 1993 -- 107 of them in Manhattan.
But as details of the Mayor's proposals became clear, protests arose in many quarters of the city.
"We were responding to the concerns voiced in public testimony," said Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the Planning Commission. "There was a sense that it might be desirable to provide more opportunities for these businesses to locate in Manhattan, to allay fears in the outer boroughs that these businesses would be displaced to their areas."
He added that the changes would insure that patrons would continue to have easy access to these businesses by mass transit.
The revised plan would leave intact provisions barring sex establishments within 500 feet of residential areas, schools and places of worship, and within 500 feet of one another. But it would eliminate a requirement for a 500-foot buffer zone between areas where adult businesses would be allowed and certain high-density commercial areas where they would be prohibited.
That elimination would have no impact on areas outside of Manhattan, but it would expand the legal areas in Manhattan.
The commission also added details to the legal definition of an adult business. The term would cover a business with either 40 percent of the floor area or 10,000 square feet devoted to adult material.
There was considerable debate among members of the Planning Commission about the measures. Some at yesterday's meeting complained that the plan placed undue and illegal regulations on businesses whose right to exist freely is protected by the Constitution.

GRAPHIC: Photo: New zoning would increase the Manhattan areas (in black) where sex shops could legally open. But it would still break up the X-rated concentrations in places like Times Square. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)
 
Maps/Diagrams of Manhattan showing original plan and new plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; ZONING ZONING (91%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); OBSCENITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



256 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: What U.S. Business Wants From Immigration;
A Policy of Compassion

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Liberals Duck Immigration Debate" (Op-Ed, Sept. 7), Michael Lind dismisses the contention that "sinister racist 'scapegoating' " is a motivation behind the argument that legal immigrants take jobs away from American citizens. Yet he is quick to assert that "the white and black working poor have been fleeing the metropolitan areas of California, where the economic competition with Latin American and Asian newcomers is the most intense." 
 Mr. Lind's anti-immigration sentiment is commonplace, and his choice of words is banal compared with other expressions in the media and in Washington. After all, immigrant-bashing is in style once again.
The history of immigration in the United States is far from wonderful. Bigotry was the direct cause of the closing of America's doors to legal immigrants in the 1920's. As more Italians and Jews entered the United States at the turn of the century, anti-Roman Catholic and anti-Semitic attitudes became more popular and more frequently expressed on Capitol Hill and on Main Street.
Similarly, the Oriental Exclusion Acts of 1882 and 1902 (not repealed until 1943) were racially inspired. Asians, mostly Chinese nationals, first arrived in California in 1848. Over the years, as the number of Asians grew, so did xenophobia. Americans denounced Asians for, among other things, unsanitary and immoral habits.
During the economic depression of the 1870's, anti-Asian sentiment rose to such a level that numerous Asians were victims of mob violence. Instead of protecting hard-working residents who built our national railroads, Congress excluded them.
The eradication of racial and national origin quotas from the laws of immigration did not occur until 1965. Mr. Lind erroneously claims that our immigration policy since then is "tailored to the convenience of the American overclass."
Our immigration policy is tailored to the American family, the American worker, the American employer and people fleeing from persecution.
The overwhelming majority of permanent visas approved by the Government are issued to relatives of United States citizens and lawful permanent residents. That is, family reunification is at the heart of American immigration policy. Visas are also issued to foreign investors who wish to come to the United States and infuse their money and energy to build a mighty enterprise.
Other employment-based visas are issued to foreign-national workers but, save for a few extraordinary cases, only after the Department of Labor certifies that there is no United States citizen who would perform the required task.
With the labor certification process, current law prevents foreign-alien workers from taking away jobs from American workers.
The social, political and economic contribution of immigrants to this country is and always has been tremendous.
 
E. SIMON RAPHAEL
New York, Sept. 9, 1995
 
The writer is an immigration lawyer.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES IMMIGRATION (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); LAWYERS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); RELIGION (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); 

PERSON: RAPHAEL, E SIMON MICHAEL LIND (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



257 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Opts to Kill Agency Giving Legal Advice to the Poor

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13

 BODY:
The House Judiciary Committee voted today to abolish the Legal Services Corporation, which provides lawyers for poor people in a wide array of civil cases like landlord-tenant disputes, domestic-violence cases or legal battles affecting the homeless, the mentally handicapped and migrant workers.
By a vote of 18 Republicans to 13 Democrats, the committee voted to eliminate the agency, which this year had a budget of $415 million, and replace it with $250 million in block grants next year to the states. The bill would also impose significant new restrictions on lawyers who are paid from the block grants, barring them from filing class-action lawsuits and challenges to the constitutionality of any laws. 
 The legislation is expected to reach the House floor as early as next week. Similar legislation, sponsored by Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, would provide $210 million in block grants. It is expected to be introduced on the floor of the Senate this week. President Clinton, whose wife was once the chairwoman of Legal Services, has threatened to veto the legislation.
With little notice, Legal Services has been put on the list of Federally supported programs slated for drastic cuts or possible elimination by the Republican Congressional leaders. But unlike the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and the National Endowment for the Arts, which are also targets of cutbacks or cutoffs, Legal Services is being rent by three political forces: fiscal austerity, efforts to overhaul welfare and a powerful new hostility in Washington to lawyers that has inspired conservative lawmakers to promote an agenda aimed at limiting lawsuits brought by the poor and injured.
Conservatives in Congress have long argued that lawyers financed by Legal Services have impeded an overhaul of the welfare system. In a handful of suits, lawyers sponsored by Legal Services have successfully challenged state restrictions imposed on welfare recipients.
The Christian Coalition has also lobbied Congress heavily against the corporation, arguing that it has undermined family values by giving poor people lawyers in divorce cases.
"This is a tremendous step toward reforming the ineffective Federal legal assistance program," said Representative George W. Gekas, Republican of Pennsylvania, the principal sponsor of the Judiciary Committee legislation. "The Legal Services Corporation has clearly outlived its usefulness. It's time to try something new."
But the corporation's supporters say that welfare cases represent only a fraction of the work it has done and that the success of those cases demonstrates that the agency has not undertaken frivolous suits. Moreover, the supporters say that block grants would fail to assist the poor because many states have shown no interest in assisting indigent clients in civil suits.
"What is proposed now would be devastating to tens of millions of economically disadvantaged people, half of whom are children," said Roberta Cooper Ramo, president of the American Bar Association. "Without access to civil justice, the American dream is a cruel joke."
Of the 1.7 million cases handled by Legal Services lawyers last year, 33 percent involved family matters like child support, spouse abuse and divorce. Twenty-two percent involved housing, 16 percent involved welfare and other Government benefits and 11 percent involved consumer issues. The remainder dealt with education, employment, health care and individual rights. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LEGAL SERVICES CORP CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (91%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (91%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL SERVICES CORP LEGAL SERVICES CORP (91%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (91%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGAL AID (92%); LAWYERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (77%); VETO (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FAMILY LAW (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FAMILY (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (69%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (66%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (66%); MIGRANT WORKERS (57%); SPONSORSHIP (54%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN BILL CLINTON (58%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



258 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Agency's Report Provokes a Revolt

SERIES: Special Pleaders -- A periodic look at lobbying.

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13

 BODY:
Representative Henry Bonilla, a San Antonio Congressman in his second term, was home for a visit early this year when he received a small stream of visitors who wanted to complain about a Federal agency. The visitors were local back surgeons and some physical therapists angry over a study by the agency that said most back surgery and much physical therapy used by Americans for back pain was unnecessary.
As a Republican member of the Appropriations Committee's panel that deals with the agency's budget, Mr. Bonilla was a good choice for the surgeons' complaints that the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research was a waste of money. Mr. Bonilla, his aides said, looked into its work, concluded it was inefficient and duplicated the work of other Federal agencies and became a leader in the effort to abolish the agency by eliminating its financing. 
 As far as battles in the current multibillion-dollar budget war go, the fight over the agency is only a tiny skirmish, because its budget of $165 million dollars is a fraction of the $300 billion the Federal Government spends on Medicare and Medicaid. But the fight over the agency is emblematic of how such fiscal combat is being waged.
Back surgeons have been mobilizing, including an Arlington, Va., back specialist who said he had taken his case to members of the House and Senate who are among his patients, as are members of the Supreme Court.
The specialist, Dr. Neil Kahanovitz, has founded a lobbying group to battle the research agency, insisting that he is not trying to protect his income or those of fellow back surgeons. He is, he said, simply trying to eliminate a wasteful institution that is biased in matters like how to treat back pain.
The agency, which is supposed to evaluate the effectiveness of medical treatments, issued a set of guidelines for the public last December that said, in effect, that most of the back surgery performed in the country is unnecessary.
Back pain, which is eventually experienced by 8 of 10 American adults, is an often-puzzling medical phenomenon that will disappear by itself in most cases, the agency reported. Billions of dollars in medical costs could be saved without surgery, the report said.
While the agency's work, including the report on spinal treatment, has been endorsed by large segments of the medical profession, the North American Spine Society, the professional group of back surgeons, whose members receive a substantial share of the dollars for back surgery, criticized the study as biased in its methods. So did Dr. Kahanovitz.
But even without such criticism, the agency was in peril. When Republicans in control of Congress are looking to cut $9 billion on the way to eventually balancing the budget, every dollar, or more precisely, every million dollars, can count, the agency's opponents argued.
Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon, a Republican from upstate New York who is chairman of the House Rules Committee, said the agency was a perfect example of a Federal agency that has little reason to exist.
"With an annual deficit of way over two billion dollars there is no way to justify an agency whose work is is routinely duplicated by at least nine other Federal agencies, not to mention many private groups who do the same work," he said.
"Look, we're cutting back on programs while trying to not cut back on programs for needy people. Do you cut school lunch programs or programs like this?"
Representative Sam Johnson, the Texas Republican who led an effort on the floor to eliminate the agency, said he did not believe the complaints from back surgeons were a factor in the debate. He added that he wanted to eliminate the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research because the Government should not be telling doctors how to conduct their business.
But Representative John Edward Porter, an Illinois Republican who is chairman of the Appropriations Committee's panel on health, said, "The fact of the matter is that a number of members were upset with what AHCPR had done regarding back surgery." He said he believed the agency's work was valuable, producing results that people needed to hear.
The agency's director, Dr. Clifton Gaus, has gone on the offensive, depicting the situation as one in which back surgeons were trying to undercut his agency simply to maintain their substantial incomes.
"We've got the mission of doing research that produces information that will allow the consumers and providers to make decisions to get the best quality care at the best price," he said in an interview. "And in doing this, it's bound to create economic winners and losers."
Dr. Gaus said eye surgeons had similarly complained two years ago when his agency issued guidelines for cataract treatment that inevitably meant fewer operations.
The agency was created by a law signed in 1989 by President George Bush and is supposed to study the effectiveness of medical treatments, both in whether they work and whether they are cost-effective. The House has cut its budget to $60 million on its way to eliminating it later on. A Senate appropriations subcommittee today increased that figure to $127 million and the full committee is expected to take up the issue on Friday.
The agency has also issued guidelines on how to treat cataracts, prostate disease, inner-ear infections in children and pneumonia.
Dr. Gaus said it was simplistic to say the agency's work duplicated that of other Government entities because it had a distinct mission to evaluate the costs of treatments, while other agencies did pure research without regard to economics.
While the spine surgeons group has opposed the agency, the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, a larger group of surgeons who operate not only on backs but also bones, joints and muscles, has supported the agency.
Dr. Robert B. Keller, a former professor of orthopedics at the Harvard Medical School, who participated in the lower back pain study, said that the guidelines were the result of the best science available. Those who have attacked the study, he said, are simply trying to protect their livelihoods.
"They have managed through some fairly skillful political moves to cause a lot of damage to this agency simply because they don't like what this agency produced," Dr. Keller said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY AND RESEARCH TEXAS REPUBLICAN (69%); AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY & RESEARCH (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY AND RESEARCH AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY & RESEARCH (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BACK (HUMAN BODY PART); SURVEYS AND SERIES; DOCTORS; SURGERY AND SURGEONS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MEDICARE (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); MEDICAID (70%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, NEIL A HENRY BONILLA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



259 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Man Denies Plotting to Bomb I.R.S. Office

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: TYLER, Tex., Sept 13

 BODY:
An unemployed car salesman pleaded not guilty today to charges that he had asked undercover Federal agents to get plastic explosives and help him blow up an Internal Revenue Service building in Austin.
The man, Charles Ray Polk, 45, was charged on Tuesday with plotting to blow up the I.R.S. regional service center. 
 Appearing before Federal Magistrate Harry McKee today, Mr. Polk, described as a militant tax protester, pleaded not guilty to all six charges. The court appointed a public defender.
"There's no doubt in our minds he had the intent to carry this out," said Mike Bradford, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas.
Mr. Polk asked undercover agents about getting plastic explosives and for help in blowing up the building, Mr. Bradford said.
About 4,200 employees work at the center, which processes tax returns from four states. The agents contend that Mr. Polk planned the bombing between April 4 and July 28, when he was arrested on gun charges.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (91%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN (TEX); UNITED STATES (91%); TEXAS, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); EXPLOSIVES (90%); MAGISTRATES (88%); LAWYERS (75%); ARRESTS (73%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (69%); 

PERSON: POLK, CHARLES RAY CHARLES RAY POLK (92%); MIKE BRADFORD (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



260 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
India Nationalists Oppose Presence of a U.S. Chain

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Sept. 13

 BODY:
India's first Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant was closed today by local authorities, then swiftly reopened under a court order, as nationalists pressed efforts to curb the entry of foreign corporations into India under its four-year-old program of economic liberalization.
City authorities in Bangalore ordered the restaurant closed after weeks of protests by a local farmers group allied to a wider campaign across India against foreign investments. The city's order cited what was termed an infringement of Indian health rules, but officials of an Indian subsidiary of Pepsico, the corporate parent of Kentucky Fried Chicken, said the closing was politically motivated. 
 "What is the agenda here?" asked Sandeep Kohli, managing director of Pepsico Restaurants International, which has announced an $80 million, seven-year plan to open 60 fried chicken restaurants in India. "Ours is the cleanest restaurant in the whole of India. We are providing jobs, and raising the quality of food service. We are giving a taste of something that is new to India."
Since opening in June, the Bangalore restaurant had drawn as many as 1,500 customers a day to its location on the city's main commercial avenue. But it had also acted as a lightning rod for Indian groups opposed to what they have characterized as a takeover of India by foreign companies. Last month, these groups scored their biggest success when the state government of Maharashtra "repudiated" a contract for a $2.8 billion power plant that the Enron Development Corporation, a subsidiary of the Enron Corporation of Houston, was building near Bombay. The company had spent nearly $300 million on the project.
Officials who shut the Bangalore restaurant said they acted after tests on chicken samples showed a level of monosodium glutamate, a taste enhancer widely used in cooking, that was nearly three times the permissible limit under Indian law. At a news conference here today after Pepsico had obtained an order in a Bangalore court staying the closing, Mr. Kohli said Pepsico's tests showed the levels of the additive to be "far less" than the 1 percent limit set by India.
He accused Bangalore officials of violating Indian standards for food tests. "KFC is a responsible, internationally renowned corporation, serving meals to seven million people daily in 9,400 outlets in 78 countries," Mr. Kohli said. "We have built this customer franchise on the planks of our commitment to quality, service and cleanliness. It pains us, therefore, to be wrongfully vilified in this way."
Bangalore has been considered one of the most favorable cities in India for foreign companies taking advantage of India's economic reforms. The city is the center of India's computer and aerospace industries and has won contracts from major American computer companies for the development of software. But it has also been a center of activity for groups of leftists and nationalists demanding strict limits on foreign investment.
These groups say foreign companies should be limited to ventures involving high technology, and that they should be excluded from activities where India can provide for itself, including food processing, agriculture and the manufacture of consumer goods. "India does not need foreign investment in junk food manufacturing," said Nanjunda Swamy, leader of the farmers group that has led the Bangalore protests.
The protests prompted the posting of a police guard at the Bangalore restaurant, a step that Pepsico executives said had only a limited effect on patronage. Two years ago, protesters ransacked the Bangalore offices of Cargill Inc., throwing office equipment out the window amid contentions that the company's seed imports would put Indians out of work. Other recent protests have been aimed at the Indian operations of the Coca-Cola Company, McDonald's, the Pizza Hut and Frito-Lay units of Pepsico and the Kellogg Company, among others.
According to surveys by Western embassies here, the cancellation of Enron's power plant project has caused some American, European and Japanese companies to delay the completion of investment deals while Indian politicians argue over whether the Enron project should be revived. But Mr. Kohli, who is an Indian citizen, said Pepsico intended to go ahead with its investment plans.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (82%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (74%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (74%); MUMBAI, INDIA (59%); 

COMPANY: KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN CORP; PEPSICO INC KFC CORP (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (82%); PEPSICO INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN CORP; PEPSICO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; BANGALORE (INDIA); INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (74%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (74%); MUMBAI, INDIA (59%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); POULTRY (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); RIOTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (50%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F SANDEEP KOHLI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



261 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Coliseum Reopens After Decade in Limbo

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON 

 BODY:
For more than 10 years it has largely been an empty shell on Columbus Circle, an unattractive, windowless block of a building that was the subject of bitter battles among environmentalists, developers and city officials.
Today, something is finally happening with the New York Coliseum, but not the gargantuan residential and commercial project that Mayor Edward I. Koch and Mortimer B. Zuckerman proposed a decade ago. The Coliseum is reopening as what it was designed to be in 1954, a home for commercial trade shows in Manhattan. 
 With its thick yellow support columns freshly painted and its steep gray marble stairways newly polished, the Coliseum is set to welcome 13 events scheduled between now and the end of the year. The first of those, the International Jeanswear and Sportswear Show, opens today.
In the next three months alone the Coliseum's owner, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, expects to take in $700,000 in rent. At that rate, the M.T.A. could have collected $28 million if the Coliseum had not sat virtually vacant since 1985.
Some of the Coliseum's new shows used to fill the Passenger Ship Terminal on the Hudson River, hotel ballrooms in midtown Manhattan and convention centers in other cities. The sportswear show is moving to the Coliseum from Miami. The nationally televised Billboard Music Awards, which had been held in Los Angeles since 1990, booked the Coliseum for Dec. 6 after discovering that Radio City Music Hall and Carnegie Hall were taken. And the New York Flower Show will leave the ship terminal at 50th Street for the Coliseum next March.
Marshall Lester, who organized the sportswear show, said he can draw bigger crowds in New York, in part because foreign wholesalers are more likely to come here than to go to Miami. He is paying $15,000 a day for one floor of the Coliseum, slightly more expensive than one pier at the terminal. But show promoters see advantages in the Coliseum's location -- closer to midtown hotels and passing cabs, and directly above the Columbus Circle subway station.
At the same time, Columbus Circle itself seems to be in the early stages of a renaissance. The Coliseum plaza, where homeless people once camped in cardboard boxes, has open-air restaurants and crafts vendors. Its neighbor across Columbus Circle, once the Gulf and Western Building, is now billed as "the most important new address in the world" -- and the new owner, Donald J. Trump, has not even finished a top-to-bottom remodeling job that will turn it into hotel rooms and apartments.
The new shows at the Coliseum are a short-term answer to the question: What to do about the Coliseum? Officials said the M.T.A. has made no long-term decisions about the building, which was to have been demolished for an office, retail and residential complex planned by Mr. Zuckerman.
His plans were scaled down after complaints that the giant structure he had proposed would cast a long shadow on Central Park. Then real estate values plunged in the recession, which affected the economics of the deal.
It was the demise of Mr. Zuckerman's deal a year ago that made possible advance bookings for conventions. As long as he was in the picture, M.T.A. officials said, the agency had to write a 30-day cancellation clause into all contracts with exhibitors.
"Clearly, from a standpoint of any of these major trade shows, that was untenable for them," said John Tobin, one of the M.T.A. executives overseeing the Coliseum's new mission. "They'd say, 'To hell with it, we'll go to Atlantic City, where there's a hall with a contractual agreement that's definite.' "
Convention experts agree that New York also needed more space. Earlier in the year, a report by the city's Economic Development Corporation found that New York was losing business to cities like Chicago and Toronto, which can accommodate bigger shows. The same analysis concluded that New York City would end up with $30 million in taxes and 10,000 new jobs from a successful convention center at the Coliseum.
Deputy Mayor John S. Dyson, who holds a seat on the M.T.A. board, has long cautioned against siphoning off business from the Javits Center. But Robert E. Boyle, the president and chief executive of the Javits Center, said yesterday that he is not worried about the Coliseum bookings.
"The Coliseum's not really a competitor of ours," Mr. Boyle said, "and it probably can take some smaller shows that we can't accommodate, at least in the short term."
David Larkin, the largest producer of trade shows at the Javits Center, said that the two convention halls needed to coordinate their schedules. "Often people can't get in the Javits Center on the dates that they want," he said. "For that reason, to my mind, the Coliseum needs to be looked at as an arm of the Javits Center rather than as an independent profit center, which it will never be."
It is not clear how the Coliseum will affect the ship terminal, which is operated by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey under a lease from the city that expires at the end of next year. The Giuliani administration says it expects to seek proposals for other possible uses of the terminal. For promoters of midsize shows, there is now more than one choice.
Mr. Tobin said the M.T.A. will net about $400,000 from the 13 Coliseum events this year and has hired a consultant to study how to reduce operating expenses next year.
To prepare for the return of crowds, the M.T.A. has spruced up the Coliseum, though not much -- the agency has spent roughly $180,000 on repairs. "It's not the million dollars you'd spend to really make it a class facility," Mr. Tobin said.
Yesterday, breezing through the Coliseum lobby, Mr. Lester passed display booths taking shape for today's opening. He checked on a 28-foot-tall photograph being tied to a wall. And beside the escalators, which had just been switched on again, he watched what looked like a barn-raising: five workers were heaving timbers while another hammered nails to hold up a suddenly imposing structure.
"It's pretty chaotic," Mr. Lester said as electric saws whined and drills whirred. "And we're just in the early throes."
It is a scene that will be repeated often in coming months. The New York Race for the Cure, to raise money for a nonprofit organization that sponsors breast cancer research, is using a corner of one floor as a registration area starting today. "We get our name up on that huge marquee, which means a lot to us," said Peg Horan, a spokeswoman for the race.
Beth Goldberg, the race-day coordinator, said she had called hotel after hotel before she tried the Coliseum. "The hotels, even if they did have space, didn't want to dedicate such a large space to a group that wasn't going to be using rooms or catering rooms," she said.
Carol Ross, a producer of the New York Flower Show, said she was eager to make the switch.
"As soon as we heard it was reopening," she said, "we called to check it out. It's kind of a no-brainer. For a public show, the Coliseum is a much better, centrally accessible location. The subways are there, the buses are there, it's easy to get cabs outside."
By contrast, the ship terminal, which the flower show had rented in recent years, seemed too remote, and gardeners chafed at the 12-foot ceiling there. At the Coliseum, the ceiling is about 35 feet from the floor.
"Trees that we bring in will look taller at the Coliseum than at the pier with the ceiling touching it," Ms. Ross said. "You know, that wonderful illusion that comes with open space."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Lineup" lists thirteen shows that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority has lined up at the Coliseum this year. (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) CARNEGIE HALL CORP (55%); JAVITS CENTER (77%); NEW YORK (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) JAVITS CENTER (77%); NEW YORK (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK COLISEUM; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); MUSIC (70%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); MARINE VESSELS (66%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (51%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES DONALD TRUMP (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



262 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Star at Conference on Women: Banker Who Lends to the Poor

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 13

 BODY:
If there is one man who has achieved stardom of sorts at the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women, it is the soft-spoken economist from Bangladesh who wandered into a desperately poor village 20 years ago and got an idea that is changing the face of banking.
"Capital does not need to be the handmaiden only of the rich," said the economist, Muhammad Yunus, who founded the Grameen Bank to help poor people, especially women, by lending them small amounts of money so they could become self-sufficient entrepreneurs. 
 "Access to credit should be a human right," Mr. Yunus says, "irrespective of economic situation."
He is a pioneer in extending "micro-credit" for "micro-enterprises," a poverty-fighting strategy that is widely supported by delegates to the conference. In its "Platform for Action," the conference is seeking a commitment from governments and financial institutions to expand credit to poor women around the world.
"We need to teach commercial banks how to lend to low-income women," said Nancy Barry, a former official with the World Bank and president of Women's World Banking, which works with governments and financial institutions to stimulate small loans to women and create small-scale lending cooperatives and banks run by women.
Mr. Yunus says the owners of capital can be convinced that the poor represent a large, untapped credit market where survival instincts and local skills make the borrowers a good risk. As proof, the Grameen Bank had a loan volume of nearly $400 million last year and is approaching $500 million this year, making it the largest bank in the world serving the poor.
The bank has made small loans to two million families in 35,000 villages in Bangladesh, where more than 90 percent of the borrowers are women and repayment rates exceed 90 percent. Since Grameen served as the first large-scale demonstration that the poor are creditworthy, the concept has branched out to Latin American, Africa and Asia.
In 1985, micro-credit institutions and small credit cooperatives had about one million customers worldwide. While the figure today is approaching 10 million, it represents only 2 percent of the estimated 500 million women worldwide who have virtually no access to credit. Because the concept remains largely disconnected to the mainstream of international banking, many of the advocates here hope to organize a summit meeting on micro-banking in Washington next year.
"Traditional commercial bankers have not been trained to consider this sector of borrowers," said Kathleen Weber, an investment broker with Smith Barney Harris Upham & Company in Bellevue, Wash. "Lending to the destitute is so totally foreign to their education but it is proving itself to be a viable, sustainable and profitable program that also does a lot of social good."
Mr. Yunus began his experiment in 1976 by lending to poor women in a village near the University of Chittagong, where he was a lecturer. He noticed that while many of the women had the skill and the motivation to prosper, their businesses were drained by money lenders who charged usurious rates. So he lent money without collateral and created cells of five women who each could receive loans and guaranteed the repayment of the others. One might buy a duck to sell eggs; another cloth to sew; another bamboo to make stools.
"Someone had to demonstrate that it really works," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: BANGLADESH (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GRAMEEN BANK (BANGLADESH) SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (60%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAMEEN BANK (BANGLADESH) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGLADESH; BANGLADESH (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; WOMEN; UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON WOMEN CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); WOMEN (91%); MICROFINANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); FAMILY (69%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E; YUNUS, MUHAMMAD MUHAMMAD YUNUS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



263 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Rise, With Indexes Again at Highs

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
The stock market surged again yesterday, with the major indexes all establishing new records, but advancing stocks barely topped decliners on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq market.
"The most significant factor was that the market differentiated among stocks, not among groups," said Louis Ehrenkrantz, president of Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum. 
 Once more, stocks were affected by the release of Government economic statistics. The Consumer Price Index inched up one-tenth of 1 percent last month, which caused bonds to soar early in the day and stocks to follow. Bonds soon gave back the gains, with the 30-year Treasury bond losing 8/32 ; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, rose to 6.52 percent, from 6.50 percent on Tuesday.
A separate report showed that earnings, adjusted for inflation, slid nine-tenths of 1 percent in August, after two consecutive monthly increases. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve, in its "beige book" report, indicated no significant change in the slowly growing economy of the last few weeks.
Spurred by program trading in the session's last hour, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 18.31 points, to 4,765.52, notching its 48th record in 1995, just a day after its previous record close. The Standard & Poor Corporation's 500-stock index rose 2.26 points, to 578.77, another in a series of record closes. And the Nasdaq composite index increased 2.40 points yesterday to its new closing high of 1,067.40.
Advances on the Big Board exceeded decliners, 1,192 to 1,087. A total of 384.4 million shares changed hands, compared with 373.6 million shares on Tuesday.
Shares of the Hewlett-Packard Company and Motorola Inc. were among the technology stocks that moved higher during the day. Hewlett-Packard increased 1 5/8 to 85 1/4 and Motorola rose 1 1/2 to 79 7/8.
But I.B.M. led other high-tech companies down. The company told analysts yesterday that problems with a line of mainframe systems would move certain revenue into the fourth quarter. Its shares fell 2 7/8, to 94 5/8; those of the Microsoft Corporation, the software giant, dropped 1/8, to 96 1/8.
Financial issues benefited from the perception that low inflation will result in falling interest rates, encouraging corporations and consumers to increase their borrowing. The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, also known as Freddie Mac, rose 5/8 a share, to 67 7/8; Dean Witter, Discover & Company, rose 3/4, to 57 3/4, and American International Group climbed 3/8, to 81 3/8.
Some fertilizer stocks were also among the day's standouts. Shares of the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan closed at 68 3/8, up 2 1/2, and those of IMC Global Inc. closed at 65 1/8, up 7/8.
But automobile stocks slumped amid concern over third-quarter profits. The General Motors Corporation fell 3/4 a share, to 47, and the Ford Motor Company dropped 5/8, to 30 1/4.
Some steel stocks followed autos downward. Shares of the Rouge Steel Company dropped 5/8, to 25 1/8 and those of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation shed 3/8, to 14 3/8.
Gambling issues were lower; because of scandals, traders noted, Louisiana is considering curbs on its casino industry. Circus Circus Enterprises shares dropped 5/8, to 32, and those of the Hilton Hotels Corporation lost 2, to 64.
Pepsico Inc.'s stock rose 1 1/4 a share, to 48 3/4, after the company said it expected net income to advance by 15 percent next year. But Sports Authority Inc., which said it expects its third-quarter same-store sales to be flat, dropped 3 1/2 a share, to 25 1/4. And shares in Three-Five Systems Inc., which announced late on Monday that it expects lower third-quarter earnings, plunged 5 1/8, to 24 7/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (81%); HPQ (NYSE) (81%); MS (NYSE) (80%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (63%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); POT (TSX) (60%); POT (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (81%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (63%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (62%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS212392 PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (60%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (81%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (81%); MORGAN STANLEY (80%); MICROSOFT CORP (63%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (62%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); POTASH CORP OF SASKATCHEWAN INC (60%); NYSE MKT LLC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); STATISTICS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); FERTILIZERS (60%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



264 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Upper Peninsula Journal;
Yes, They're Yoopers, and Proud of It

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER 

DATELINE: MARQUETTE, Mich.

 BODY:
The last copper mine on the Upper Peninsula of Michigan closed this summer at the town of White Pine, putting a thousand people out of work and ending an era. Back in the 1920's, this region produced 80 percent of the world's copper.
Another, briefer era ended in August, when the Air Force shut down its K. I. Sawyer Base 15 miles south of here. After Marquette, "Sawyer was the U. P.'s second-largest city, with 12,000 people," said David Edwards, managing editor of The Mining Journal here, using the common appellation for the peninsula. "We're heading for difficult times." The only thing booming on the peninsula now, Mr. Edwards added, is casino gambling on the reservations of the Chippewas, the Ojibwas and the Sioux. 
 The departure of copper mining and the Air Force has served to deepen a sense of separateness among Yoopers, as the people of the U. P. are called. Not that it was possible to deepen it by much. The geographical isolation of their region, combined with factors including extremes of climate that range from 30-inch snows in March to 100-degree readings in July, has long given Yoopers a self-identity distinct from that of Lower Michigan and sometimes even the rest of the United States.
About 88 percent of the Upper Peninsula's boundaries -- 1,700 miles -- are defined by the coastlines of Lake Superior, Lake Huron and Lake Michigan. The physical isolation, particularly from Lower Michigan, was especially palpable until 1957, when a suspension bridge across the five miles of the Mackinac Straits opened, connecting Michigan's southern region to its northern, where just 4 percent of the state's people occupy large stretches of land.
With the bridge, one of the world's largest, a new familiarity bred a measure of contempt. "Bomb the bridge!" some Upper Peninsula wags demanded. "Build a trapdoor in the northbound lanes," was another proposal.
Within a few years, there was a revival of a movement, more than a century old, to give the Upper Peninsula statehood, as the State of Superior. In 1962, a U.P. Independence Association was founded. In the early 1970's, Lower Michiganders started calling their northern cousins "Yupes," which quickly became "Yoopers." The response was to brand the southerners "Trolls," because they "live below the bridge."
Then Joe Zimmer erected a billboard proclaiming "Governor's Mansion" next to his mobile home on Highway 28 and proposing Bruce Crossing (population 551) in Ontonagon County as "the capital of the 51st state." A secession bill was submitted to the Legislature, and from 1983 to 1985 about 20,000 signatures were collected for a referendum on separation. That was short of the 36,000 required, but the spirit of independence lives on in the newly opened 51st State Saloon in Sault Ste. Marie.
In Ishpeming, a mining town west of here, Jim DeCaire and Joe Potila think "Yooper" should be "a thing of pride," as Mr. DeCaire put it. Twenty years ago they began composing and performing songs and patter as a duet called Da Yoopers, building a repertory with all the subtlety of a chain saw. Their titles include "I Married a Couch Dat Burps."
Despite the coarseness, Da Yoopers' emphasis on the details of Upper Peninsula life -- combat with mosquito swarms in the summer, blizzards in the long winters, and deer hunting combined with beer drinking -- has won them many fans. Part of their appeal lies in their devotion to the Upper Peninsula's collective dialect, which draws on Cornish and Italian from immigrant miners, the French of Canadian trappers and the Finnish of farmers and loggers.
The Finnish substratum is strong in the idiom some call Yoopanese, said Stewart Kingsbury, a Northern Michigan University professor, both in phrases like "let's go store" for "let's go to the store" and in the substitution of "da" for "the."
Not all inhabitants of the Upper Peninsula choose to subscribe to the crass identity promoted by Da Yoopers. "A lot of my old friends don't like it," said Fred Rydholm, a fourth-generation Yooper who has written a two-volume history of the area. Yet he recently entered into the spirit by donating a patched set of his "historical long underwear" to the musical group's reproduction of a North Woods deer camp at Ishpeming.
Kaye Hiebel, a Marquette artist, said that while outsiders thought of the U.P. as "hunting, fishing and snowmobiles," there were also "fine-craft traditions and creativity here." In April, a Northern Michigan University musical, "Haywire," about a 19th-century logging crew, was a winner in the 27th annual American College Theater Festival at the Kennedy Center in Washington.
Jim Harrison, an internationally acclaimed novelist from Michigan, has set some of his work in the Upper Peninsula, including the novella "Brown Dog," in which the title character says of the boreal forest: "The woods can be a bit strange. It takes a long time to feel you belong there, and then you never again really belong in town."

GRAPHIC: Photo: For a long time, northern Michiganders' sense of geographical isolation was especially palpable. Then, in 1957, this five-mile-long bridge across the Mackinac Straits linked the Upper Peninsula to the rest of the state. (John L. Russell for The New York Times)
 
Map shows the location of the Michigan Upper Peninsula. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (99%); LAKE SUPERIOR (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); LAKE HURON (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (99%); MICHIGAN, USA (99%); LAKE SUPERIOR (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); LAKE HURON (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; MINES AND MINING; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS ARMED FORCES (90%); COPPER MINING (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (87%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); AIR FORCES (76%); MILITARY BASES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRENDS (71%); REFERENDUMS (66%); GOVERNORS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CASINOS (55%); GAMING (54%); MOBILE HOMES (50%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: BINDER, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



265 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reports Economy Up But Not Prices

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13

 BODY:
Economic growth, while still spotty, perked up in the late summer even as inflation stayed firmly in check, two Government reports showed today.
The Labor Department said consumer prices edged up a scant one-tenth of 1 percent in August, leaving the Consumer Price Index up just 2.6 percent over the last 12 months. And price pressures have eased in recent months. The three-month compound annual rate was a mere 1.9 percent. 
 The Federal Reserve, in its periodic roundup of economic conditions across the country in what is known as the beige book, said reports from its 12 regional districts "point to some further expansion in economic activity" during the five weeks through Labor Day. "Industrial activity appears to have stabilized and in some areas may now be strengthening," the Fed found. The report added that construction had picked up in many of the districts. But "soft" sectors, like retailing and agriculture, were hurt by unusually hot and dry summer weather.
New York and Dallas were exceptions to the general pattern, with business conditions in these areas characterized as having "deteriorated" since the previous beige book report was published on Aug. 9.
The Fed surveys its districts as part of the preparation for meetings of its Federal Open Market Committee, which gathers eight times a year to set monetary policy. The next meeting is scheduled for Sept. 26.
Echoing the monthly consumer price survey, the Fed researchers also found "no clear change in underlying price pressure."
But this favorable combination of modestly faster growth and stable prices was accompanied in August by a sizable drop in average weekly earnings. After significant increases the two previous months, the August drop pulled earnings, adjusted for inflation, back below where they were 12 months earlier. One analyst, noting that many experts had referred to the sluggish economy of the early 1990's as the "jobless" recovery, said a more appropriate expression these days might be the "wageless" recovery.
The analyst, Nicholas S. Perna, chief economist for the Shawmut National Corporation in Boston, noted that the decline in real wages, for all the difficulties it had created for many families, offered an unexpected bonus. "Inflation is far less of a problem than even the optimists thought it would be," Mr. Perna said.
On Tuesday, the Labor Department reported that prices received by producers fell slightly in August, the third straight month without an increase.
With the Consumer Price Index, the Labor Department was able to calculate that real average weekly earnings in August slumped nine-tenths of 1 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis. This reflected declines in weekly hours worked and hourly earnings coupled with the loss of purchasing power from slightly higher prices. As of August, real earnings were one-tenth of 1 percent below the level a year ago.
The Fed's beige book survey found "little change in price pressures" since midsummer "and there is little apparent concern about an acceleration" in the near future.
The labor market was tight in some areas, such as for construction workers in the Richmond and San Francisco districts, but for the most part wage pressure was mild, the report found.
As for manufacturing, the slowdown reported five weeks ago seems to have leveled off, the Fed reported, with Philadelphia among the districts where it strengthened a bit. But New York was singled out as the only district where factory output continued to fall.
More than offsetting weakness in New York City-area manufacturing, however, was strength in other kinds of business. Tourism, especially from abroad, was particularly strong during the summer.
"On balance," the report said of the New York district, "growth has slowed in recent weeks," as retail sales weakened significantly and residential construction across much of New York State and northern New Jersey remained slow in July and August.
On the inflation front, a six-tenths of 1 percent decline for transportation, which represents 17 percent of the Consumer Price Index, contributed to the minimal rise in prices. Airline fares, which surged in the first half of the year, tumbled 3.5 percent last month after falling 1.3 percent in July. Gasoline prices fell an additional 2.9 percent. And the price of used cars fell for the fourth straight month. But the plunge followed a sustained period of sharp increases that left used cars 9 percent more costly than in August 1994.
Tomato prices fell 24.8 percent, reversing a June-July jump of that magnitude, to help limit the food and beverage component to a rise of two-tenths of 1 percent. Alcoholic beverages rose seven-tenths of 1 percent, the most in four and a half years.
In the "other goods and services" component, higher fall semester tuition charges at schools and colleges accounted for more than half the five-tenths of 1 percent advance, the biggest since February.
Not counting food and energy, which are subject to large swings, consumer prices climbed two-tenths of 1 percent for the fourth straight month, the Labor Department's report also showed.
For the New York metropolitan area, overall prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent after a rise of four-tenths of 1 percent in July.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Prices" shows percent change in consumer prices from 9/94 to 8/95 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (82%); BAC (LSE) (82%); 8648 (TSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF AMERICA CORP (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); US LABOR DAY (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



266 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Ebb Despite News of Low Inflation

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities ended lower yesterday as concerns that economic growth might be accelerating outweighed favorable data on inflation.
The Treasury's 30-year bond fell 8/32 , to 10422/32 , while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.52 percent, from 6.50 percent on Tuesday.
 
 Government reports issued this week showed that consumer and wholesale prices were rising at a slower rate than they were earlier in the year and that annual inflation was running at less than 3 percent, a level many economists see as comfortable. Yesterday, the Labor Department said the Consumer Price Index rose only one-tenth of 1 percent in August.
Although the price reports were bullish for the market, traders were concerned that the retail sales report due today would show robust growth.
Holders of fixed-income investments fear strong economic growth because they see it as leading to higher inflation, which erodes the value of their assets.
"The inflation numbers are basically playing second fiddle to anxiety about a strong retail sales number," said Alfred Roth, trading floor manager at the First Chicago Corporation. "The feeling is that retail sales are going to be strong because of strong car sales."
Economists generally expect retail sales to show a gain of seven-tenths of 1 percent for August, but just one-tenth of 1 percent when excluding the automobile sector.
A strong retail sales report, which would indicate that the economy is bouncing back after a sluggish first half of the year, would also make the Federal Reserve less likely to lower interest rates anytime soon, analysts said.
"Over all, the C.P.I. was very market-friendly, but people don't think inflation is a problem right now," said Patrick Dimick, Treasury analyst at CS First Boston.
The price index for August was held down by declines in gasoline and other transportation prices. Excluding the volatile food and energy prices, the index rose two-tenths of 1 percent.
Bond prices rose after the report, but the gains were brief. The two-year note closed down 2/32 , to a price of 10012/32 , while its yield rose to 5.79 percent. The 10-year note fell 6/32 , to 10212/32 , to yield 6.18 percent.
Yesterday, the Fed released its latest survey of national economic conditions, the so-called beige book. The report said that the economy kept expanding in most parts of the country in August and that there was no clear indication of upward price pressures. It also said consumer spending was sluggish in August.
The survey will be used by members of the Fed's policy-setting group, the Federal Open Market Committee, when it meets on Sept. 26 to consider interest rates.
Analysts said the bright picture painted by the beige book and comments yesterday by several Federal Reserve officials showed that the central bank was pleased with the economy's performance. That view, they said, casts doubt on a rate cut anytime soon.
In the municipal market, prices finished flat to 1/4 point lower as institutional investors put $500 million to $600 million of bonds up for sale in the secondary market.
Investment-grade corporate bond prices closed in line with Treasuries as the market again focused on new issues. Reebok International, Avalon Properties and Royal Caribbean Cruises issued a combined $350 million of debt.
Israel priced a $500 million debt issue, guaranteed by a United States Government agency.
Junk-bond prices were up slightly on weak trading as the market awaited $2.5 billion of new issues expected next week, traders said. Another $3.5 billion or more is scheduled to price soon after, traders added.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); RETAIL SALES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); WHOLESALE PRICES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); GASOLINE PRICES (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); FOOD PRICES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



267 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Without a two-war script, arms spending could really be cut.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
THE fight over military spending is heating up as the House and Senate duel over funds for key weapons and President Clinton threatens to veto any appropriations bill that includes money for arms the Pentagon says it does not want.
Well, that is the standard story, anyway. And it is indeed true that the futures of three gee-whiz weapons systems -- the B-2 Stealth bomber, the Seawolf attack submarine and a pared-down Star Wars missile defense -- are under attack by deficit fighters. "Everyone is rummaging around in the basement now, looking for programs to trash," said William Hartung, a senior research fellow at the New School's World Policy Institute. 
 "But connoisseurs of the politics of denial need not despair," Mr. Hartung added. The few billion dollars that are on the line are petty cash compared with the quarter-trillion budgeted annually to be able to fight two wars simultaneously -- a relic of cold war planning that no elected official is questioning.
It is easy to work up a righteous lather over the current weapons debate, which has all the Alice-in-Wonderland qualities of the earlier theological dispute over whether 10,000 nuclear warheads were sufficient to deter Soviet aggression. With 20 B-2 bombers already on order for $2.2 billion each -- each nearly the price of a nuclear aircraft carrier -- and serious questions being raised about the plane's stealthiness, support for building more is limited to a coalition of weapons contractors and members of Congress who have overdosed on Tom Clancy novels.
Much the same can be said for the third Seawolf submarine, priced at $1.5 billion, which is being rationalized as a means of keeping Connecticut and Virginia boat builders on the technological edge and Bill Clinton in the White House. "Even liberals now see defense spending as the form of pork least likely to be challenged," suggested Mr. Hartung, whose critical commentary on military budgeting appears in the fall issue of the World Policy Journal.
In fact, the whole arms debate is taking place at the margin of reality. What really drives spending, argues Lawrence Korb of the Brookings Institution, is the underlying doctrine that dictates a very large and mobile military capable of fighting two wars the size of the Persian Gulf war at the same time.
This policy was born in the last years of the Bush Administration, when the Soviet empire was collapsing, and the chances that Russia would commit the Red Army to a conventional war with any of America's allies was receding rapidly. Gen. Colin L. Powell, then Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, imagined worst-case developments that conveniently justified outlays and personnel equal to late cold war levels.
To be sure, the $250 billion budget for the two-war plan is far less in inflation-adjusted terms than defense spending in the Reagan years. But $250 billion, Mr. Korb notes, is still more than the combined spending for the world's next 10 largest military establishments. Is it really needed?
Not according to Gen. Merrill McPeak, the recently retired Air Force Chief of Staff, who pointed out that America has fought major conventional wars just three times in the last 45 years -- and never two at a time. Indeed, the closer one looks at the two-war plan, the less realistic it seems. It is difficult to imagine two Iraq-like rogue states risking wars that America felt compelled to enter. On the other hand, it is difficult to imagine that America's next foes would cooperate with the Pentagon by leaving themselves wide open to American power.
What's driving this nondebate over arms strategy, Mr. Korb argues, is the peculiar politics of the moment. "During the Reagan years, Democratic Congresses tried to chop away at spending," he said. But with the White House occupied by a Democrat who is eager to protect himself from charges of being soft on security, and Congressional moderates from both parties unprepared to take further whacks at jobs in the military industry, "the spending bar has been set so high that there is nothing really left to argue about," Mr. Korb said.
The precondition for changing policy, Mr. Korb suggests, is a Republican in the White House who is less vulnerable to ideological attack. If Richard M. Nixon could go to China, he reasons, perhaps Bob Dole could trim the military budget to $200 billion. Mr. Hartung said $160 billion was a realistic target for one big war plus limited police actions.
Another possibility is that military cuts will become the path of least resistance for a Congress caught between a pledge to balance the budget and 40 million older people who think Medicare is the greatest invention since Metamucil. But Mr. Hartung is not betting on it. "Defense contractors have moved quickly to make friends with the new Republican majority," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMIES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); LIBERALISM (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); BOAT BUILDING (65%); RELIGION (51%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



268 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
Mr. Rockefeller Regrets

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

 BODY:
This has not been an easy year for David Rockefeller. The Chase Manhattan Bank, long associated with his family, has been swallowed up by Chemical Bank, forcing Mr. Rockefeller to expressions of gratitude that its name would be kept. Now Rockefeller Center is in financial ruins, up for grabs in a bidding war. In February, Mr. Rockefeller had the unpleasant experience of flying to Japan to plead with the people to whom he sold the world's most prestigious office complex not to declare bankruptcy. But before the meeting began, he fell on the sidewalk and broke his leg.
In financial terms, however, the Chase deal has strengthened the value of the substantial Rockefeller holdings in that bank, and the Rockefeller Center debacle has left the Rockefeller family with a huge financial return. The bankruptcy flowed, after all, from the fact that the Rockefellers managed to sell Rockefeller Center at an inflated price -- not once, but in effect twice. In 1985, the family mortgaged it for $1.3 billion, pocketing an estimated $300 million for themselves. A few years later it sold 80 percent of the property itself to Mitsubishi Estate in Tokyo for $1.4 billion. As a result, $1.7 billion was reaped from properties that are now said to be worth a fraction of that sum. 
 History will likely judge the collapse of Rockefeller Center as, among other things, a milestone in the transfer of the family fortune from the patriarch's generation to the "cousins," many of them restless to cash in on their patrimony.
The first fateful decision in the saga came in 1985, with the establishment by the Rockefellers of an independent publicly held real estate investment trust, which raised money from the public and then lent $1.3 billion to the Rockefeller family using the center as collateral. Tens of thousands of small investors put their money in the trust, many no doubt assuming that the Rockefeller name was a guarantee that it would be safe and secure.
At the end of the last decade, Mitsubishi -- the wealthiest company in the wealthiest industry in Japan -- bought 80 percent of Rockefeller Center for $1.4 billion. Along with the property, of course, came the obligation to service the earlier $1.3 billion mortgage. Plenty of experts thought the price was too high, but Mitsubishi wanted to assert some sort of manifest destiny. The company already owned virtually all of the Marunouchi district, which is the heart of Tokyo's financial district.
But the laws of gravity asserted themselves in the 1990's. Even the Rockefellers and Mitsubishi were not immune to the collapse of real estate values in New York and the end of the "bubble economy" in Japan, which was built on inflated stock and real estate prices. At Rockefeller Center, leases for many of the most prestigious tenants expired in 1994. Instead of being renewed at the high rents projected years earlier, the leases renewed at discount rents insufficient to pay for operating an aging building and servicing a gargantuan mortgage. As a result, the value of shares in the real estate investment trust plummeted. So did Mr. Rockefeller's standing among the trust investors and the Japanese.
Mr. Rockefeller argues that the world's premier commercial address could have been saved from bankruptcy. But Mitsubishi concluded that it was staring into a bottomless pit, and that it was time to cut its losses at the $2 billion threshold. As with so many star-crossed deals between Americans and Japanese of the 1980's, the Rockefeller Center sale was built on arrogance and the players' inflated view of each other's intentions.
The Rockefellers were surprised that the Japanese would be willing to lose face and cut their losses. The Japanese lost faith in David Rockefeller when he tried to work out a plan to save the property from bankruptcy without putting up more of his own family's money.
With bankruptcy, the real estate investment trust owns Rockefeller Center now. It is anybody's guess which outsiders, if any, will join in that ownership by investing, restructuring the mortgage and taking other steps to make the property viable again. Maybe it will be the group led by Sam Zell of Chicago and the Walt Disney Company. Maybe it will be someone else.
In 1911, John D. Rockefeller's business manager, Frederick T. Gates, famously warned his patron to move fast to diversify his vast fortune. "If you do not," he said, "it will crush you, and your children, and your children's children." As the century closes, this most amazing of America's wealthy families is still ruthlessly heeding the lesson, without much sentiment for the monuments that its wealth once created. STEVEN R. WEISMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: RCP (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC); BANKRUPTCIES; ROCKEFELLER FAMILY INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); FAMILY (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (66%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R DAVID ROCKEFELLER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



269 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Stop Computer Slots

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
At last: a candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination has come up with a moral issue that the next President and Congress can actually do something about.
The issue is state-sponsored gambling, a $40 billion-a-year cancer ravaging society, corrupting public officials and becoming the fastest growing teen-age addiction. 
 "The spread of gambling," Senator Richard Lugar told the Christian Coalition, "is a measure of the moral erosion taking place in our country. . . . It says that if you play enough, you can hit the jackpot and be freed from the discipline of self-support through a job or the long commitment to ongoing education."
In New York last week, Mario Cuomo's tawdriest legacy -- a form of keno known as "Quick Draw" -- introduced casino-style gambling to teen-agers at candy stores, using computer terminals to lure kids into shooting modern craps.
In Connecticut, the race for a casino in Bridgeport is down to bidding between Mirage Resorts (an apt name for the gambler's goal) and a recently re-formed "tribe" of Indians called the Pequots, whose chiefs are turning aboriginal Americans into a nation of croupiers.
In Mississippi, the money spent on gambling last year exceeded all the taxable retail sales in the state. Across the nation, under the fake cover of "supporting education," gambling interests offer a down-and-dirty fix to weak legislators.
It's about time someone running for President put this national rip-off on the nation's agenda. Lugar rightly slams adult hypocrisy: "We cannot tolerate the 'get rich quick' symbolism of gambling, while pleading with our children to avoid other 'tosses of the dice' that lead to unhealthy living and destructive behavior."
His challenge is suitable for the Christian Coalition: Its members may not be able to legislate morality, but here is where they can campaign to stop legislating immorality. A family-values movement to turn the tide of gambling is an issue whose moral moment has come.
Representative Frank Wolf, the Virginia Republican, has offered a bill to establish a National Commission on the Impact of Gambling. Senators Lugar and Paul Simon have a matching bill in the Senate. The commission would provide unbiased answers to "How does gambling affect suicide and crime rates among juveniles? What effect does a casino have on a city's economy? Who loses the money that makes gambling such a profitable business, and who then has to support the losers' families?"
The gambling lobby does not want those questions asked, much less answered. The American Gaming Association has been launched in Washington D.C., with a lobbying kitty of $2 million for openers, to block the Wolf-Lugar bill. ("Gaming" is what gamblers want us to call their racket because it connotes "play"; but when you lose the milk money, you have gambled, not "gamed," it away.)
Chief lobbyist for the gamblers is Frank Fahrenkopf, the Nevada lawyer who was chairman of the Republican National Committee. Frank got me coveted floor passes to several national conventions, and I wish he could find a less despicable way to make a living, such as representing tobacco interests or lobbying for an end to sanctions on Saddam Hussein.
His shock troops to block the gambling probe will be the Gambling Caucus in the House, led by a freshman from Nevada, John Ensign; the veteran Barbara Vucanovich, also of that gambler's paradise, and New Jersey's Frank LoBiondo.
The hearing on Wolf's bid to lift the lid on state-sponsored immorality will be held before the Judiciary Committee on Sept. 29. Chairman Henry Hyde, hero of the Christian Coalition for his principled stand against abortion, takes a straddle on this issue: "I am not a fan of, nor a zealot against, gambling," he tells me, adding with a sigh, "a little hope springs eternal." As things stand, the bill will die in committee.
Unless moralists -- including most particularly those in the Christian Coalition -- get the lead out of their vestments. Is the Republican Party to be the party of gambling, corrupting the very family values it preaches? Clinton is no help; his amoral approach is to add a Federal gambling tax to state taxes, which only puts the Feds in bed with the gamblers.
Get the government to stop promoting gambling. Listen to Lugar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN GAMING ASSN AMERICAN GAMING ASSOCIATION (59%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (57%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN GAMING ASSN CHRISTIAN COALITION (57%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PUBLIC OPINION; ETHICS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GAMING (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); LOTTERIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); FAMILY (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); RETAIL SALES (68%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (68%); CRIME RATES (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN) DICK LUGAR (89%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); FRANK R WOLF (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



270 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Port Authority Won't Soon Abandon Economic Forecast Role

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "New York Is, or Was, a Model for London" (Op-Ed, Sept. 8), Tony Travers chastises the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for announcing that it will not be raising tolls and fares, claiming this will lead to a diminution in the agency's economic forecasting, one of its functions. 
 Leaving aside the amusing notion that London has a developing economy and has to take its lead from New York, the real contradiction in Mr. Travers's article is that the Port Authority is doing exactly what Mr. Travers finds so enlightening for London, and seems to think that the New York-New Jersey region is abandoning. He writes:
"Paradoxically, at just the time New York and New Jersey officials may be scaling back their valuable research base at the Port Authority, London is trying to create just such a centralized structure for economic analysis. The Port Authority's operation is a model."
Although "consolidating" is a more appropriate word, centralizing research efforts is integral to our reorganization. It is part of our strategy to adapt the agency to changing business demands.
The Port Authority has six departments claiming economic analysis as a major part of their mission. While we are eliminating duplications and redundancy, we are evaluating the importance of the economic analysis function by placing it in the Office of Corporate Policy and Planning reporting directly to the executive director.
Mr. Travers notes, "For many years, New York has had to work hard to keep businesses from fleeing to other areas with lower taxes." Yes, and adding to transportation costs with excessively high user fees doesn't contribute to regional economic growth either.
I'm not exactly sure why Mr. Travers takes such great interest in the affairs of the Port Authority, but perhaps his research group at the London School of Economics should factor the combined burdens of taxation and user fees into their economic forecasts. Maybe New York is a model for London after all.
 
JOHN J. HALEY JR.
First Deputy Executive Director
Port Authority of New York
and New Jersey
New York, Sept. 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (92%); PORT AUTHORITY (96%); NEW YORK (94%); LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY (96%); NEW YORK (94%); LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CITIES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TRENDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); 

PERSON: HALEY, JOHN J JR; TRAVERS, TONY JOHN J HALEY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



271 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Medicare Logic Needs a Closer Look

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Speaker Newt Gingrich (letter, Sept. 10) euphemistically calls the Republican proposal to cut $270 billion out of Medicare "an increase, not a reduction." Mr. Gingrich's reasoning, however, is inconsistent with arguments he has made in the past. 
 For years, Newt Gingrich railed against Democratic proposals to "cut" the defense budget. The budget was growing every year, although not always at the rate of inflation. Using the Speaker's Medicare logic, Democrats weren't cutting defense at all, but merely slowing its rate of growth.
Nevertheless, year afer year Mr. Gingrich screamed that Democrats were crippling America's national defense.
Another example of the Speaker's double-talk is in the area of tax cuts, cuts that he loves to talk about. Under the House Republican "tax cut" proposal, the American people's tax bill will be $450 billion larger in 2002 than it will be next year.
Again, using the Speaker's logic, this "cut" is actually a massive tax increase. Naturally, Mr. Gingrich hails this as a cut.
Newt Gingrich should be consistent. His verbal manipulation does not help the American people understand the changes they will face if Congress cuts Medicare. Simply put, when you spend less, you get less.
The proposed Medicare cuts will mean higher monthly payments, fewer services and closed hospitals.
 
CHARLES E. SCHUMER
Member of Congress, 10th Dist, N.Y.
Washington, Sept. 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); TAX INCREASES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INFLATION (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (94%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



272 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: On Vietnam, Kennedy White House Flew Blind

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "McNamara's War, and Mine" by Louis G. Sarris (Op-Ed, Sept. 5): 
 (1) On page 32 of "In Retrospect" I wrote: "When the Berlin crisis occurred in 1961, and during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962, President Kennedy was able to turn to senior people like Llewellyn Thompson, Charles Bohlen and George Kennan, who knew the Soviets intimately. There were no senior officials in the Pentagon or State Department with comparable knowledge of Southeast Asia."
Mr. Sarris writes, "This statement is untrue." But it is he who is incorrect.
Mr. Thompson, Mr. Bohlen and Mr. Kennan had studied Soviet history, culture and politics for decades, and had associated socially and professionally with the top Russian leaders, including Nikita S. Khrushchev. We had no counterparts with respect to South Vietnam, North Vietnam or China. As a result, during the period just before and after the overthrow of President Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam, we were flying blind.
The erroneous decisions were ours, and we must accept the responsibility for them, but the absence of experienced senior advisers helps explain the errors.
(2) Mr. Sarris states: "The basic problem was the unwillingness of McNamara and other top policy makers to accept the relevance of information with which they personally disagreed."
I don't believe the record supports that judgment. On the contrary, the President, Dean Rusk, McGeorge Bundy, Bill Bundy, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, and I were all skeptical of much of the information we received, not because we questioned the integrity of the originators of the reports, but because we doubted their ability to penetrate and understand the complex political, economic, social and military environment and actions they were reporting.
(3) Mr. Sarris states that just before the assassination of President Kennedy, "the groundwork was being laid for our tragic escalation of the war."
I believe the record shows that far from planning an escalation, President Kennedy had decided -- and publicly announced on Oct. 2, 1963 -- that the United States would plan to withdraw its military forces by the end of 1965 and would start by withdrawing 1,000 (of our 16,000 men) by the end of 1963.
I state on page 79 that the debate in the National Security Council "reflected a total lack of consensus over where we stood in meeting our objectives." But the President nonetheless authorized the beginning of withdrawal, believing that either our training and logistical support led to the progress claimed or, if it had not, additional training would not change the situation and, in either case, we should plan to withdraw.
(4) With respect to the coup that overthrew President Diem, Mr. Sarris appears to be saying that some Pentagon officials fixed responsibility on the State Department and, in particular, on his analysis. That may have been the view of some Defense officials, but it was not and is not mine. I believe that United States support of the overthrow of President Diem was a mistake, but I hold the senior officials -- the President, Dean Rusk and me -- responsible, not Mr. Sarris.
 
ROBERT S. McNAMARA
Washington, Sept. 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (57%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; VIET NAM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (57%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HISTORY (73%); ASSASSINATION (72%); COUPS (72%); 

PERSON: MCNAMARA, ROBERT S; SARRIS, LOUIS G JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



273 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Inflation News Lifts Stocks Into Record Territory
 The stock market surged again, buoyed by several Government reports indicating that inflation remained in check. All the major indexes set records, but winners barely topped losers. 
 The Dow industrials rose 18.31 points, to 4,765,52, and the S.& P. 500-stock index was up 2.26 points, to 578.77. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 2.40 points, to 1,067.40. [Page D8.]
 The dollar climbed to a 15-month high, trading as high as 103.75 yen in Tokyo early today before retreating. [D15.]
 
Justice Department Requests More Data on Disney-ABC Deal
 Walt Disney and Capital Cities/ABC disclosed that the Justice Department had asked for more information on their proposed $19 billion merger. Some analysts were surprised, but Disney said it did not expect the request to derail the deal. [D7.]
 
Judge Rules Against Dow Corning
 Dow Corning's Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing cannot shield its parent companies, the Dow Chemical Company and the Corning Corporation, from thousands of lawsuits totaling billions of dollars on breast implants, a Federal judge ruled in Detroit. [D8.]
 
Compromise in Banking Bill
 The chairmen of the House Banking and Rules committees reached a tentative compromise to eliminate one obstacle to the removal of legislative barriers that separate the banking and securities industries. [D4.]
 
Company Accused in Fraud
 The S.E.C. accused Qualified Pensions of Glendale, Calif., and its president, Jerry G. Allison, of violating Federal securities laws and misappropriating at least $4.5 million from the retirement accounts of more than 14,500 savers across the country. [D2.]
 
Hospitals in Antitrust Lawsuits
 In the first antitrust lawsuits of their kind, the Justice Department charged hospitals and doctors in Danbury, Conn., and St. Joseph, Mo., with illegal price-fixing to keep out lower-cost managed care companies. [B6.]
 
Dependent-Care Project Expanded
 Expanding a program that was started three years ago, 21 of the nation's largest corporations, including AT&T and Citicorp, will contribute to a $100 million project to help employees care for dependents. [D4.]
 
Arrests in Computer Pornography
 The F.B.I. made at least a dozen arrests and searched 120 homes nationwide, ending a two-year investigation into the use of America Online to distribute child pornography and arrange sex with children. [A1.]
 
Battle Over K.F.C. in India
 India's first Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant was closed by local authorities in Bangalore, then swiftly reopened under a court order, as nationalists pressed efforts to curb the entry of foreign corporations. City authorities cited what was termed as an infringement of Indian health rules after a local farmers' group protested. [D5.]
 
Pledge on a Lilco Plan
 The new chairman of the Long Island Power Authority pledged to meet Gov. George E. Pataki's 12-week deadline to develop a plan to lower electricity rates on Long Island and to dismantle Long Island Lighting. [B4.]
 
New Effort in Sports Ads
 TV viewers who have become used to rotating billboards behind home plate and at basketball scorers' tables may soon see electronically inserted ads that appear to be part of the actual background. Advertising. [D7.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "TODAY"
 
Retail Sales
 
August figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
Expected: +0.7%
 
Federal Express
 
First-quarter earnings due at the market's close.
Expected: $1.16 a share
 
Table: "YESTERDAY"

Dow industrials	4,765.52	+18.31	30-yr. Treasury yield	6.52%	+0.02	The dollar	102.60 yen	+1.44	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (70%); DOW (SWX) (69%); DOW (NYSE) (69%); DOW (LSE) (69%); 4850 (TSE) (69%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (70%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (50%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (57%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (70%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (69%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); DOW CORNING CORP (56%); ABC INC (56%); AOL INC (51%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (57%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); CARTELS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); CHEMICALS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); MISAPPROPRIATION (74%); MERGERS (73%); JUDGES (73%); BUSINESS TORTS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (68%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (65%); PORNOGRAPHY (65%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (64%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (63%); CHILD ABUSE (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (60%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (53%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



274 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
WESTINGHOUSE GETS FINANCING FOR CBS PURCHASE

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
The Westinghouse Electric Corporation has signed loan agreements with the Chemical Banking Corporation and J. P. Morgan & Co. to pay for Westinghouse's $5.4 billion purchase of CBS Inc. The loan deals beat deadlines set in the buyout pact. Westinghouse, a Pittsburgh-based broadcasting and industrial company must still get approval from the Federal Communications Commission and CBS shareholders, and it expects to do so by year's end. The Justice Department raised no antitrust objections. CBS owns the CBS television network as well as TV and radio stations. Westinghouse owns TV and radio stations. The banks are earning fees of about 2 percent of the loan commitments and interest rates of 1.75 percentage points over certain bank rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS811118 OTHER AUTOMOTIVE MECHANICAL & ELECTRICAL REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (93%); SIC7539 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CBS INC; WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; MORGAN, J P, & CO CBS CORP (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CO LLC (93%); CBS BROADCASTING INC (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS INC; WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; MORGAN, J P, & CO FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEVISION; CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (87%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (86%); SHAREHOLDERS (84%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (83%); INTEREST RATES (82%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995



275 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Urawa Journal;
To Pinch Yen: Freeze Rice and Save Bath Water

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: URAWA, Japan

 BODY:
Yumiko Sakurai violates a cardinal principle of Japanese cooking by refrigerating unused rice from one meal and then reheating it in the microwave. Compared with keeping rice warm in a rice-cooker, this saves about eight cents a meal.
Mrs. Sakurai also keeps a thermos of iced tea on the counter in the summer, so her children will not keep opening the refrigerator. And when a sale comes, she buys a year's worth of clothing for them 
 It's not that Mrs. Sakurai has suddenly become poor, but that she worries she could. Just a few years ago, Japan was a country so dedicated to extravagance that some restaurants even offered meals topped with gold dust, a tribute to corporate expense accounts, and executives were picking up Armani suits and patches of American real estate as if they were stuffing a gift bag with baubles. National spending soared.
But now, after several years of near-zero growth, many Japanese are increasingly anxious about their future. The response: cut costs and sock away money once again.
"I turn off all the lights when I go out," Mrs. Sakurai said. "I also use the leftover bath water for the laundry, pour it into the plants or splash it on the garden."
Frugality is sweeping the society. Magazines compete to offer suggestions for saving, telling readers that microwave cooking is half the cost of gas-burner cooking, or recommending baths rather than showers, or using large cooking pans (boiling water in a 9 1/2-inch pan costs 3.9 cents, compared with 4.5 cents for a 6 1/4-inch pan), or using a smaller television (the cost of electricity for a 14-inch television is half that for a 25-inch one).
As people save money -- in ways as minimal as reheating rice, as substantial as delaying construction of a new house -- those yen are adding up, reversing a downward trend in savings here. Household savings now total $480 billion a year, about two and a half times the amount that Americans save a year, and household spending is at a 20-year low.
The eight cents saved by reheating rice does not always end up in the bank account. But such cost-cutting tends to increase savings, and household savings rates are rising in Japan, even though they are still lower than they were decades ago.
This year, they have climbed to 21 percent of disposable income, from about 18.5 percent four years ago, compared with under 5 percent in the United States. It is a habit of parsimony that will help fortify the Japanese economy in the long run because those billions are recycled into money-making investment projects throughout the international economy.
Savings also cut domestic consumption and thus help drive the trade surplus, and so the more cash Japanese stash in their accounts, the more persistent the trade surplus is likely to be with America.
In Japan, women often control the household purse strings, and one sign of the times is the dwindling allowances that wives give their husbands.
Takashi Nishimura, a 43-year-old stockbroker, saw his salary fall this year, and his wife took drastic measures. She cut his allowance from $520 to $208 a month to help pay the mortgage, and this forced him to curb his lavish ways.
"I used to get 50,000 yen a month last year, but now she gives me only 20,000 yen," Mr. Nishimura said. "Instead of eating traditional Japanese meals at Ginza, I eat meat kebabs at cheaper places in Shimbashi."
Such money monopolization in the home often leaves 47-year-old Ishii Tsutomu with hardly any change to spare. As he took his wife and their two daughters shopping at a discount store in Urawa, it was clear who had control.
Mr. Tsutomu had only 2,000 yen, or about $20 in his wallet. His wife, Sumie, makes him a lunch box every day and gives him about $100 a month to spend, with an extra $1,000 at the end of the year for holiday parties.
Mrs. Tsutomu also deposits some savings at a local department store which gives her interest in return for her purchasing her children's school uniforms there every year.
Of course, the sacrifice goes only so far. The Tsutomus leave their air conditioners on at night, and Mrs. Tsutomu still boils her potatoes on a gas stove.
For 47-year-old Tetsuo Senmyo, a salaryman in the road-building business, saving means spending $350 on a golfing-and-drinking session only once a month, instead of twice. While he still goes on drinking outings with his friends, he has cut down, partly to offset a decline in his overtime income.
"I take my allowance only sparingly," said Mr. Senmyo, as he eyed a shiny new golf club on sale in a store. "I hold back because my income is lower, and I give it all to my wife."
Not all men are so generous. Mutako Kikuki, a 55-year-old cafeteria worker, saves by giving her unwanted leftovers to her neighbor, who reciprocates. Mrs. Kikuki's husband, a construction worker, lost his bonus and she can barely meet their daily living expenses on his salary.
She would like to cut his $300-a-month allowance to zero, but hell would break loose if she did.
"It's unthinkable that he would save any of that!" she said in disgust. "He has no intention whatsoever to save. I've been working and struggling all my life. My kids are grown up and working, and now, when I think of the future -- well, whatever will be will be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Japanese household is turning frugal again after a period of free spending, and discount stores are benefiting. Shoppers leaving Daikuma, a thrift store in Urawa, with their purchases. (Sheryl WuDunn/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; URAWA (JAPAN); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TRENDS (88%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSUMPTION (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL YUMIKO SAKURAI (78%); ISHII TSUTOMU (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



276 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: The Dow Soars Over 4,800 for the First Time

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Blue chip stocks continued to soar yesterday, pushing the bellwether Dow Jones industrial average past the psychologically important 4,800 level for the first time.
The Dow's upward movement this year has been relentless since initially piercing the 4,000 barrier on Feb. 23. It first hit 4,500 on June 16, 4,600 on July 5 and 4,700 on July 7. In the last three weeks alone, this average of 30 blue chip stocks has risen 4.7 percent. The Dow industrials closed yesterday at 4,801.80, up 36.28 points. 
 "Optimism that has been built into the system causes the public to gravitate more to financial assets than to alternative investments," said Ricky Harrington, senior vice president of Interstate/Johnson Lane in Charlotte, N.C. "The fundamental background is one of stable interest rates and slow growth."
Mr. Harrington added, "Any time the market is up 36 points, I consider it a volatile day."
The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index also reached a record, adding 4.84 points to close at 583.61 and marking the eighth consecutive day it has achieved a new high. However, investors moved out of many high-tech issues and the Nasdaq composite index eased 0.44 point, to 1,066.96.
Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange surpassed decliners by 1,327 to 969. Big Board volume remained heavy, with a turnover of 382.9 million shares, a tad less than the 384.4-million-share turnover on Wednesday.
Before the stock market opened, the Commerce Department reported that retail sales increased a smaller-than-expected six-tenths of a percent in August, and bonds immediately surged on the news. The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond was up 27/32 for the day; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 6.46 percent -- a 19-month low -- from 6.52 percent on Wednesday.
Financial stocks that do well in a low-interest-rate environment were among yesterday's big gainers. Citicorp rose 1 5/8, to 69 3/8; Nationsbank, 1 to 65 3/4, and J. P. Morgan, 2 1/8, to 78 1/4.
The regional telephone operating companies also advanced, in keeping with the expectation that the Federal Communications Commission would let them compete in providing more telecommunications services. SBC Communications increased 1 1/2, to 53 3/8; BellSouth gained 2, to 72; Bell Atlantic rose 1 5/8, to 60 3/8, and Ameritech added 5/8, to 51 5/8.
The technology sector's loss of the market leadership it previously enjoyed became evident as some of the industry's best-known names slumped. Apple Computer dropped 2 3/8, to 40, with Paine Webber projecting third-quarter earnings below the consensus estimate. Microsoft fell 1 1/4, to 94 7/8; Intel lost 1 3/16, to 63 11/16; Oracle fell 1 1/8, to 44 7/8, and Micron dropped 3 1/2, to 89 5/8. I.B.M., continuing its recent slide, gave up 1 1/4, closing at 93 3/8.
Circuit City Stores declined 1 1/4, to 32 7/8, after announcing that profits for the quarter ended Aug. 31 were below analysts' estimates. Other retailers that closed on the down side were Sears, Roebuck, off 1/8, to 36 1/4; Home Depot, down 1 1/4, to 38 5/8, and Lowe's Companies, off 1, to 31 3/4.
Intuit, which said that it planned to sell an updated version of its Quicken software next month for use by bank customers in home banking, jumped 3 3/4, to 47. Hilton Hotels, which said late on Wednesday that its third-quarter net income would be flat or lower than a year earlier, gave up 2 3/4, to 61 1/4.
Today will be a "triple witching" day when futures and options on stock indexes and options on stocks expire simultaneously. Orders to buy or sell large amounts of stocks are expected, which could create unusual volatility in the market.
In Tokyo yesterday, stocks climbed to their highest point in more than seven months, as the stronger dollar bolstered the earnings prospects of Japanese exporters. The Nikkei average of 225 issues gained 144.29 points, or 0.78 percent, to close at 18,758.55. Japanese financial markets are closed today for a national holiday.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (81%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (81%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BONDS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SALES FIGURES (75%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



277 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Peace in Blindness

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
The hate-filled words of former detective Mark Fuhrman shocked Americans when they were heard at the O. J. Simpson trial two weeks ago. But they should do more than shock us. They should make us look into ourselves and face the tenacious reality of racism in our country.
The problem is not just Mark Fuhrman or the Los Angeles police or those other police forces that still manifest bigotry. It is the vast range of obstacles that black Americans must overcome to get an equal chance in life. 
 The infant death rate is twice as high for black infants as for white in this country. From birth, large numbers of blacks face the daunting odds of poor families, poor schools, joblessness, victimization by criminals, desolate surroundings.
But it is not only the underclass that suffers. Middle-class blacks feel the sting of a more subtle, even unknowing racism.
In too many of us there is often a buried assumption that blacks are likely to be less able, less accomplished. Acquaintance overcomes the presumption. But the burden is on blacks to prove that they are equal to whites.
Overt discrimination has been greatly reduced in this country. The Supreme Court, the civil rights movement and Congress ended official segregation and the exclusion of blacks from the political process in the South. The venom of a Fuhrman is embarrassing to nearly everyone.
But black Americans still face the possibility of prejudice or condescension every day of their lives. The psychic strain can only be imagined by the rest of us.
How strange, then, is the dominant message we get from television, movies and advertising these days on the subject of race. In defiance of reality, we are told that race relations are getting better and better in the United States.
That feel-good message is described and dissected in the current Harper's Magazine by Benjamin DeMott. He shows how a long list of contemporary films, from "Pulp Fiction" to "Forrest Gump," portray noble relationships between blacks and whites. Advertising, he says, routinely shows "black and white models at cordial ease with one another."
In showing that good relations are possible between black and white, these portrayals exercise a kind of positive leadership. But their larger message, Mr. DeMott says, is that good feelings are "eradicating racial differences" -- and there "the comfortable majority tells itself a fatuous untruth." In fact, racial differences are not lessening; and even social relationships are rare.
If it were only a fatuous impression, it would not matter so much. But the idea that our society is no longer troubled by racism has been taken up by judges and politicians as a justification for stopping efforts to repair the damage done to blacks.
Thus the Supreme Court last term put tight limits on affirmative action and struck down a Congressional redistricting that gave the substantial number of blacks in Georgia their first realistic chance, after years of political exclusion, to elect a black Representative. Thus Bob Dole and Pete Wilson, longtime supporters of affirmative action, suddenly and cynically oppose it.
To his great credit, President Clinton has not turned his coat. In one of his finest speeches as President, he said last July that we must still systematically work to open the doors of education and employment to those who have "experienced longstanding and persistent discrimination."
By the mid-1960's, Mr. DeMott writes, we had apparently overturned the idea that some people are more human than others. He expected, he says, a recognition that "when one race deprives another of its humanity for centuries, those who have done the depriving are obligated to do what they can to restore the humanity of the deprived."
Instead, today, we are closing our eyes to the reality of unfairness and division in America. We refuse to see, as Mr. DeMott accurately puts it, that, "broken out by race, the results of every social tabulation from unemployment to life expectancy add up to a chronicle of atrocity." Somehow we in the white majority have persuaded ourselves that we can find peace in blindness -- as if, in the end, we were not going to have to live with its results.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: HARPER'S MAGAZINE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; BLACKS; DISCRIMINATION RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); INFANT MORTALITY (70%); POLITICS (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); REDISTRICTING (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); FILM (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; DEMOTT, BENJAMIN ORENTHAL JAMES 'O J' SIMPSON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



278 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar's Recent Rise Is Halted Following Some Profit Taking

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar eased yesterday as a bout of profit taking set in after a run-up this week that had pushed the currency to a 15-month high against the yen.
The dollar has enjoyed a huge rally, smashing through the important psychological level of 100 yen. The momentum continued overnight in Asia when it soared to around 103.80, the highest level since June 1994. But a feeling that the dollar might have appreciated a bit too quickly prompted some traders to take profits. 
 "There is a sense in the market that the dollar's advance has been much more rapid than most people expected and that we may be entering a period of consolidation ahead of the Sept. 20 fiscal package by the Japanese," said Marc Chandler, a senior analyst at Deutsche Morgan & Grenfell.
Also, a holiday in Japan today in observance of Respect for the Aged Day helped prompt some traders who had been heavily buying up dollars to move to the sidelines.
"We have made a fantastic rise in the dollar versus the yen and much of the rise has been predicated on Bank of Japan buying during Asian hours," said Kevin Harris, an international economist at MCM Currency Watch. "There is no reason to go long into the close if the biggest buyer in the market won't be there tomorrow."
The Japanese are expected to disclose a fiscal stimulus package aimed at reviving the country's troubled economy. Many traders believe that could help spur demand for American exports to Japan, which could lift demand for dollars.
In late trading yesterday the dollar slipped to 102.40 yen from 102.60 Wednesday. It was also softer at 1.4866 German marks from a seven-month high of 1.4927 reached on Wednesday.
Also, a report on the Japanese trade balance is expected on Monday morning before currency dealings get under way in New York. Because that report could potentially affect views of the dollar, traders in New York shied away from pushing the United States currency up higher.
"There is some thought that their trade surplus may have grown," Mr. Harris said.
Some traders said economic data released yesterday helped reinforce traders' inclination to take profits. First-time claims for state unemployment benefits and United States retail sales in August suggested a modest pace of American economic growth.
In other trading, the dollar fell to 1.2125 Swiss francs, from 1.2225 Wednesday. The British pound firmed to $1.5484, from $1.5501 Wednesday, while the dollar climbed to $1.3707 (Canadian), from $1.3592 Wednesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY US DOLLAR (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: KEVIN HARRIS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



279 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Finds Retail Sales Nearly Flat

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Consumers spent cautiously in August except on steeply discounted 1995 model cars, the Government said today, as new signs emerged that jobs might be getting harder to find.
The Commerce Department said retail sales rose in August by six-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $197.3 billion, after a revised four-tenths of 1 percent fall in July. 
 But except for autos, sales were flat in August -- just as they were in July -- as hot weather discouraged shopping for many types of goods.
Separately, the Labor Department reported an unexpected surge of 21,000 new claims for unemployment pay last week, to 362,000.
It was the highest level since mid-July and occurred even though it was a four-day workweek because of the Labor Day holiday, which normally would mean fewer claims.
"This is an indication the labor market may not be all that strong, and in fact might be rather soft, supporting consumer caution," said Sung Won Sohn, an economist for the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis.
Mr. Sohn described August retail sales as "pretty weak," considering the overall increase from July was entirely attributable to an aggressive campaign by car makers to sell off 1995 models through rebates and promotions as they cleared lots for the 1996 models.
The department also revised July retail sales to a bigger four-tenths of 1 percent drop from a previously reported one-tenth of 1 percent fall.
New cars account for nearly one-quarter of total retail business, so swings in sales have a huge influence on the monthly figures.
During August, new car sales climbed 2.4 percent, to $48.5 billion, after a 1.5 percent drop in July. The figures included not only sales to individuals but also to fleet buyers like auto rental companies.
The only other business category that showed relatively strong sales in August was furniture and home furnishings, which rose 1.8 percent, to $10.8 billion, after a four-tenths of 1 percent July decrease.
Most other types of retail store sales were lackluster. Sales at general merchandise stores, for example, fell four-tenths of 1 percent after a four-tenths of 1 percent rise in July.
Robert Dederick, an economic consultant to the Northern Trust Company in Chicago, said the sales figures supported the view that consumer spending, which fuels two-thirds of national economic activity, was "alive and well if not alive and exuberant."
The pace of activity has eased, Mr. Dederick said, but the economy is still growing at a modestly stronger rate than it was in the first half of the year. The nation's gross domestic product, he added, is likely to increase at a 1.5 percent to 2 percent rate in the current third quarter.
"This is an expansion that more or less sowed its wild oats in 1994, suffered conscience pangs early in 1995 and now is settling into a more temperate sort of life style," Mr. Dederick said.
Tim McGee, an economist for Tokai Bank Ltd., said tepid retail sales might fan hopes for an interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve when its policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee meets on Sept. 26.
"The economy's coming back from the dead, but it's not off to the races," Mr. McGee said.
The stock and bond markets jumped higher on the weak sales and higher jobless claims numbers, in hope of lower interest rates ahead. But most economists do not expect an announcement of cheaper credit from the meeting, since the Fed has indicated its preference for slower growth with less inflation risk.
Among other categories, the department said clothing-store sales dropped 1.5 percent in July and August and food sales were flat in August after rising six-tenths of 1 percent in July.
Overall sales of durable goods, including cars and other long-lasting items, rose 1.7 percent in August after an eight-tenths of 1 percent fall in July.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Retail Sales" tracks total retail sales, seasonally adjusted, from March 1994 through August 1995. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (69%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) WELLS FARGO & CO (69%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; AUTOMOBILES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAIL SALES (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); SALES REBATES (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); US LABOR DAY (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT DEDERICK (73%); SUNG WON SOHN (60%); TIM MCGEE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



280 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 29; Column 1; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Inside Art

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:

Galleries vs. Auctions
This week's announcement that PaceWildenstein gallery is handling the modern art collection from the estate of Mark Goodson, the television producer, demonstrates an interesting development in the art market. In past seasons, art dealers both here and abroad have tried to compete head-to-head with auction houses for major estate property. Many have even offered executors some of the attractive financial packages that Sotheby's and Christie's provide, like guarantees (an undisclosed minimum price that an auction house promises the seller regardless of a sale's outcome).
But in almost all cases, auctions have been the selling method of preference for major estates, in large part because executors feel that selling in a public arena is a safer way to carry out their fiduciary responsibilities. 
 The tide may be turning. When Goodson died in December 1992, the executors met with both Sotheby's and Christie's as well as with several dealers. The time was not good for sellers because the market was still in a slump. Since the Goodson estate was not under the gun to convert art into quick cash for taxes, the executors decided to hold onto the 50 or so works by such masters as Picasso, Bacon, Giacometti and Kandinsky until conditions improved.
This season they felt the time was right to sell. Arne Glimcher, the president of PaceWildenstein, "had sold Mark a substantial part of the collection and had a personal feel for it," said Jeremy Shamos, an estate executors.
PaceWildenstein gave a compelling sales pitch. "We can provide a service the auction houses can't," Mr. Glimcher said. "Everything doesn't hinge on one night like it does in the auction business, and we can protect the works over time, since nothing is publicly burned if it doesn't sell." PaceWildenstein will soon have a gallery in Los Angeles in addition to those in London and New York, so it will be able to take the art on tour just as the auction houses do.
"We are planning to do an exhibition of the art in New York at the end of October, and the works will go to Los Angeles in time for the opening of the gallery at the end of the month, so the art will be seen on both coasts," Mr. Glimcher said. "Some of the works will also go to London." He would not discuss whether the gallery had offered the estate a guarantee, but art experts close to PaceWildenstein say that the estate was not interested in such financing deals.
Mr. Glimcher also declined to give prices of individual works, but he estimated that the entire collection was worth over $40 million, nearly twice the minimum estimates the auction houses had put on it for a public sale.
Highlights of the collection include a Bacon 1964 "Study for Self-Portrait." A larger and later Bacon portrait of John Edwards sold at Sotheby's in London in June for $2.1 million. Also in Goodson's collection is an important Kandinsky, "Violet Dominant No. 603," from 1934. A comparable one sold at Sotheby's in London two years ago for $4 million. Another highlight is Giacometti's "Woman From Venice VI," from 1956. An identical cast of the sculpture sold at Christie's in New York last year for $1.6 million, but some experts say the Goodson Giacometti has a richer patina.
 
No Plastic for Art
 You can leave home without it. Just a year after Sotheby's announced to clients worldwide that they could pay for purchases on their American Express cards, the auction house informed clients that beginning Oct. 1 it would no longer accept American Express for auction purchases, shipping charges and the fees charged to sellers when works of art fail to sell. The company will, however, continue to accept American Express for the purchases of catalogues and books.
A staff memo explained: "Over the past year American Express has worked diligently with us to make this relationship mutually beneficial to our clients and to both companies. In the process, however, we have discovered that the nature and the economics of the auction business are not as compatible with those of the charge card business as we had originally hoped."
After the Los Angeles collector and philanthropist Eli Broad paid $2.5 million for Roy Lichtenstein's "I . . . I'm Sorry," a painting from 1965-66, using that little piece of plastic to be entitled to 2.5 million membership miles on any airline that participates in American Express's program, the auction house was flooded with buyers eager to do the same. While neither American Express nor Sotheby's would discuss the arrangement between the two companies, obviously Sotheby's itself was racking up quite a hefty American Express bill. The credit card company typically charges merchants that accept the card 2 to 5 percent of the value of its purchases.
"It's disappointing Sotheby's will no longer be taking American Express, since obviously there was a clear demand for the card," said Marcos Rada, director of communications for American Express. "But we could not agree on many logistical and business issues." Mr. Rada declined to elaborate on exactly what the disagreements were and would only add that "it was an amicable parting of the ways."
 
Hushed-Up Theft
 The Museum of Modern Art understandably hopes that when calamity strikes on a quiet Saturday in August, nobody will notice. But now that it's fall and the art world is back and gearing up for a new season, this is just the kind of tale everyone is talking about.
Picture this: a man racing down the museum's escalator carrying Duchamp's famous "Bicycle Wheel" from the Modern's collection. He is almost out of the building, gets stuck momentarily in the revolving door, then runs down the street. Museum security guards try unsuccessfully to catch him. The next morning, the wheel is found on the flagstone terrace of the museum's sculpture garden, and the white stool it normally sits on is unearthed in a nearby ivy bed.
The work, which experts say could be worth as much as $1 million, is Duchamp's 1951 re-creation of the 1913 original, which no longer exists.
So keen were museum officials to hush up the incident that board members were never notified of it. But time, it appears, is not healing this wound. Museums never like to talk about such incidents for fear of encouraging others, so it is not surprising that information about the bicycle and the perpetrator was hard to elicit.
"It's receiving minor attention," said Jessica Schwartz, the museum's spokeswoman. But she confirmed that the Modern's own conservation department was attending to the damage, which she says is minor, and that reports that the white stool was smashed are untrue. Detective Joseph Arigoni, however, confirmed that the stool was in bad shape.
Ms. Schwartz confirmed that the object would go back on view, but she said she was not sure when. She refused to comment on whether the culprit had been caught.
Detective Arigoni said none of the security guards at the museum got a good enough look at the thief to identify him.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A detail from Francis Bacon's "Study for Self-Portrait" (1964), in the Goodson collection. (Ellen Page Wilson/PaceWildenstein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (90%); AMX (LSE) (90%); AMEXP (PAR) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); PACE WILDENSTEIN GALLERIES AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); PACE WILDENSTEIN GALLERIES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); 

SUBJECT: ART; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS AUCTIONS (91%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (79%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; GOODSON, MARK; DUCHAMP, MARCEL (1887-1968) ARNE GLIMCHER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



281 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Panel Sees a Corrected Price Index as Deficit-Cutter

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Opening an arcane but politically painless door to budget balancing, a bipartisan Congressional panel has calculated that the Consumer Price Index overstates inflation and that a correction of that bias could reduce the Federal deficit by $634 billion over the next 10 years.
The five economists appointed to study the index said in an interim report made public today that their best estimate of the overstatement was one percentage point for coming years. If this is not corrected, the report said, in 2005 the total amount of the overstatement will exceed all but the top three items in the Federal budget. 
 The index, which is calculated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, is the basis for the cost-of-living adjustments that increase the benefits for tens of millions of Social Security recipients and veterans. It is also used for purposes like adjusting individual income tax brackets so the Government does not benefit from inflation at the expense of taxpayers.
The panel found that the overstatement of inflation had been even greater than usual in recent years, about one and a half points. This means that cost-of-living increases and tax-bracket adjustments in 1994, when the consumer prices were calculated to have climbed 2.7 percent, were more than twice as generous as they should have been.
The stakes involved in such a correction are tremendous, and the commission's report comes just as Congress and President Clinton are preparing for a budget battle that many hope could be eased by a change in the inflation index.
"This is real; everything else is talk," said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee who, along with Bob Packwood, an Oregon Republican who was then chairman, appointed the panel in June. A final report, to include recommendations for improving the accuracy of the index is due next June.
Although the panel has had little time so far for original research, its findings underscored the seriousness of the overstatement problem and are likely to be quickly injected into this autumn's budget debate.
Speaker Newt Gingrich, Republican of Georgia, suggested this week that fixing the index, with its implications for lower spending and higher revenue, would provide significant maneuvering room for budget negotiators. The plan that has passed the Republican-controlled Congress assumes a modest downward C.P.I. adjustment of two-tenths of a point, with conferees rejecting a six-tenths of a point House adjustment in favor of the smaller one endorsed by the Senate.
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, is among the other Government officials who have spoken optimistically about financial benefits of a more accurate index.
The panel's chairman, Michael Boskin, a Stanford University economics professor and former Bush Administration official, said, "Obviously, if the size of the bias we identify continued, Congressional Budget Office projections show quite striking implications for deficits and the national debt."
Dr. Boskin said in a telephone interview that about two-thirds of the impact would be on outlays and about one-third on revenue.
Although the group's "best estimate" of the overstatement was one point, it established a range of "plausible values" extending from seven-tenths of a point to two points.
Even a bias of one percentage point, however, would add almost $140 billion to the 2005 deficit, putting the extent of the calculation error behind only Social Security, health care and military spending as Government budget items.
The panel cited five sources of potential bias in using changes in the index as a measure of changes in the actual cost of living. It did not rank them in a summary distributed this evening, but economists believe one of the most important is when consumers shift their buying patterns in response to changing prices, substituting one product for another. The index is based on a fixed market basket of goods and services. But, for example, if the price of an item like steak gets too expensive, consumers may switch to hamburger.
Another source is consumers' buying the same products but at, say, discount stores rather than department stores. There is also a quality change bias that occurs when improvements in quality are measured inaccurately or not at all.
New product bias results from failure to promptly include, say, a new high-tech item in the Government market basket. Finally, there is "formula" bias that arises in the process of aggregating many thousands of individually priced items into a small number of categories.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics had no immediate comment on the panel's findings. It has previously estimated C.P.I. overstatement at between three-tenths of a point and five-tenths of a point but this does not include anything for quality change since it regards this as so uncertain that even the direction of any bias cannot yet be determined.
The Boskin panel said it found "no compelling evidence" that different population groups had faster or slower growth in their living costs than recorded by the C.P.I. Indeed, while further study is needed, it found "just the opposite" -- that costs of, say, the elderly, are quite similar to those of other age groups.
The other members of the Advisory Commission to Study the Consumer Price Index are Ellen R. Dulberger of International Business Machines, Robert J. Gordon of Northwestern University and Zvi Griliches and Dale Jorgenson of Harvard University.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) OREGON REPUBLICAN (67%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) BUDGETS (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); INCOME TAX (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: BOSKIN, MICHAEL; HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BILL CLINTON (54%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



282 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Mets and City Discussing a Domed Stadium

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
While New York City struggles to keep the Yankees, the other big league baseball team in town, the Mets, are quite happy with their current location, but just want a nicer stadium.
After more than a year of discussions with city officials -- and more muted rumblings about leaving the city -- the Mets and the city are talking seriously about plans for a domed ball park to be built right next to Shea Stadium. 
 A proposal submitted to the city in late August by Fred Wilpon, co-owner of the Mets, lays out detailed plans for a 50,000-seat stadium, which would be covered with a retractable dome.
The new stadium would be built in Shea's parking lot in Flushing, Queens, and, after it was built, the old stadium would be demolished and replaced with a parking lot.
The stadium would cost about $457 million, according to preliminary estimates by the Mets, with about $105 million of that for parking and road improvements. Harry O'Shaughnessy, senior vice president and treasurer of the Mets, said no decisions had been made on how much of the cost would be paid for by the city and how much by the Mets.
"Financing is still a big question mark," he said. While the Mets have talked about paying for the stadium with a mix of city money, private money and a public bond issue, he said, "any discussion about who's paying for what is premature."
In keeping with the current fashion in stadium design that pays homage to older ball parks, the new stadium would feature a grass field and have seats laid by the foul lines, not in the current curving arc that keeps the fans far from the ball field.
"We want people to get the ambiance, the fond memories you get with going to the ball park," said Mr. O'Shaughnessy, who said the Mets have been inspired by the design of Camden Yards in Baltimore. "The whole idea is to bring the seats closer to the playing field than they are in some of the modern coliseums, which is what we have now."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the city was still studying the Mets proposal. "We have their plan, we have their proposal, we're looking to find space, we're looking at the various alternatives for financing," he said.
The new stadium proposal has drawn praise from officials in Queens, who see in the dome a year-round opportunity for people-packed events: concerts, conventions, trade shows, hockey games, basketball games. "The dome makes it available for other things virtually all year," said Dan Andrews, a spokesman for the Queens Borough President, Claire Shulman.
Recently, there had been rumblings that the Mets would move to a site near Belmont Park in Nassau County, leaving the city altogother.
Another plan called for the new stadium to be built on land in the Willets Point industrial park, just east of Shea Stadium. Business in the industrial park would have had to move to make way for the stadium.
"This is much better for everyone, for the city, for the Mets, for the neighborhood," Mr. Andrews said. "With the earlier plan, there would be all sorts of site approvals and permits needed. With the new plan, you're using existing parkland."
The new Shea would have a museum/hall of fame, picnic area, stadium club and party suites. A separate parking garage would be built on the south side of Roosevelt Avenue. For now, Mr. O'Shaughnessy said, the Mets have scrapped plans for a entertainment center, something they had talked about building on the site of the old stadium.
He said that the new plan was presented on Aug. 22 to John S. Dyson, Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, and that Mr. Dyson had assigned staff members to analyze the proposal.
"We're still in the very early stages," said Mr. O'Shaughnessy, who added that the Mets were hoping the new ball park would be ready by the year 2000.

GRAPHIC: Map of Queens
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS SHEA STADIUM (83%); NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STADIUMS STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); BASKETBALL (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BOND ISSUES (66%); BONDS (64%); TRADE SHOWS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



283 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: An Exam for Home Health Care

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Milagros Palacios has been in and out of New York City hospitals for the last two years for emergency treatment of a perforated intestine. Each time she is admitted, she says, medical personnel tell her they don't expect her to live.
So far, though, the 62-year-old former medical secretary has just kept going. Each time, she has been discharged to resume her life in her Washington Heights apartment. But because she can't keep solid foods down, a condition that has reduced her frame to a frail 85 pounds, she requires several visits each week from nurses and aides who help with intravenous feeding and change her bandages. 
 Not so many years ago, Mrs. Palacios, who also suffers from neuromuscular weakness, would probably have been consigned to a nursing home or forced to endure long-term hospital stays. But, with the boom in home health care over the last six years, she gets the services she needs for a fraction of the cost -- $2,411 a week, paid in full by Medicare, compared with an estimated $8,400 that a hospital would charge.
Some people would say her case and others like it represent a victory in the country's war on surging health care costs. But there is just one problem: There are too many Milagros Palacioses in the United States.
For the last several years, home health care has been the fastest-growing segment of the fast-growing health care industry. Since 1985, the number of people receiving care in their homes from Medicare, the main payer, has more than doubled, to 3.5 million from 1.6 million. Critics have attacked the spiraling growth in costs, contending that home health care has moved beyond its original mission of rehabilitating hospital patients and taken on people with chronic illnesses who may need care for months or even years.
And, with Americans living longer lives and the first of the baby boomers hitting their 50th birthdays, these critics say the costs will only balloon further unless action is taken to restrain them.
Already, a political debate is shaping up on the best way to do that. The Clinton Administration is focusing on ways to limit payments to some providers of home services. Impatient Republicans in Congress, meanwhile, are advocating sterner measures, including a proposal before the Senate Finance Committee that would require home care recipients to pay 20 percent of the bills, the same share they contribute to hospital and physician charges. Backers say such measures would save $20 billion over seven years.
Yesterday, House Republican leaders sketched their proposal to redesign Medicare, but it was unclear how they would deal with home health care.
As Congress looks at these ideas, Federal law enforcement officials are trying to cut costs another way -- by attacking fraud. Recently, the Federal Government assigned 350 F.B.I. agents and designated $24 million to root out health care abuses, starting with the home care and nursing home industries. In the private sector, insurers and health maintenance organizations are stepping up their efforts to restrain home care expenses.
Moving to head off the budget-cutters in Congress, Medicare is preparing to announce reductions of $70 million to $400 million from the $1 billion it spends annually to provide oxygen for patients with breathing problems. "There is no question that we are paying substantially more than anyone else" for these services, said Bruce C. Vladeck, the head of the Health Care Financing Administration, which runs Medicare. He said payments for similar though not identical care by the Veterans Affairs Department were "about half" of Medicare's rates.
Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, provided one example at a Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing last November. Medicare pays companies $280 a month to provide oxygen in the home to a victim of emphysema or other lung diseases, while Veterans Affairs pays only $126 a month, he said.
More broadly, Mr. Vladeck said Medicare should establish predetermined fees for each type of home health treatment to replace open-ended, fee-for-service payments. Companies that already compete for the business of health maintenance organizations generally support this approach, which has been used for hospitals since the early 1980's. But it may take several years to develop it for home care.
The home health care industry is not sitting still during the debate. Big publicly traded companies are rushing to cut their dependence on Medicare business and create national networks to bid for big contracts with private insurers and employers. More to the point, they are telling budget-cutters in Congress that stomping too hard on home care payments may backfire, forcing sick people to stay longer in hospitals.
The number of companies providing home services -- including giants like Apria Health Care Group, the Coram Healthcare Corporation and the Olsten Corporation, as well as thousands of small, mom-and-pop companies and nonprofit community agencies -- has increased by nearly 50 percent in the last five years, to more than 17,000, with total revenue nearly doubling to $27 billion from $15 billion in the same period, according to Government and industry estimates.
That might sound like a lot of money, the companies argue that they have probably saved the nation many times that amount in hospital bills. Indeed, they point out that their house calls typically cost one-tenth of the average $900-a-day hospital stay.
"There's only one goose that can lay a golden egg as far as savings, and that's home care," said Tim Aitken, the president of Apria. "It's possible they will shoot the goose and the industry will not grow at all."
The industry also argues that strict observance of Medicare rules would safeguard the system against abuses. To get home care, a patient must be homebound and require skilled nursing, not just custodial services. The patient must also require only intermittent visits, not constant surveillance.
If the industry feels threatened, Medicare recipients and their advocates are no less dismayed by a Republican effort to pass some of the cost on to consumers. Carol Raphael, president of the Visiting Nurse Service, a nonprofit agency, deplored the cost-sharing proposal. "A 20 percent co-payment for home care would be a regressive sick tax on the most vulnerable and disabled Americans," she said.
Mrs. Palacios, the former medical secretary, said she could not afford 20 percent of the Medicare bill, or $482 a week. "I don't know what I could do," she said, "I would just die, I suppose."
To be sure, taxpayer-financed Medicaid programs would pick up the slack in many cases for patients who are unable to pay, so some of the savings under the Republican plan would eventually be lost.
One cause of the surging costs is the vastly improved technology that has made new types of care possible at home, and has put increasing numbers of older, sicker patients on life-support services like oxygen, drugs and nutrition for months at a stretch. The big users are often physically fragile, impoverished women in their 80's, according to Marilyn Moon, an economist with the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research center in Washington.
While politicians debate policy, law enforcement officials are going after cheats. "The publicly traded companies learned the hard way that it does not pay to provide substandard services," said Richard Kusserow, a former inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services. "But many small mom-and-pop operators feel they are below the radar screen and continue with questionable practices. Most law enforcement has been against the larger companies."
A Federal audit in Florida found that one in four claims to Medicare from home health agencies were for unnecessary services including "visits" that were never made. A 1994 report by the Senate Committee on Aging estimated that 10 percent of all health charges were fraudulent. By that measure, Medicare, which expects to spend $14.5 billion on home care this year, may lose $1.5 billion to fraud.
The first big home care casualty was the Caremark Corporation, which paid a $161 million settlement and pleaded guilty to Federal felony charges involving kickbacks to doctors who persuaded parents to enroll their children in Medicaid-financed Caremark growth hormone programs in their homes.
Last Monday, Coram, which bought most of Caremark's home care business in April for $309 million, filed a $1.5 billion lawsuit against Caremark. Coram said Caremark had failed to disclose the extent of its legal problems and overestimated its 1994 revenue before the deal in April. In a statement, Caremark said, "We disagree strongly with the allegations."
The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Justice Department are still investigating doctors accused of participating in the Caremark growth hormone program. Although Coram is cooperating with the authorities and tightening its controls over employee behavior, the fallout from the case is hurting business, especially with managed care plans that are big customers for home health services.
"Managed care providers are not going to trust you unless you come to them with absolutely clean hands," said Larry Watts, a Coram vice president in charge of compliance with legal and quality standards.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Jean Digirolamo of the Visiting Nurse Service sets up an intravenous feeding tube for Milagros Palacios, a Medicare patient, in her Manhattan home. The costs of home care are the subject of intense debate in Washington. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Graphs: "Spending Boom"
 The number of Medicare home care patients has more than doubled in the last decade while Medicare spending on these patients has jumped eightfold in the same period. Graphs track number of Medicare home care patients and Medicare dollars spend on these patients from 1985 through an estimated 1995. (Source: Health Care Financing Administration) (pg. D1)
 
"Corporate Revenue on the Line"
 Cuts in health care spending proposed by Republicans in Congress and the Clinton Administration threaten the business of publically traded home health care companies like Apria Healthcare. Apria has significant share of two home care markets: respiratory care and intravenous drugs and nutrition. In 1994, these markets accounted for 24 percent of the $22.5 billion home care market. (Routine nursing care made up 69 percent, and medical equipment made up 7 percent.) Graphs show market share of the respiratory care and the intravenous drugs and nutrition companies. (Source: Robertson, Stephens & Company) (pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) ; VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) ; VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; HOME HEALTH CARE; HOSPITALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING ; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); VISITING NURSES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (85%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (83%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); NURSING HOMES (75%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); BUDGETS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); POLITICAL DEBATES (60%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; HARKIN, TOM (SEN) TOM HARKIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



284 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Another Peak for Dow As Industrials Top 4,800
The Dow industrials closed above 4,800 for the first time, up 36.28 points to 4,801.80, as stocks continued to ride an economy of slow growth and stable interest rates.
The Dow's surge this year has been relentless since it pierced the 4,000 barrier on Feb. 23. But previously strong technology issues slumped, while financial stocks that do well with low interest rates rose. [Page D6.]
 
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to a 19-month low of 6.46 percent. [D16.]
 
Retail Sales Rise 0.6 Percent
Retail sales rose 0.6 percent in August to a seasonally adjusted $197.3 billion. Consumers spent cautiously during the hot summer month except on steeply discounted 1995 model cars. Separately, the Labor Department reported an unexpected surge of 21,000 new claims for unemployment pay last week, to 362,000. [D2.]
 
Magazine Ordered to Pull Article
Business Week magazine was ordered by a Federal judge in Ohio to pull an article from its current issue as it was about to go to press, or be held in contempt. The article contained information from documents that had been filed in Federal court in Ohio as part of litigation between Procter & Gamble and Bankers Trust. [A16.]
 
F.C.C. May Relax Phone Rules
The F.C.C. proposed relaxing rules on how much local telephone companies can charge long-distance carriers to connect their calls. Under the proposal, regional Bell operating companies would be able to reduce access charges for large business customers. [D3.]
 
Chrysler Insiders Sell Stock
Eighteen officers of Chrysler sold 179,728 shares in the company between Aug. 1 and Aug. 14, shortly after Kirk Kerkorian closed his tender offer for 14 million shares. [D3.]
 
Caldor Shares Jump on Report
Caldor's shares skyrocketed 25 percent on a report, called inaccurate by the company, that it had worked out a new $100 million financing package. Market Place. [D6.]
 
Oracle Reports Disappointing Profit
Oracle reported that its operating earnings rose 42 percent in its first fiscal quarter as sales growth slowed. Wall Street analysts were disappointed. [D6.]
 
New Math Would Cut Deficit
A bipartisan Congressional panel has calcu lated that the Federal deficit could be reduced by $634 billion over the next decade if the Consumer Price Index, which the panel said overstates inflation, were adjusted. [A30.]
 
Reversal on Corporate Tax Breaks
Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, reversed field and said he wanted to close some two dozen corporate tax breaks to raise $30 billion more in tax revenues over the next seven years. [A28.]
 
An Overhaul for Rolaids
Warner-Lambert is overhauling Rolaids' formula, advertising and packaging. A $15 million campaign from the S.U.N. Health Core unit of the WPP Group in New York, will seek to graft softer, New Age-style imagery onto a brand with a hard-sell heritage. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]
 
A Departure at Creative Artists
Sanford R. Climan, an executive with the Creative Artists Agency, is departing to join MCA. He will become one of three executive vice presidents reporting to Ron Meyer, the former president of Creative Artists, who recently became MCA's president. [D5.]

GRAPHIC: Table: "YESTERDAY"

Dow industrials	4,801.80	+36.28	30-yr. Treasury yield	6.46%	-0.06	The dollar	102.40 yen	+0.20	
 
Chart: "TODAY"
 
Industrial Production
 August Figures due at 9:15 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.4%
 
Capacity Utilization
 August figures due at 9:15 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: 83.6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (50%); WPP (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); WPP PLC (50%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (87%); TAX RELIEF (86%); BONDS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); RETAIL SALES (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); CORPORATE TAX (75%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); TENDER OFFERS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); JUDGES (67%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (66%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); STOCK OFFERINGS (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



285 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-12
 
SERBS AGREE TO PULL BACK GUNS
The Bosnian Serbs have agreed to withdraw their heavy guns out of firing range of Sarajevo, ending -- at least temporarily -- NATO's bombing campaign against the Serbs, U.S. officials said. A1
 

MUSLIMS AND CROATS PRESS ON
The Bosnian Army and Bosnian Croat forces seemed to consolidate their gains in western Bosnia as the number of Serbian refugees fleeing the advancing armies swelled to an estimated 50,000. A8
 
A U.S. FOREIGN POLICY SUCCESS?
News analysis: After nearly two years of half-measures and failed initiatives, the agreement on Sarajevo marks a significant -- although not necessarily durable -- achievement for the White House. A8
 
ACCORD AT WOMEN'S CONFERENCE
The Fourth World Conference on Women agreed to a declaration calling on governments to raise the economic circumstances of women, protect them from violence and improve the status of girls. A1
 
FIGHTING FOR DIAMONDS IN ANGOLA
A fragile cease-fire holds in many parts of Angola, but Government forces, Unita rebels and mercenaries still struggle to control the wealth in diamond-rich northern provinces. A1
 
BALLOONISTS MAY BE DETAINED
The U.S. and Belarus traded charges after two American balloonists died when they were shot down. Two other Americans may have been detained. A12
 
The Bushes spoke at a Tokyo rally linked to the Moon Church. A7
 
Urawa Journal: Anxious Japanese cut costs and save. A4
 
National A16-32, B8
 
MEDICARE PLAN PROPOSED
House Republican leaders unveiled their proposal to redesign Medicare, but it was short on detail and lacked some expected incentives for elderly people. A1
 
AGREEMENT NEAR ON WELFARE
With the Senate putting the final touches on its plan to overhaul the welfare system, bipartisan agreement was near on adding money for child care for poor women, one of the last hurdles to passage. A1
 
MAGAZINE PULLS ARTICLE
In a case that raises the First Amendment issue of prior restraint of publication, Business Week magazine obeyed a judge and withdrew an article. A16
 
ELDERLY JOBS AT RISK
Thousands of other people age 55 and older -- participants in a small, durable but mostly unheralded Great Society program -- may lose their jobs because of proposals pending in Congress. A16
 
SWITCHING GEARS ON TAXES
The Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee reversed field and proposed abolishing some two dozen tax provisions favorable to business. A28
 
OF DIARIES, AND DIARISTS
Senator Packwood's diary observations of life in Washington bear a special callowness that may nonetheless fit the setting. A26
 
ADMIRAL LEAVING PENTAGON
Surprising many top Pentagon officials, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, one of the military's most innovative officers, plans to retire and take a position in private industry. A28
 
DEFICIT REDUCTION MADE EASIER
A bipartisan Congressional panel has calculated that the Consumer Price Index overstates inflation, and that a correction could reduce the Federal deficit by $634 billion over 10 years. A30
 
RE-INTERPRETING THE EVIDENCE
Prosecution witnesses in the O.J. Simpson trial challenged defense claims that lines found on pieces of paper and on the clothing of one victim were the shoe prints of a second killer. B8
 
Metro Digest B1
 
COCAINE SUPPLY DWINDLING
Only a few months after the Colombian government began arresting leaders of the Cali drug cartel, law enforcement officials say the supply and potency of cocaine in New York City is dwindling. A1
 
THE NEW JERSEY YANKEES?
A New Jersey official said the state Sports and Exposition Authority is "definitely interested" in having the New York Yankees move across the river, possibly in a 50,000-seat stadium near the existing Giants Stadium and Meadowlands. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-34
 
New York, a city of writers and readers. C1
 
Tattoo moves into fashion. C1
 
Borough Park in Brooklyn. C1
For Children C30
 
Theater: "Standing By." C5
 
Film: "Unstrung Heroes." C5
 
"Mute Witness." C4
 
"The Old Lady Who Walked in the Sea." C12
 
"Angus." C16
 
"Hackers." C25
 
"The Stars Fell on Henrietta." C12
 
Restaurants C26
 
Inside Art C29
 
A Goya exhibition at the Met. C30
 
Art in Review C34
 
Design: "Swords Into Ploughshares." C23
 
Books: "My American Journey," by Colin Powell. C33
 
Television: TV Weekend D18
 
Home Video D18
 
Museum of Television and Radio expands. D18
 
Sports B9-14
 
Baseball: Yanks pull even in wild-card race. B9
 
Brogna leads Mets over the Astros, 4-2. B11
 
Basketball: Nets' Coleman will ask for a trade. B9
 
Columns: Moran on Nebraska football B9
 
Tyson-Fox Network news analysis B9
 
Lipsyte on college football B13
 
Football: Jets will again be without
tight end Johnny Mitchell. B9
 
Obituaries D17
 
Tom Helmore, actor.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A34-35
 
Editorials
 
Showdown for Legal Services.
 
The balloon race disaster.
 
Mayor Giuliani and the teachers.
 
Concrete evidence.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: If he can, can I?
 
Bob Herbert: Killer cops.
 
Anthony Lewis: Peace in blindness.
 
Burke J. Balch: Medicare re-opened.
 
Chronicle B7
 
Crossword C34

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); BELARUS (79%); JAPAN (69%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); 

COMPANY: FOURTH WORLD (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); BELARUS (79%); JAPAN (69%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); ARMIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); CHILD SOLDIERS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); RELIGION (72%); REFUGEES (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); MEDICARE (67%); LAYOFFS (64%); AGING (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



286 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Is Said to Have Plan To Build Stadium for the Yankees

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The State of New Jersey, already home to what were once New York's two professional football teams, has drawn up a proposal to build a 50,000-seat baseball stadium in the Meadowlands Sports Complex for the Yankees, state officials said yesterday.
One official, who spoke on the condition that he not be named but who was familiar with the plans of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, said yesterday that the authority was "definitely interested" in having the Yankees in New Jersey. 
 But the official added that the authority, an independent agency that owns and operates the Meadowlands complex, does not want to be seen as trying to steal the Yankees from their longtime home in the South Bronx.
As a result, the authority does not want to make a formal proposal to the team's owner, George M. Steinbrenner 3d, until Mr. Steinbrenner publicly declares that he is considering moving the team to New Jersey.
Nevertheless, Mr. Steinbrenner met with the authority's chairman, Michael D. Francis, late last month, according to a person close to Mr. Steinbrenner, and Mr. Steinbrenner is aware of the Meadowlands plan.
Still, the two sides appear to be circling each other in a coy roundabout in which neither wants to be perceived as too vigorously pursuing the other. And New York City officials suggested that until Mr. Steinbrenner crosses off the South Bronx, nobody else wants to, either.
Mr. Steinbrenner was traveling after a meeting of Major League Baseball owners in Detroit yesterday and could not be reached for comment. Mr. Francis did not return a telephone message yesterday, but the state official said the authority expects that Mr. Steinbrenner would seek a formal proposal on the stadium plan no later than the first week of October.
"They expect he'll ask for a specific proposal within a week of the end of season, if not sooner," the official said.
The proposal to build a new stadium at the Meadowlands is only the latest move in a tangled debate over of the future of the Yankees and its home in the South Bronx. Mr. Steinbrenner, whose lease with the city expires in the year 2002, has rejected numerous proposals by New York for improvements to Yankee Stadium, including new parking facilities and a new facade.
The person close to Mr. Steinbrenner said that the team owner might like to remain in New York but is attracted to the economic possibilities that New Jersey presents.
The New Jersey official said the authority estimates that the team could net nearly $80 million in the Yankees' first year at the Meadowlands. Its highest year at Yankee Stadium was believed to be in the $20 million-plus range. A large percentage of the additional income would come from 100 or more luxury suites at the Meadowlands stadium.
Still, New Jersey officials from Gov. Christine Todd Whitman on down are skeptical about the prospects for a new Yankee stadium rising where farms once sprawled in the plains of East Rutherford. They worry that Mr. Steinbrenner may only be looking for expressions of interest from New Jersey to win a better deal from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, according to a member of Mrs. Whitman's administration, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Secondly, some state officials believe that Mr. Steinbrenner will demand terms that the sports authority will be unable to deliver, like an annual attendance guarantee.
Ten days ago, Mr. Steinbrenner rejected the city's latest plan to keep the Yankees in the Bronx and asked city officials to come up with other locations. One of the elements of the Bronx plan that troubled the Yankees was the difficulty that cars would have getting out of high-rise parking garages. The New Jersey plan provides parking for more than 10,000 cars, all without a garage.
Although Mr. Steinbrenner has said he was not ruling out the Bronx, the feeling among people with the Yankees seems to be that there is virtually no chance the team will play at Yankee Stadium after its lease expires.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Giuliani, Deirdra Picou, said that keeping the Yankees in the Bronx "doesn't appear to be a closed issue." An administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the city was discussing other sites, but added, "I think there are soft proposals, not concrete proposals."
The West Side of Manhattan seems to be the most likely site that the city will use to try to keep the Yankees in New York. Officials have spoken before of building a stadium on a parcel of undeveloped land near the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. But it would be a costly project.
Using figures developed for the Yankees, the authority estimates that it would cost the city $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion for land acquisition, construction of the stadium, a subway extension from Eighth Avenue to 12th Avenue and parking garages no higher than two stories (for easy exit), spread over several blocks.
In contrast, sports authority officials estimate that luring the Yankees to their state would cost about $400 million for construction of the stadium, parking lots, access ramps and a commuter rail spur to the Meadowlands. Portions of the plan were reported this week in The New York Observer.
Another economic reason is attendance. The Yankees have never reached 2.7 million fans a season at Yankee Stadium. Based on surveys and projections, the sports authority believes they would draw at least 3 million in New Jersey.
Surveys have shown that nearly 60 percent of the Yankees' attendance comes from New Jersey and Westchester County. And as a result, Mr. Steinbrenner apparently thinks this could reach at least 3.5 million.
The question of building a stadium for the Yankees has long been a controversial issue in New Jersey. The state's voters once rejected a plan to have the state build a stadium, and Governor Whitman has said that the state would not use taxpayer money to build a stadium.
But Carl Golden, a spokesman for the Governor, said yesterday that the sports authority could issue bonds for such a new stadium and pay them off with income from ticket sales and parking fees.
Mr. Steinbrenner has spoken on occasion with Mrs. Whitman about moving across the river, and she has repeated her interest in seeing a major league ball team in New Jersey. But mindful of Mr. Steinbrenner's penchant for negotiating through the media, she has urged him to take his ideas to the sports authority instead of the State House.
Aanticipating a formal approach by Mr. Steinbrenner, the proposal was drawn up by the Meadowlands president, Robert E. Mulcahy 3d, according to a member of the Whitman administration who spoke on condition of anonymity. It is based on a master plan for the Meadowlands site issued this summer, which envisions a technology theme park and a hotel, among other projects, and has room for a ball park.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC); ; NEW JERSEY; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MEADOWLANDS SPORTS COMPLEX (EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ) ; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); CITIES (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); STEINBRENNER, GEORGE M 3D; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); FRANCIS, MICHAEL D GEORGE M STEINBRENNER (94%); JOHN MAJOR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



287 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: FORUM ON WOMEN AGREES ON GOALS

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Friday, Sept. 15

 BODY:
The Fourth World Conference on Women reached agreement early this morning on a wide-ranging declaration calling on world governments to raise the economic circumstances of women, protect them from increasing levels of violence and improve the status of girls throughout the world.
The "platform for action" is to be presented for ratification later today, and the vote is expected to be unanimous. Some states, including the Vatican and other countries with large Muslim or Roman Catholic populations, may register objections to specific sections. 
 The completion of the document brings to an end 10 days of debate on issues such as how to free women from poverty with new forms of credit, how to raise girls' education level and how to insure women's rights, including equal inheritance.
In the morning hours, women groaned, cheered and applauded through the final arguments in an atmosphere largely free of rancor. An Iranian slapped an Irish delegate on the back after they had gone head to head in a daylong negotiating session over sexual rights. Both seemed to like the outcome.
While document will not bind countries to action, delegates say it gives the issues new visibility among governments and international agencies, and can serve as a template for national policies and legislation.
After a series of key compromises on language relating to sexual rights and cultural and religious differences, delegates from 185 countries debated final sticking points until 4:45 A.M.
"We have a platform," said Patricia B. Licuanan, chairwoman of the final drafting meeting, which is to present the document later today.
"I promised we would be out of here before sunrise and I kept my promise," she said.
Chief among the final obstacles to consensus was whether "sexual orientation" should be included in the antidiscrimination clauses of the document.
But this language was jettisoned at 4:15 A.M. over the objection of more than 30 countries, including South Africa, whose delegation chief, Dr. Nkhosasna Zuna said, "We shall promise ourselves and future generations that we shall not discriminate against anyone ever again."
The United States and Israel also spoke in favor of including sexual orientation.
In an era of tight domestic budgets in many countries, the conference failed to win sizable financial commitments from governments to pay for new programs for women, but it managed to elicit a large number of pledges to redirect national budgets.
"There is not much new money around," said Msgr. Diarmuid Martin, a Vatican representative here, "but the benefit of these conferences is that they focus the attention of everyone on how money ought to be spent and how it can be refocused."
India promised to raise the level of its investment in education with a focus on women and girls. Britain pledged to raise its child-care expenditures 20 percent. The United States is setting up a White House Council on Women and will step up attacks on domestic violence.
The conference ground to its conclusion with far less rancor than had been expected on the sensitive issues of contraception and abortion.
Thomas H. Kean, former Governor of New Jersey and the most prominent Republican on the 45-member delegation, said: "This is a document that guarantees the same rights for women that have long been enjoyed by men. I don't see why anyone would want to oppose it."
This conference on women, which follows meetings that began in Mexico City in 1975, was suffused with a sense of urgency by the rise of the number of women in poverty and the systemic rape and violence directed at women in the "ethnic cleansing" campaigns in the former Yugoslavia and in Rwanda.
In the document's opening declaration, the conference will seek to "insure women's equal access to economic resources including land, credit, science and technology, vocational training, information, communication and markets, as a means to further advancement and empowerment of women and girls."
China had hoped to be one of the greatest beneficiaries of this conference by virtue of Beijing's selection as its site. But instead, China's fears that pro-democracy and human rights campaigners among the delegates would set off a new outpouring of dissent against the Government led at times to heavy-handed and oppressive security measures.
It seemed for a time that the controversy over China's security assault on the delegates would mar the visit of Hillary Rodham Clinton, who delivered the most forceful address of the conference on human rights.
The greatest fear of many of the delegates was that they would have to debate once again the issues relating to women decided last year in Cairo at a United Nations conference on population and development.
At that conference, the Vatican and countries with large Muslim and Roman Catholic populations sought to defeat a clear statement of a woman's right to regulate her fertility and reproductive health.
But in Beijing, the Cairo declarations became a benchmark that many states, including the Vatican and Iran, sought to maintain.
However, among the final sticking points early today was a footnote to the document that sought to subordinate some women's rights to national and religious customs. The footnote was finally rejected when a majority of delegations preferred to state the relationship between human rights and national custom in the document's preamble.
The preamble now states: "While the significance of national and regional particularities and various historical, cultural and religious backgroud must be borne in mind, it is the duty of states, regardless of their political, economic and cultural systems, to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms."
Ms. Licuanan, in a ruling as chairwoman, struck the final compromise of the night when, to satisfy the competing interests in the hall, she killed both the sexual orientation references and the sensitive footnote.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a news conference yesterday, Iranian delegates at the conference on women stressed the need for noting cultural differences in the "platform for action" that was adopted at the United Nations meeting. (Associated Press) (pg. A3)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; HOMOSEXUALITY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; VIOLENCE; DISCRIMINATION; UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON WOMEN WOMEN (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



288 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Enron Delays Buying North Sea Gas From Phillips

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
In an unusual move to put pressure on a supplier to renegotiate a long-term contract, the Enron Corporation said yesterday that it would delay buying natural gas from a $1.2 billion project in the North Sea headed by the Phillips Petroleum Company.
Phillips said yesterday that Enron's decision could postpone the start of production from the North Sea oil and gas fields. Production was to have begun early next year, the company said, and a delay would depress its earnings for 1996. 
 Since gas and oil are generally produced together, the inability of Phillips to reach a new agreement with Enron would keep Phillips from beginning North Sea oil production and would be an economic blow to Phillips and its partners.
Richard D. Kinder, the president and chief operating officer of Enron, said yesterday that Phillips could be affected because "if you don't produce the gas, you can't take the oil either."
While Enron officials said the company would honor the 15-year contract -- which allows it to control the delivery schedule in the early years -- it hoped its delay would bring Phillips back to the negotiating table with more favorable terms and lower prices.
Under the agreement, Phillips cannot seek another buyer for the gas in the contract. Phillips said yesterday that it was not in talks with Enron over the contract.
Enron's move was meant to put pressure on Phillips to lower the agreed-upon gas prices because they were now higher than those available from other producers.
Shares of Phillips, which is based in Bartlesville, Okla., fell 87.5 cents yesterday, to $33.50. Shares of Enron, based in Houston, rose 25 cents, to $35.25.
Fred Leuffer, an oil analyst for Bear, Stearns & Company, estimated that if the project could not start next year, Phillips earnings would decline about 20 cents a share. Earlier he had projected earnings would total about $2.45 a share.
He also said such delaying tactics were unusual now, but less so in the the 1980's when a surplus of gas led companies to break contracts.
Phillips has estimated that oil production at the fields would be about 24,000 barrels a day, or about 10 percent of its total output.
Enron contracted to buy all the gas from the project under so-called long-term take-or-pay agreements that require Enron to pay for the gas even if it does not take delivery.
Enron, which has been seeking to renegotiate the contract, said yesterday that it would not take any delivery of gas from Phillips and its partners until September 1997.
Mr. Kinder, Enron's president, said his company's obligations under the contract "will have no material adverse impact" on earnings.
He said that conditions in Britain, where Enron had planned to market the gas it purchased from Phillips, had changed since Enron negotiated the contract in 1992. With more deregulation and competition in Britain's gas industry, the original terms were no longer as advantageous for Enron, he said.
"We have elected to bank the gas and take it in the later years," he said. "At this time, this kind of contract does not fit our portfolio."
He said that Enron intended to honor the contract and that the company was still "bullish on the long-term gas market."
Enron said that there were many commercial reasons for both sides to resolve the issue but efforts had not been successful.
The pressure on Phillips and its partners, AGIP U.K. Ltd., a unit of AGIP of Italy, and British Gas Exploration and Production Ltd., a unit of British Gas P.L.C., is expected to grow as they are left with a completed production platform that could stand idle at a time when oil prices are moving upward and when the partners could begin to recover their investments by selling oil and gas.
Phillips said that the project was expected to be completed early next year, ahead of schedule and about 15 percent under budget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (91%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH SEA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ENRON CORP; PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (91%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH SEA; UNITED STATES (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH SEA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS RICHARD D KINDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



289 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Soar on Latest U.S. Retail Sales Report

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Treasury securities soared yesterday after a Government report on retail sales calmed fears of accelerating economic growth, pushing yields down to a 19-month low.
The latest evidence of a sluggish economy raised hopes in the bond market that the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates before the end of the year to stimulate growth. 
 The Commerce Department said retail sales rose six-tenths of 1 percent in August. Although that was the second-largest increase of the year, it came in below analysts' expectations of a seven-tenths of 1 percent rise. Excluding autos, retail sales were flat for the month.
Revisions to the July retail sales data now show that consumer demand for items other than autos has not risen for the last two months, a much weaker than expected performance.
"The economy definitely is not picking up steam; it is weaker than some of us anticipated," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis. "Consumers are definitely not on a spending spree."
Treasury prices surged in the morning in reaction to the report. While the market later closed off its highs, the mood remained upbeat.
The Treasury's 30-year bond jumped 27/32 to 10516/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 6.46 percent, its lowest level since February 1994, from 6.52 percent on Wednesday.
Dealers now believe that the economy's slow growth and moderate inflation will continue, making Treasuries very attractive.
Fixed-income investors fear strong economic growth could ignite inflation, which erodes the value of their holdings.
"We're seeing people's longer-term inflation expectations change," said Dana Johnson, chief of market analysis at First Chicago Capital Markets.
Treasury gains were broad-based. The two-year note rose 7/32 , to 10019/32 , while its yield fell to 5.67 percent. The 10-year note jumped 20/32 , to 102, dropping its yield to 6.09 percent.
Analysts said the economy's muted strength was likely to be reflected in lower interest rates going forward.
"When the consumer is spending in a very subdued manner, the economy is likely to move ahead in a subdued manner," said Paul Kasriel, chief domestic economist at Northern Trust in Chicago.
"Long-term interest rates are going to go a little lower," he said. "The market is pricing in some lower inflation, some slower economic growth, some Fed easing and probably some fiscal restraint."
Mr. Kasriel said that barring a collapse of Washington's efforts to reduce the Federal budget deficit, interest rates were unlikely to rise before the end of the year.
"Economic growth will be below potential," Mr. Sohn of Norwest said. "This in conjunction with very good inflation numbers increases the likelihood that interest rates will trend down."
Many analysts are questioning whether the Fed will cut rates at its policy-setting meeting on Sept. 26. But most say they see at least one more rate cut this year, but expect it to come at either the November or December Fed meeting.
"Six percent is definitely possible," Mr. Sohn said, predicting the future yield on the 30-year bond. "I am expecting cuts in November and December."
The municipal market saw gains of about a quarter-point, which though shy of the rise in the Treasury market were strong enough to lure some issuers to the market.
Corporate issuers were also enticed by falling yields as a number of financial companies rushed to the market with about $1.4 billion of debt.
Among yesterday's issuers were the Northern Trust Corporation, Merrill Lynch & Company, the Travelers Group units Travelers Inc. and Commercial Credit, and a Ford Motor unit, the Associates Corporation North America.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auction of one-year bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 94.732
Discounted Rate . . . 5.21%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.52%
High Price . . . 94.742
Discounted Rate . . . 5.20%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.50%
Low Price . . . 94.732
Discounted Rate . . . 5.21%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.52%
Accepted at low price . . . 49%
Total applied for . . . $57,720,070
Accepted . . . $18,358,868
Noncompetitive . . . $827,260
 
The one-year bills mature Sept. 21, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" tracks average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent, from May through yesterday. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (69%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (69%); FIRST CHICAGO CAPITAL MARKETS INC (53%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RETAIL SALES (92%); SALES FIGURES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (53%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



290 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 33 words

HEADLINE: Budget Shortcut Plan

 BODY:
A Congressional panel suggested that a quick repair of the Federal budget might be achieved by recalculating inflation, which could ease many automatic Government costs.
Article, page A30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



291 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Savings and Smoke

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
In 1981, when officials in the Reagan Administration were preparing their first budget, they came up $44 billion short of the spending cuts they needed. So David A. Stockman, the budget director, invented what he called the "magic asterisk." The asterisk in the budget table stood for "future savings to be identified."
Neither Mr. Stockman nor anyone else had the foggiest notion where these savings would be found, and, of course, they never materialized. 
 That was the beginning of a Republican budget policy grounded in gimmicks.
The Reagan and Bush Administrations used unreasonably favorable economic forecasts ("rosy scenarios," they were called) to predict that the deficit would fall. The economy never did so well as they predicted, and the deficit continued to rise.
The Gramm-Rudman law was supposed to require automatic spending cuts whenever the deficit exceeded specified levels. But whenever the screws got tight enough to pinch, the law was changed, so the cuts never had to be implemented.
George Bush ran for President in 1988 promising a "flexible freeze," without ever saying what would be frozen. Republicans in Congress repeatedly advocated ceilings on entitlement spending, without saying what would be done to stay under the ceiling.
But this year things have been different. Every dime the Republicans want to cut has been identified, the howls from those affected notwithstanding.
Until now.
As matters stand, legislation the Republicans are now drafting to revamp the Medicare system -- in the House version, at least -- includes something called a "look-back sequester." Depending on how the bill is finally written, said Stanley E. Collender, a Federal-budget specialist at Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm, "a look-back sequester could be pretty much the same as a magic asterisk."
This is the situation:
Under the budget blueprint Congress approved in June, $270 billion worth of savings must be found in the Medicare program over the next seven years. The budget writers picked that number for no reason other than that it made the overall budget come out balanced.
When health policy experts began preparing the Medicare legislation, they figured the maximum amount they could possibly save by reducing payments to doctors, hospitals, laboratories and other health care providers. Then they calculated by how much they dared raise the monthly premiums that Medicare beneficiaries pay for coverage of doctor bills and other outpatient care.
At this point, they ended up well short of $270 billion. Somehow -- the details of the plans have not been made public -- the Senate staff may have managed to come up with further, identifiable savings that bring the total to $270 billion. That may be because Republican senators are less wedded than representatives to a tax cut. If Medicare savings do not materialize, the senators would probably be willing to scrap part of the $245 billion tax cut in the budget blueprint.
But as of today, the House drafters were still as much as $80 billion shy of the Medicare savings they need.
The representatives say they will plug the gap by inducing retirees and others on Medicare to move into health maintenance organizations, take out medical savings accounts or otherwise opt voluntarily for less expensive insurance coverage. The representatives call this expanding the choices available to those on Medicare.
Most experts in the cost of health care doubt that such savings can be found in the next seven years from persuading Medicare recipients to choose other forms of coverage. In fact, many experts believe that the steps the Republicans are proposing, while perhaps cost-effective eventually, would be more expensive in the short term.
So the Congressional Budget Office, the arbiter of what actually constitutes saving money, found that the plan of the Republicans in the House still fell short of $270 billion in savings.
This is when the idea of a fail-safe mechanism called a "look-back sequester" came into being. Under this notion, officials would look back at the end of each year to see if movement into H.M.O.'s and the other inducements had actually saved as much as had been hoped under the budget. If they had not, then further steps would automatically be taken in the following year (a "sequester," in budget language) to make up the difference.
Here's the rub: So far, the Republicans have not said precisely what those further steps would be. In one of the latest versions, for instance, the Secretary of Health and Human Services would simply be instructed to find the necessary savings. Without specifics about what would be cut and by how much, the Congressional Budget Office continues to say that the plan does not add up.
A Republican staff member involved in the process described the lawmakers involved this way: "They've gotten weak-kneed. They create this world of choice, which would be fine. But then they duck on the details because they don't want anyone to accuse them of touching anyone's benefits."
Robert D. Reischauer, former director of the budget office and now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said this of the Republicans: "The more specific and the less flexible they are, the more what they are proposing will look like an actual cut and, therefore, the more hollering you will hear from those affected and the more politically unpalatable it will be."
All this may be resolved in the next few days. Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, the ardent Republican budget-cutter who is chairman of the House Budget Committee, has been leaning hard on Medicare-writers to come up with an honest accounting of Medicare savings.
If they do, this much is clear: They will have to say specifically who would stand to lose what in which circumstances -- be they doctors, hospitals or elderly patients.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: PRICE WATERHOUSE CSG (53%); MEDICARE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); MEDICARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); TAX LAW (73%); APPROVALS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); HOSPITALS (65%); WRITERS (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E RONALD REAGAN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995



292 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Report to Seek Some Changes In Nasdaq

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
A long-awaited report on the Nasdaq stock market, the nation's fastest-growing equity market, will call for changes in the market's governance and supervisory mechanisms, but will not call for a major supervisory overhaul, according to people familiar with the new study.
The report by former Senator Warren B. Rudman, a New Hampshire Republican, will recommend increased public representation on the boards of that stock market, and its parent, the National Association of Securities Dealers, as well as a significant boost in the market's enforcement capabilities, according to people familiar with the new study. 
 The report, which is due to be presented to the N.A.S.D. board on Monday and be released to the public later in the week, is also expected to discuss the relationship between the N.A.S.D. and the Nasdaq market, which the association both manages and oversees, a potential conflict of interest that galls many of the market's critics. But the Rudman report is expected to shy away from recommending a complete overhaul of that controversial relationship.
N.A.S.D. has come under increasing criticism in the last two years about whether the way securities are traded and priced is fair to investors. This criticism has led to an investigation of the exchange's practices by both the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Senator Rudman's report is part of a N.A.S.D. effort to be seen as addressing its problems before any potential Government intervention.
Hired by the N.A.S.D., Senator Rudman with a team of six other financial and economic experts has for the last 10 months conducted interviews and research to pull the report together. Arthur Levitt Jr., the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, recommended Senator Rudman to the N.A.S.D. board.
"I get a sense that what they're really going to do is talk about the governance of the place," said George J. Benston, a professor of finance, accounting and economics at Emory University, who studies the Nasdaq and has consulted on it. But the new report is expected to avoid some thorny issues that face the fast-growing market. "I think they're avoiding the price-fixing issue," Professor Benston added, alluding to allegations, denied by the market and the N.A.S.D., that Nasdaq dealers collude to fix prices.
There is significant pressure on the Nasdaq market and its self-regulated parent, the N.A.S.D., to be responsive to the Rudman committee report, and it is likely that many of its recommendations will be carried out quickly. The S.E.C. and the Justice Department are currently conducting their own investigations of the Nasdaq market, particularly because of the late-reporting habits of many market participants, and concern about reported price-fixing.
The Rudman report is therefore just the first shoe to drop, and it is likely that the N.A.S.D. and the Nasdaq market will try to act quickly on it, not least to deflect any expected criticisms from the S.E.C. and the Justice Department, particularly in the areas of enforcement and regulation. The Nasdaq has recently moved to strengthen enforcement, hiring as many as a dozen extra people in this area since the beginning of the year, according to one market consultant.
The Nasdaq market, where about 5,000 companies quote their shares, has grown very rapidly in recent years, and during August had an average daily volume of 372.8 million shares, a 26.3 percent increase on its 1994 average daily volume of 295.1 million shares. Its share volume this year has outstripped that of the New York Stock Exchange, which is eager to try to attract many of the larger technology companies that are currently quoted on the Nasdaq. The Intel Corporation, the Microsoft Corporation, the Oracle Systems Corporation, the Cisco Systems Corporation, Tele-Communications Inc. and the MCI Communications Corporation are the most traded stocks on the Nasdaq market. And it is generally the market where many of the country's fastest-growing companies, particularly those in high technology, are listed and traded.
Unlike the New York or American Stock Exchanges, Nasdaq does not have an exchange building or floor. Stock prices are transmitted by a computer system that carries price quotes offered by brokerage firms. Trades are executed via telephone and computer.
One of the Nasdaq market's problems is that it has grown so rapidly that its regulators have had trouble keeping up. The late reporting of trades, in particular, has been a continual problem. The size of the difference between the price offered and the price asked for stocks also has generated controversy. That, in turn, has led to allegations that the large price spreads are evidence of price-fixing by dealers in the market.
A study by William G. Christie, a professor at Vanderbilt University, and Paul Schultz, a professor at Ohio State University, concluded that people who make markets in Nasdaq stocks "implicitly agree" to maintain price spreads that are wider than they otherwise might be. By doing so, the market-makers reportedly collude to fix prices, according to some market critics. Wider spreads would offer market-makers the opportunity to make bigger profits.
The Christie-Schultz study helped to spur a class-action lawsuit against 33 Nasdaq stock market dealers -- including such firms as Goldman, Sachs & Company and Merrill Lynch & Company -- filed on behalf of small investors. All the firms charged have strongly denied that they collude to manipulate prices on the Nasdaq markets. In an agreement reached yesterday, defense attorneys for the Nasdaq dealers agreed to hand over to the small investors' lawyers tapes of dealers discussing the prices of stocks. The plaintiffs contend that the recordings show that dealers tried to keep bid and offer prices artificially far apart, a contention denied by the defense.
The issue of reported price-fixing continues to attract a huge amount of professional and academic interest. In the latest twist in that debate, the Financial Economists Roundtable will release a statement about Nasdaq on Monday that will discuss the issue of reported collusion between dealers, and other market matter, said Hans R. Stoll, a professor of finance at Vanderbilt University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (86%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); BONDS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: RUDMAN, WARREN B; TRUELL, PETER WARREN B RUDMAN (89%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



293 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Era Ends at Port Authority As 160 Workers Are Laid Off

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Wanda Rivera was sitting at her desk at the headquarters of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey yesterday morning grimly watching her co-workers being summoned one by one into an office to receive the news that they were being laid off. Then her phone rang. The display said the call was coming from extension 4479. That office. Ms. Rivera knew it was her turn.
"I thought: it is finally here, the dreaded moment," said Ms. Rivera, 31, a secretary. "I was nervous and frustrated and angry and all sorts of feelings combined." 
 After weeks of bouncing between despair and hope, Ms. Rivera and more than 160 other people lost their jobs yesterday in the first large-scale layoffs at the Port Authority since the Depression. The reductions ushered in a new era for an agency that had long seemed able to dodge the kind of sharp cuts that government and industry have been subjected to in recent years.
But the authority is now being overseen by Gov. George E. Pataki and Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, two Republicans who have vowed to trim its size just as they have scaled back their own states' work forces. Yesterday's layoffs, most of which were at the authority's headquarters at the World Trade Center, were the first phase of reductions that are to total at least 600 positions by early next year, from a staff of about 8,800.
The cuts, intended to avoid an increase in the authority's tolls and commuter railway fare, left a tense scene at the authority's offices in the World Trade Center. In some departments, workers sobbed as they packed up the contents of their desks, saying they were bitter about devoting so many years of their lives to an agency that is now casting them aside.
"I am angry, because when you have been with a company almost nine years, it's almost like it's your second family," said Debra Ashe, 35, a senior office assistant at the office of economic and policy analysis, which is being disbanded, doing away with more than 40 jobs. "It really hurts. You expect to stay here and continue working and retire here one day."
The cuts seemed to sting all the more because the authority was known for nurturing its workers and protecting them from the turmoil that often roils government agencies when new governors or mayors are elected.
"This is the Port Authority," said John Dunham, 31, who was dismissed as a senior economic analyst. "Come on, the Port Authority never laid off anyone."
Mr. Dunham, who arrived at the authority only 15 months ago, added, "It has a reputation and history that is now gone."
The layoffs were such a departure for the authority that it held training sessions for senior officials on Thursday on how to dismiss people. The officials were put through exercises in which they pretended they were telling workers they were being dismissed and then described the benefits the workers were entitled to.
Those being laid off are to remain on the payroll until Oct. 15 and then get a severance package that takes into consideration age and seniority and will average about three months pay per worker, officials said. The authority has also set up a career counseling office that more than 100 workers had visited by last night.
Besides the office of economic and policy analysis, three other areas were hard hit: management and budget; international business, and human resources. George J. Marlin, the authority's executive director, has said that the number of workers in those four areas has grown unwieldy in recent decades.
He has pointed to those areas as examples of what he says is a tendency for middle managers at headquarters to duplicate tasks being done at the authority's many sites, which include the region's three major airports, six bridges and tunnels, the Port Authority Trans Hudson commuter railway, most of the marine terminals at New York Harbor and the World Trade Center itself.
When the authority announced the layoffs last week, it said they were the largest, and virtually the only, such cuts in its 74-year history. But Professor Jameson W. Doig of Princeton University, who has studied the authority, said yesterday that it laid off a similar percentage of its work force in the early 1930's, largely because of the Depression.
Senior authority officials said that by last night they had eliminated about 315 positions in this round of cuts, achieving them from the more than 160 layoffs as well as from voluntary departures and from leaving vacant slots open.
The officials said yesterday that they regretted having to undertake the layoffs, but they also insisted that they had no choice.
"It's always painful even when one person has to lose his job, but we feel that this is a vital and necessary first step in moving the Port Authority in a new direction," said John J. Haley Jr., the deputy executive director of the authority.
But the workers who were dismissed had few nice words for Mr. Pataki, Mrs. Whitman or the authority's senior management. Many of them questioned why the authority made so many cuts in the middle of the work force and left alone high-ranking officials who allowed the middle to grow in the first place.
"They want to be able say, 'We broke the back of the fat, arrogant Port Authority,' " said a worker who was laid off in the office of economic and policy analysis and who spoke on condition of anonymity. "I actually think that there is tremendous fat in this agency. Unfortunately, the real layers of fat are in senior management, but those guys are not going to slit their own throats."
Margie Beck, 28, another employee in the office, agreed, saying that her managers had misled her in recent weeks about how many jobs would be saved. "They didn't have to let all these people go," she said.
Others said their departments had been the focus of so many rumors for so many weeks that they were relieved that it was finally over. Now, they said, they could move on.
"I am not angry, in fact I have come to accept it," said another worker who would speak only on condition of anonymity. "I have come to the realization that it is probably not a good place to be even if you did survive."
Many said they had not yet begun looking for employment because they had thought they might escape the cuts. But now, they said, they would relax for a few days and then plunge into the job market.
"It's over with, I feel much better now," said Ms. Rivera, who had been in the office of economic and policy analysis for 12 years. "Let's see what will happen with the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Dunham was laid off 15 months after moving to New York. Margie Beck waved goodbye as she and Sandra James left the World Trade Center after being laid off. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); PORT AUTHORITY (93%); WORLD TRADE CENTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY (93%); WORLD TRADE CENTER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LAYOFFS (93%); PORT AUTHORITIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (69%); CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (69%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



294 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Study Links Job Stress to Early-Birth Risk

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Job stress, noise, long periods of standing and work weeks of more than 40 hours all greatly increase the risk of giving birth to premature babies, a study has found.
Researchers examined the outcomes of pregnancies of 1,470 nurses and found that those who worked around loud machines or stood for hours while caring for patients or who worked unusually long and irregular schedules were 70 percent to 80 percent more likely to deliver premature, underweight babies. 
 For women who had a history of premature births, the risk increased by 10 times, said Dr. Timothy R. B. Johnson, chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, the senior author of the study.
He said women who had a previous premature delivery "should seriously consider whether they want to work at all."
A report on the study was published today in The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
The study compared the pregnancies of nurses whose jobs required them to sit in relatively quiet surroundings with nurses who worked with high levels of standing, lifting, stress and noise.
Dr. Johnson said nurses were used in the study because they had similar education and economic backgrounds and were generally well-nourished. The profession also involves a variety of assignments with different levels of stress and physically demanding work.
Women who stood at their jobs for five to six hours at a time increased the risk of premature delivery by 80 percent, the study found. More than six hours of standing tripled the risk.
Babies born before 37 weeks of pregnancy were considered premature. Among the 1,470 nurses, there were 210 premature babies and 1,260 delivered at term.
Babies born prematurely have a higher death rate than those carried to term, and the survivors can have medical problems for a lifetime.
"This study has changed the kind of recommendations I make to women," Dr. Johnson said. "My recommendations to all working women who are pregnant is that they not stand for prolonged periods of time, that they not work for more than eight-hour days or for more than 40-hour weeks."
Barbara Luke, an associate professor at the University of Michigan and an author of the study, said the decision on when to leave work during pregnancy should be based on a woman's job and medical history.
She said it was very important to avoid these risks during the second half of pregnancy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: D R JOHNSON LUMBER CO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; PREMATURE BABIES PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); WORKPLACE STRESS (91%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); WOMEN (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (79%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); WRITERS (74%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, TIMOTHY R B (DR) TIM JOHNSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



295 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Kohl, the Enduring Everyman, Waits for History

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: COTTBUS, Germany

 BODY:
Helmut Kohl has come to this small town near the Polish border to celebrate the Federal Market Gardeners' Show, a panoply of nurtured blooms and emerald lawns grafted onto the environmental neglect of the former East Germany.
The Chancellor, America's most stolid European ally, is large, self- confident, and there is nothing about him -- his gray-suited blandness, his ineffable suggestion of assurance -- that implies mystery. 
 Yet, somewhere beyond his fireside delivery and his readiness to pre-empt wisecracks about his girth with his own wisecracks about his girth, there is a puzzle.
Almost a year into his fourth term since 1982, Mr. Kohl, 65, is set next year to become Germany's longest-serving postwar Chancellor, supplanting Konrad Adenauer, whose 14 years from 1949 to 1963 anchored the former West Germany firmly in the West and oversaw the economic miracle of postwar revival.
Midway through the 1990's, moreover, Mr. Kohl is the only survivor of a coterie of European leaders who shaped the final decade of the cold war. His longtime ally, President Francois Mitterrand of France, has been replaced by the Gaullist Jacques Chirac; from Britain to Spain and Italy, politics has become the politics of uncertainty.
But Mr. Kohl endures. The question that crops up is this: How did a politician once derided as a provincial clodhopper transcend such narrow visions to become what his image-molders depict as a statesman?
The answer, in the hostile view, is that he did not, that greatness was thrust upon him by the utter surprise of German reunification five years ago; that, rather than force history's pace, Mr. Kohl is bathing in its glow.
"He conveys the impression," said Erwin K. Scheuch, a sociologist in Cologne, "that the only thing that interests him now is how he will look in the history books."
From friendlier perspectives, though, it was Mr. Kohl's intuitive, political gumption in seizing history's moment after the Berlin wall fell in 1989 that pre-empted much potential trauma and thus secured a place in history.
With his journeys abroad -- this year, on the 50th anniversary of the fall of Nazism, he has made symbol-laden visits to Israel, the Netherlands and Poland -- Mr. Kohl increasingly projects himself as the embodiment of his land.
But there is nothing so Promethean in his political image back home, where his German supporters see him as Everyman, a mirror of their own appetites and ordinariness, a Roman Catholic churchgoer, a man who, as he repeats with mantra-like frequency, sees the solution to most things in "the wise middle way."
"He's the cross section of the good German citizen," said Rudolf Grosskopf, an author in Hamburg.
The Federal Market Gardeners' Show is no great political event, just one more speech to the converted. It is, though, a symbol of the East catching up with the West, a display of the qualities the Chancellor most wants to instill in the post-Communist East, and which is the grist of his political message in the West.
"A message of confidence, hope and courage goes out from here," the Chancellor says at the show. The gardeners offer standing ovations before and after the speech. And, as Mr. Kohl improvises his way through his address, departing frequently from his text, the theme recurs.
"We have every reason for optimism," he says, referring later to "realistic optimism."
"Helmut Kohl is through and through a party politician," said Joschka Fischer, the head of the increasingly powerful opposition Green Party. "He's never been anything else."
Indeed, his grip on the governing Christian Democrats is legend: no challenger has ever survived a fight with him; he tends his constituencies and remembers his supporters' birthdays; he works the phones and quickly rebukes errors.
"What is very important for him is that he has never lost his contact with the party," said a longtime confidant who insisted on anonymity. "He keeps an eye on the party base. He always knows its mood. It is what keeps him strong."
Mr. Kohl was 15 when World War II ended 50 years ago. He represents a generation of Germans too young to be directly tainted by Nazism yet old enough to know firsthand their compatriots' brutality.
The experience has shaped his caution in dealing with the Nazi past and his vision of a German future closely entwined with a united Europe and the United States.
Even though he seems to believe that Germans have learned their lessons, he never says so openly for fear of the charge that he is trying to bury the memory of the Holocaust. But he talks of Germany's "liberation" from Nazism in the same breath as he talks of recognizing "German guilt and German responsibility for the crimes of the Nazi era."
Mr. Kohl has agreed to the creation of a vast Holocaust memorial at the very heart of Berlin, the capital of reunited Germany, but does not see the past as a reason to stymie the future in a united Europe with Germany at its heart.
"To maintain peace, there can be no diversion from the path to a united Europe," he said in the Netherlands last May.
Equally, though, many Europeans suspect an ulterior motive. "The fear for some Europeans," a diplomat said, "is Teutonic knights in three-piece suits."
In Cottbus, the big issues are left aside. There are perhaps 500 supporters crammed into a meeting hall at the Federal Market Gardeners' Show for Mr. Kohl. His mood is good.
Last year, before Mr. Kohl narrowly won the October elections, the polls and his opponents were already writing him off -- as they did before unification -- although even his enemies would acknowledge his knack for winning against the odds.
Right now, though, the polls are favorable, if only because the Social Democrats, the main opposition party, are in disarray, a reflection of the broader decline of the European left.
His audience here is friendly, and there are not too many of the television cameras that provoke thoughts of media hostility, particularly in his early years as Chancellor, when many saw him as the singular hindrance to his party's fortunes.
Some Germans have criticized Mr. Kohl, who declined to be interviewed for this article, for being overly cautious, and his moves are often cautious -- plodding on the economy, conservative on issues like liberalized shopping hours.
Ever the party politician and back-room manipulator, Mr. Kohl favors consensus. But much of the time, his critics assert, he does not explain his confidence, preferring instead simply to exude it.
In the former East Germany, said Werner Patzelt, a political scientist at the University of Dresden, Mr. Kohl has lost support among the former Communist left for reunification policies that have cost many people jobs and wrenched away security.
But none of that seems to dim the gardeners' enthusiasm for Mr. Kohl. No, he tells them, the power of the German mark will not be lost in the striving for a common European currency (although he does not explain how). Much applause.
No, outsiders will not take jobs from Germans and foreigners legally registered in Germany. More applause.
No, western German money will not stop flowing eastward. Much more applause.
Then comes the pep talk. "We need a new culture of self-reliance in Germany," he says, avoiding the impression that he is talking only to the east Germans who are used to state supports. "The adventure of doing something new in life is something we have prized too little."
Outside, under a rain-drenched pagoda, Mr. Kohl is presented with a red rose named in his honor. Babette Einstmann, a television personality, offers it to him with a few words of praise that refer coyly to the thorns the Chancellor is also known to display in what his detractors call arrogance and his supporters call brusqueness or impatience.
Mr. Kohl takes the rose and considers it. "Stable and well fed," he concludes. "It has much in common with me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Helmut Kohl, seen as Everyman by his supporters, is one of Germany's great political survivors. At a gardeners' show in the eastern town of Cottbus, he accepted a rose named in his honor. (Richard Edinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); POLAND (79%); 

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); POLAND (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); COLD WAR (77%); RELIGION (73%); HISTORY (72%); WRITERS (67%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR); COWELL, ALAN JACQUES CHIRAC (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



296 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Senators Formalize Compromise on Child Care

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Senate leaders today formalized a bipartisan welfare compromise on providing $8 billion for child care, clearing the way for passage of the overall welfare bill next week with significant Democratic support.
In the aftermath of the compromise, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, announced that he would vote for the bill, although with mixed feelings. 
 "The bill still leaves a lot to be desired, but it is an improvement over what we've got now," he said.
Senator Bob Dole, the majority leader, scheduled a vote on the compromise and the overall bill for Tuesday afternoon to insure that all lawmakers are on hand. After 95 hours of debate and 38 votes, along with uncounted hours of back-room negotiation, moderate Republicans and Democrats had won several concessions and Mr. Dole said he would expect "broad bipartisan support."
This would be a striking change from what happened in the House, where a substantially more conservative bill passed with just nine Democratic votes last March. Still, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, remains an angry opponent of the bill, which would abolish the longstanding Federal entitlement to assistance for any eligible poor family.
"I hope the President will veto this bill," Mr. Moynihan told reporters. "It's sure as hell cruel in the lives of American children."
The compromise announced by the leaders today would add $3 billion to the $5 billion already in the bill for child care for poor women. Mr. Daschle said today that Democrats would have liked to have had more -- earlier, they sought a total of $11 billion -- but he added that this compromise "represents the most significant commitment the Senate has made thus far" to the notion that child care is essential to move from welfare to work.
The compromise also creates a $1 billion contingency fund to help states with ailing economies, and it raises the percentage of welfare recipients who can be exempted from the automatic time limits on welfare because of hardship to 20 percent from 15 percent.
Still, the bill retains its basic shape, providing for the dismantling of an array of anti-poverty programs and their replacement with limited lump sum payments to the states, known as block grants. The bill seeks to save $70 billion in welfare spending over seven years, and requires 50 percent of the parents to be working by the year 2000. It also imposes a five-year time limit on drawing welfare benefits.
In the last day of voting on amendments, the Senate rejected a move by Mr. Daschle to allow states to use Federal money to provide vouchers and other forms of noncash assistance to the children in families cut off the welfare rolls. "They didn't ask to be born into these circumstances," Mr. Daschle said. "They can't get their parents out of these circumstances."
The amendment was defeated 48 to 44.
The Senate also rejected, 51 to 47, an amendment pushed by Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, that would prohibit legal aid groups that receive Federal money from bringing suit against this welfare overhaul.
"If they want to advocate, God bless them, but let them advocate with their own money," Mr. Gramm said. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said, "This is targeted at the most vulnerable population."
The Senate split, 49 to 49, on a motion to table another Gramm amendment that would require deep cuts in the staff of the Health and Human Services Department. As a result, that measure will come to a vote again on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; CHILD CARE POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); VETO (74%); PARENTS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); 

PERSON: DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); TONER, ROBIN TOM DASCHLE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



297 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Factory Production Increases

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
The nation's industrial production rose more rapidly in August than it had since last year, led by a surge in automobile manufacturing and by strong demand for electricity during the summer heat wave.
The Federal Reserve said today that production climbed 1.1 percent last month, the biggest gain in eight months. Factories and utilities were operating closer to capacity than they had since March. 
 Analysts said that the surprising broad-based advance might be temporary, but that it seemed to virtually rule out an interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve later this month.
"This is ammunition for the hawks who feel the economy will do just fine without further cuts in interest rates," said Sung Won Sohn, an economist at the Norwest Corporation, a bank holding company in Minneapolis.
The production figures contrast with recent data showing continued economic sluggishness. Just one day earlier, the Government reported that retail sales -- aside from leasing and purchases of steeply discounted cars -- were weak last month.
Analysts said the advance in industrial production, including a 1 percent rise at factories and a 4.9 percent jump at utilities, was a result of special factors. Output in the coming months will grow more moderately, they predicted.
"The manufacturing sector of the economy is rebounding after the spring inventory correction, but I would be very much surprised if the strength continues very long," Mr. Sohn said.
On Wall Street, the reaction was negative but restrained. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 4.23 points, to 4,797.57, and bond prices eased a bit as well, pushing the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond up to 6.48 percent from 6.46 percent.
Federal Reserve policy makers meet in 10 days to decide whether economic conditions warrant any action on interest rates.
After raising rates seven times to stifle inflation and slow growth, the central bank reversed course in July and cut a key rate slightly. But the Fed's chairman, Alan Greenspan, and his colleagues have stayed on the sidelines since then.
The August gain in industrial production was the largest since an identical increase in December. The last time there was a bigger jump was nearly eight years ago.
Industries were operating at 84.3 percent of capacity last month, a jump of six-tenths of a percentage point from July and the highest rate since March. The Fed pays close attention to the figure for signs factories are approaching capacity and inflationary worker shortages could develop.
"The issue now is whether demand will be buoyant enough to sustain these production increases," said Gordon Richards, economist at the National Association of Manufacturers. "Consumer demand has been held back by high debt loans and slow income growth."
A separate report released today by the University of Michigan showed a sharp dip in consumer sentiment in September as its index fell to 88.9 from 96.2, according to subcribers who pay for the service. Expectations about the economy's future growth also weakened.
 The Federal Reserve said production gains in August were widespread.
Even excluding autos, the output of consumer goods rose six-tenths of a percent after falling nearly 1.3 percent in the first seven months of the year. Appliances, furniture, consumer chemical products and food were higher.
Business equipment continued to show strength and construction supplies picked up.
The Fed also revised its July figures to show an overall production gain of three-tenths of a percent instead of one-tenth of a percent. In the previous five months, output was flat one month and fell four times.
The 1 percent increase in factory production last month -- after remaining unchanged in July -- put manufacturing close to its recent peak, in January. The 4.9 percent jump in utility output followed a 3.5 percent increase. Mining output fell 1.4 percent after gaining seven-tenths of a percent in July.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Industrial Production" shows index of total industrial production from Marcy 1994 to August 1995. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (70%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); RETAIL SALES (68%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



298 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Tenneco Is Leaving Houston for Greenwich

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: DALLAS, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Going against the outflow of companies from Frost Belt to Sun Belt, Tenneco Inc. today announced a move in the opposite direction. Tenneco, one of the nation's 50 largest industrial companies, plans to shift its headquarters to Greenwich, Conn., from Houston, by the middle of next summer.
Only about 70 employees, 30 moving from Houston and the rest to be hired locally, will work in the new headquarters, once the home of Henry R. Luce, the co-founder of Time magazine, and his wife, Clare Boothe Luce, the writer, former Ambassador to Italy and former United States Representative. The building lies near the New York border and Westchester County Airport. Tenneco Gas will remain in Houston, and the staff for payroll, accounting and other corporate services will move to the Woodlands, a northern suburb. 
 Dana G. Mead, Tenneco's chief executive, said that the company, less involved in oil and natural gas than it was in the 80's, now needed to be near deal makers and international markets for its auto parts, packaging and other businesses.
"We can manage this change -- and this growth -- more effectively by being closer to Western and Central Europe, as well as in closer proximity to the U.S. financial community, institutional investors and financial analysts, to the business and national media and to Federal Government officials and agencies," he said in a statement.
At a Houston news conference, he recalled his experience as an Army officer and West Point professor and said: "One of the things the Army teaches you is that you go to the point of action. For those of us in Tenneco's management center, the point of action has shifted to the Eastern Seaboard."
Mr. Mead, born in Iowa and raised in Illinois, lived in Cos Cob, Conn., for four years as an executive of International Paper before he came to Tenneco in 1992. Other headquarters sites he considered were Fairfax County, Va., near Washington; northern New Jersey, and Westchester County.
While suburban Connecticut is already the home of General Electric and many other corporate giants, most of them moved there from New York. The state's real estate market and military industries have suffered in recent years, so even the arrival of Tenneco's 70 jobs became the occasion for a news conference with Gov. John G. Rowland and Mr. Mead.
Responding to Mr. Mead's apology for not bringing more jobs, Governor Rowland said, "Listen, in our economy you get excited about any jobs coming to the State of Connecticut."
"It's a psychological boost, a morale builder," said John Carson, an economist who is president of the Connecticut Policy Development Council in Hartford.
Tenneco, with 1994 sales of $12.2 billion, markets and transports natural gas, makes auto parts including Monroe shock absorbers, builds and repairs ships, and provides packaging for foods and other goods.
The company, which has sold off several units including most of the Case Corporation, a maker of farming and construction equipment, has chopped its headquarters staff to 275 from 1,000 in four years. Mr. Mead said an additional 50 to 100 jobs would be pared.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TEN (NYSE) (95%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TENNECO INC TENNECO INC (95%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); NEW YORK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TENNECO INC NEW YORK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENWICH (CONN); HOUSTON (TEX); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); NATURAL GAS (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ARMIES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (72%); WRITERS (70%); AIRPORTS (69%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R; LUCE, CLARE BOOTHE; LUCE, HENRY R CLARE BOOTHE LUCE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



299 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Monitors to Oversee Finances of Indicted Trash Haulers

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
A State Supreme Court justice in Manhattan has decided to appoint independent monitors to oversee the financial operations of city garbage haulers indicted in June on racketeering and extortion charges, saying he feared that the carters might try to "hide, dissipate or divert" millions of dollars in assets before they go to trial.
The carters are charged with being part of a Mafia-dominated cartel that used arson and threats of violence to control virtually all of New York City's commercial garbage-hauling industry. 
 The ruling on Thursday, by Justice Walter M. Schackman, gives the monitors the authority to review on a daily basis the financial dealings of the multimillion-dollar garbage operations, requiring the companies to open their books and premises. Prosecutors who asked for the appointment of the monitors said it was the first time a state court had granted such a pre-conviction safeguard. The monitors will be appointed in mid-November.
Seventeen individuals and 26 companies, including V. Ponte & Sons and Barretti Carting, among the best known private haulers in the city, were indicted in June. But with the criminal trial of the carters not scheduled to begin until early 1997, the Manhattan District Attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, said he would seek to give the monitors the authority to help regulate charges and thus save businesses in the city millions of dollars over the next 18 months.
"We believe they have been overcharging by 50 percent, and so the potential for genuine savings to clients in the city is great," Mr. Morgenthau said. "Without the monitors, it could have been back to business for the carters -- threats, exortion, collusion."
Prosecutors have said that if the carters are convicted, they will move to have the companies forfeit all assets, estimated to be worth roughly $268 million.
Frederick P. Hafetz, the lawyer who is coordinating the defense for the companies that were charged, portrayed the judge's decision yesterday as a defeat for prosecutors. He said Mr. Morgenthau's office had initially sought to take "direct decision-making control" of the companies and essentially allow the monitors to run the businesses.
"The District Attorney may try to put a good face on it, but it is a rejection of what he had sought," Mr. Hafetz said. "It is clear from the ruling that the decision-making process will not be taken away from the owners."
Justice Schackman ordered prosecutors and defense lawyers to work together over the next 60 days to iron out the specific terms of the financial oversight.
It has been an open secret for the last 30 years in New York that trash haulers and the unions representing their workers are linked to organized crime. One official report after another has accused the companies of acting together to obliterate competition and thus artificially drive up prices. But the indictments marked the first time prosecutors had come up with enough evidence to take on an entire industry critical to the city's economy.
The rare companies that have been bold enough to defy the major local carting outfits and make minor inroads into the city's $1.5 billion-a-year private garbage hauling industry have been able to offer office buildings and hospitals price reductions of from 300 to 1,000 percent.
Prosecutors built their five-year investigation in large part on the work of an undercover investigator who, they said, witnessed acts of violence and threats, participated in over 100 illegal payments totaling almost $800,000 and helped make hundreds of hours of incriminating tape recordings. Some of that evidence was presented to Justice Schackman, a civil court judge who was asked by prosecutors to order the monitors under the state's forfeiture law.
In making his ruling, Justice Schackman said that the evidence submitted by prosecutors established "a substantial probability" that convictions will result. And in agreeing to appoint the monitors, the judge concluded that it was "reasonable to infer from all the many details assembled by the plaintiff that the defendants, if left entirely to their own devices, would attempt to hide, dissipate or divert their booty."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; ORGANIZED CRIME; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; EXTORTION AND BLACKMAIL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (92%); EXTORTION (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CARTELS (76%); ARSON (73%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE; SCHACKMAN, WALTER M (JUSTICE) ROBERT M MORGENTHAU (69%); FREDERICK P HAFETZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



300 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Casinos Threaten Pageant As Symbol of Atlantic City

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER 

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, Sept. 13

 BODY:
For years the Miss America pageant was the only product -- besides salt water taffy and the Monopoly game -- firmly identified with this city. But that bond may be loosening, in part because of a revival of the casino gambling industry.
Though some of the old electricity still crackles around the pageant, the real star of the hour here is not a beauty contestant but an energetic casino operator, Stephen A. Wynn, fresh from Las Vegas with a long list of ideas on how to pump up the town's excitement level. 
 Mr. Wynn, head of Mirage Resorts Inc., is re-entering the Atlantic City scene after self-imposed exile in Nevada, where he almost single-handedly reshaped the gaming industry. He left Atlantic City in 1987 with much grumbling about overregulation by the state and a lack of cooperation, elements he said stifled people with imagination -- like himself.
In Las Vegas, he built the Mirage and Treasure Island mega-resorts that used spectacles like exploding volcanoes and sinking ships to attract ever-bigger crowds to his casinos.
His success there, and changes in the political climate here, have set the stage for applying the formula in Atlantic City, he says. And it is clear that the city and state -- alarmed by the hot breath of competition -- are listening to what he has to say.
As if on cue, the usually fractious City Council voted 9 to 0 to allow Mirage to develop a 150-acre landfill into a casino-resort unlike any of the 12 casino hotels that now occupy cramped properties along the boardwalk and marina.
"We're going to see more changes in the next 36 months than there's been in the past 10 years," said an exultant Mr. Wynn.
Several developments back up his forecast, including a loss of momentum for gambling in other states, including Pennsylvania and Florida.
In New Jersey, in response to charges that overly close regulation by the state was stifling the gaming industry here, some of the more restrictive regulations were lifted last year, like a requirement for background checks on maids and restaurant workers hired at a casino hotel.
Meanwhile, the easing of a long recession brought back players with more money in their pockets. July and August were the best two months on record in the amount of money the casinos raked in, helping push revenues for the year to $2.52 billion for the first eight months of the year.
Work is pushing ahead on a $225 million convention center and a companion 500-room hotel, scheduled for 1997 openings. Casinos already in operation will add another 2,000 hotel rooms, pushing the total above 15,000 for the first time. That figure is considered a minimum for increased airline and convention business, said James Kennedy, executive director of the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, a state agency that uses a levy on casinos for urban improvement projects.
Another need, adequate surface transportation in the 47-block-long city, is also being addressed. Gov. Christine Todd Whitman recently created a group to study ways to ease traffic and give visitors more mobility, especially as resorts like Mirage's planned $500 million casino-resort take shape away from the boardwalk.
"Things were bad enough when we had 10,000 casino hotel rooms and modest growth," said the group's chairman, James A. Crawford, director of the South Jersey Transportation Authority. "But in a few years we may have 19,000 to 25,000 casino hotel rooms and a new convention center."
There's also progress on a central corridor project that will link the new convention center with the boardwalk five blocks away, a plan intended to clean up the main gateway to the island city at the eastern end of the Atlantic City Expressway, replacing seedy streets and weedy lots with landscaped roads. But plans for filling the new concourse with boutiques and entertainment outlets are in limbo, city officials said.
Smaller in scale, but a powerful symbol of change for people who live here, is a modest shopping strip on Atlantic Avenue, the construction of which will give the city and its 37,000 residents a supermarket for the first time.
In danger of being pushed aside by all this change is the Miss America pageant, an annual fixture since 1921 (except a four-year suspension during the depths of the Depression). The design of the new convention center will not meet its special needs, and the future of its present home, the old convention hall, is in doubt.
"Every year the pageant officials suggest the city is not providing enough assistance and suggest other cities may be more willing to do so," said Louis Toscano, a senior policy adviser to Mayor James Whelan.
"If they left town tomorrow, we'd be sorry to see them go, but we wouldn't roll over and die," Mr. Toscano said, with words that in the past would have been regarded as heresy. "Twenty years ago, Miss America was the highlight of our year, but now it is one of any number of interesting events that take place here routinely."
For example, he said, the exhibition tennis match here last month between Monica Seles and Martina Navratilova received far more publicity worldwide than the Miss America pageant does. So will a matchup soon between the basketball stars Shaquille O'Neal and Hakeem Olajuwon, he predicted.
Leonard Horn, executive producer of the pageant, said he was shocked by Mr. Toscano's attitude.
"Miss America put Atlantic City on the map and we are the fourth oldest live event on television," said Mr. Horn, adding that despite the city's complacency, he had no intention of relocating.
"The pageant will remain in Atlantic City if the convention hall is not altered in some way that doesn't meet our needs," Mr. Horn said.
If that happens and the pageant is forced out by an uncaring city, then in some future September the contest's famous theme song lyrics may be altered to "There she goes, Miss America."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen A. Wynn of Mirage Resorts speaking at a news conference yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MIR (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MIRAGE RESORTS INC (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; BEAUTY CONTESTS; MISS AMERICA CONTEST GAMING (91%); CASINOS (91%); RESORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); CITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HOTEL STAFF (69%); RESTAURANTS (64%); RECESSION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (60%); LANDFILLS (50%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON; WYNN, STEPHEN A STEPHEN A WYNN (90%); JAMES KENNEDY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



301 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Blunt-Spoken Economist Is Japan's Mr. Yen

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 15

 BODY:
As the United States and Japan jointly push to strengthen the dollar against the yen, the Clinton Administration finds itself oddly aligned with a blunt-spoken economist here who argues that Japan should avoid American ideas about free-market capitalism.
Japanese Government officials, even more than their American counterparts, have desperately wanted a weaker yen to make Japanese exports cheaper and to shake off the country's enduring economic slump. 
 In fact, when the dollar surged past 104 yen today to its strongest showing in 15 months, Japanese markets reacted as joyously as if they had just seen a cloudburst after a yearlong drought.
The man behind much of the currency shift is Eisuke Sakakibara, who two months ago became head of the Finance Ministry's international bureau and has emerged as the de facto Mr. Yen. Government officials here say Mr. Sakakibara was the point man in discussions with Washington and the primary tactician behind Japan's latest efforts to sell yen and buy dollars.
An exuberant and iconoclastic man who got his doctorate in economics at the University of Michigan and taught briefly at Harvard, Mr. Sakakibara laughs easily and takes a distinctively un-Japanese enjoyment in provoking heated arguments.
But his American education and mannerisms belie a strong nationalist view about Japan's economic identity. He passionately criticizes Japanese advocates of "Americanism" who insist the country needs to untangle the maze of regulations and clubby business practices that make the market so difficult for foreign companies and even Japanese entrepreneurs to penetrate.
"If they believe in the universal value of Americanism," Mr. Sakakibara wrote last year in Hatsugensha, a monthly magazine, "the 'reform' they are attempting is nothing but an act of barbarism against our own national cultural values."
Taking a distinctly personal view, Mr. Sakakibara described his dismay at the crime and declining prosperity he saw in York, Pa., where he was a high-school exchange student in 1958. "This nice little town, to my surprise, was turning into a slum after 30 some years," he wrote. "The high school even had a metal detector at the entrance."
The lesson for Japan, he implied, was clear. In a 1990 book entitled, "Beyond Capitalism," Mr. Sakakibara strenuously argued that Japan's economic system should never be modeled on that of America.
In another recent magazine article, he wrote that those who argued that Japan needed to be more open, and perhaps to give up security blankets like the corporate practice of lifetime employment, were guilty of "hysteria" and "masochism."
"Do consumers and salarymen want destruction of the system?" he wrote. "The answer is clearly, 'No.' " Indeed, he said, there was no reason to believe that opening the Japanese market would reduce the country's trade surplus with the world or weaken the yen. "This theory is doubly wrong," he said.
For now, Japan and the United States are in broad agreement about the need to devalue the yen. Until recently, American policy had been to either support a strong yen -- which makes American products cheaper in Japan -- or to be indifferent.
But that changed after the dollar plunged just below 80 yen last spring, and Japan became more desperately mired as growth stagnated, real estate plunged and problem loans at banks grew to more than $400 billion.
From the American perspective, a Japanese economy that is too crippled to import is potentially more troubling than a strong dollar.
The upshot was a coordinated effort over the last month to begin pushing the dollar up and the yen down. In Japan, currency experts and Finance Ministry officials say Mr. Sakakibara's biggest contribution may have simply been his ability to charm and persuade Treasury officials that the time had come for action. Indeed, Mr. Sakakibara is said to be a close friend of Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary.
Despite his talkative nature, Mr. Sakakibara has tried to lower his visibility in recent days and has turned down all requests for interviews, including for this article. People close to him say Mr. Sakakibara has become worried about upstaging the Finance Minister, Masayoshi Takemura.
But currency experts and bankers say there is little doubt about who is in charge of the yen right now. "On Japan's side, it's been Sakakibara -- everyone knows he has become the strong person," said Mamuro Yamazaki, senior economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company in Japan.
"He is very sharp, and very good at communicating," said Hajime Shinohara, counselor at the Bank of Tokyo and a longtime friend of Mr. Sakakibara. "What strikes me about him are his abilities and his charm. He can be very persuasive."
Ultimately, currency values are set by global capital flows rather than attempts by central bankers. And the yen is getting knocked down by a host of other Government policies: the Bank of Japan slashed its discount rate to five-tenths of a percent last week, one of the lowest rates ever, and the Finance Ministry is planning to disclose another stimulus plan next week that would, if approved by the Parliament, provide more than $100 billion in new spending and tax breaks to stimulate the economy.
For the moment, however, most eyes are on the currency operation. Mr. Takemura, the Finance Minister, said this week that the yen still had further to fall and many traders believe the dollar could soon reach 105 yen. Given the dollar's continued push upward today, that seems very possible.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eisuke Sakakibara (Asahi Shimbun)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); YORK, PA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); YORK, PA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (74%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (74%); TRENDS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); METAL DETECTORS (66%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; SAKAKIBARA, EISUKE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



302 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P.'s Plan to Cut Medicare Faces a Veto, Clinton Promises

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
President Clinton said today that he would veto the Republicans' legislative package for Medicare and Medicaid. He said that their proposals for large savings in the Government health plans for the elderly and the poor would have "Draconian consequences" and would "dismantle Medicare as we know it."
Speaking to elderly people at the White House just 24 hours after House Republicans outlined their proposals, Mr. Clinton said, "If these health care cuts come to my desk, of this size, I would have no choice but to veto it." 
 The Republicans seek to cut $270 billion, or 14 percent, from projected Medicare spending during the next seven years. The magnitude of the savings is dictated by the Republicans' plan to balance the budget in seven years, a blueprint approved by both houses of Congress in June. But Republicans say the main reason for their Medicare proposals is to prevent the program's Hospital Insurance Trust Fund from going bankrupt.
Speaker Newt Gingrich's press secretary, Tony Blankley, said he was not upset by the President's comments. Instead, he said: "I am encouraged by that statement as I understand it. It suggests that the President has not had our proposal correctly explained to him. When the President has a chance to understand the bill, we think there is a very good chance that he will like what he sees and will want to sign it. Congressional Democrats have been irresponsibly misrepresenting our proposal."
Even while threatening a veto, Mr. Clinton urged elderly people to seek bipartisan support for changes in Medicare that would control costs without harming beneficiaries. "We ought to be here to build a bridge," he said.
Congressional Democrats, who have accused the Republicans of hiding crucial details of their plan, had pleaded with the White House to threaten a veto. The Republicans would sharply raise Medicare premiums for affluent elderly people, reduce payments to doctors and hospitals and let beneficiaries switch from Medicare to private health plans. The Democrats hoped that a veto threat would invigorate lobbyists for the elderly and labor unions that have championed Medicare for three decades.
Democrats and some moderate Republicans see a way out of the current impasse over Medicare. If Republicans would reduce their demands for tax cuts, for example, Democrats might negotiate some savings in Medicare. But such a compromise is probably months off. The House majority leader, Dick Armey, brushed aside Mr. Clinton's threat today. "The Democrats have a craven approach to Medicare, which is to let it go bankrupt in the long run for what they perceive to be short-term political gain," said Mr. Armey, a Texas Republican. "What they fail to realize is that public tolerance for demagoguery is at an all-time low."
A spokesman for Mr. Armey, Ed Gillespie, said the President's threat would not alter the course Republicans have set for themselves.
The budget blueprint would cut projected Medicaid spending by $182 billion, or 19 percent, during seven years. Medicare is for the elderly and disabled; Medicaid is for low-income people of all ages, including children and people in nursing homes.
Republicans say that Medicare's Hospital Insurance Trust Fund will go bankrupt in 2002 if the current law is not changed. Democrats contend that the money saved from Medicare will be used to balance the Federal budget and cut taxes for wealthy people.
In his speech today, Mr. Clinton denounced the Republicans' Medicare proposals. "Their plan would increase premiums and other costs for senior citizens," he said. "It would reduce doctor choice. It would force many doctors to stop serving seniors altogether. It threatens to put rural hospitals and urban hospitals out of business. Brick by brick, it would dismantle Medicare as we know it."
In June, Mr. Clinton offered a plan to balance the budget in 10 years. He said his plan would squeeze $124 billion of savings from Medicare and $54 billion from Medicaid during seven years. The Medicare proposals would have curbed payments to doctors and hospitals, but would not have increased premiums or other costs for beneficiaries.
Mr. Clinton acknowledged today that his proposals would save less money than the Republicans'. But he said the impact would be less severe. "You can have a healthy Medicare trust fund, you can have reductions in cost inflation in Medicare and Medicaid without these Draconian consequences," he said, referring to the effects of the Republican proposals.
Republicans contend that there is less difference between the White House and Congressional Republicans than Mr. Clinton suggests. They say Mr. Clinton would have to cut projected Medicare outlays by $192 billion to hit the spending targets he set for himself in June.
Congressional Democrats have spurned Mr. Clinton's proposal for Medicare savings. "I think it's too much," said Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader.
The White House position on Medicare differs noticeably from the President's more nuanced, cautious stance on separate legislation to overhaul the nation's main welfare programs. Mr. Clinton has tried to work with Congressional Republicans to cut a deal on welfare and has resisted appeals from liberals in Congress and the Administration who want him to make an explicit veto threat on that issue.
Representative Bill Archer, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said it would be helpful if President Clinton offered concrete proposals to save Medicare from bankruptcy, rather than threatening to veto the Republican plan.
Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee have drafted their own proposals to cut projected Medicare spending. The proposals are generally similar to those developed by House Republicans.
But initial estimates by the Congressional Budget Office suggest that the Senate proposals fall $30 billion short of the Republicans' goal of saving $270 billion in seven years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaker Newt Gingrich, left, and Ross Perot, the former independent Presidential candidate, discussed Medicare yesterday at a televised town meeting sponsored by the United States Chamber of Commerce. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; MEDICAID; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AGED MEDICARE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HOSPITALS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); APPROVALS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (67%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); MEDICAID (58%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ARMEY, DICK (REPR); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



303 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Golf Replaces Grazing In Vacation-Rich Vail

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: VAIL, Colo., Sept. 10

 BODY:
His lambs and ewes grazed peacefully in a high altitude meadow here, but Randy Campbell shifted uneasily in his saddle, pondering the golf courses marching down the valley floor below.
With eight golf courses in 20 miles of river valley, spring pasture land is rapidly vanishing for this fourth-generation Colorado sheep producer. 
 "All the spring range is being subdivided for golf courses," Mr. Campbell said as a crisp fall breeze rustled through a stand of lodgepole pines in the White River National Forest. "In the 1940's, there were 50,000 sheep in Eagle County. Now there are only 9,000."
Herding his hooved charges to the high range, Mr. Campbell battles obstacles his grandfather never dreamed of. His border collies must goad the nervous animals over a bridge spanning Interstate 70, a highway busy with trucks and tourist traffic.
In Vail, where million-dollar vacation homes are blooming like mountain thistles, homeowners increasingly complain about sheep nibbling on their neo-Alpine landscaping and about sheep littering driveways with their droppings. The path of least resistance dictates moving sheep through town just after dawn on Sunday.
If the tension between the old West and the new West plays out daily across the 1-million-square-mile Rocky Mountain region, the clash becomes almost a caricature in the narrow river valleys surrounding Vail, North America's largest ski mountain.
While the traditional economy limps, the tourist economy leaps.
So many vacation homes have been built here, a census revealed recently, that 72.2 percent of Vail's housing units were second homes -- up from 59.8 percent in 1990.
With newspapers describing Vail as "the emptiest city in Colorado," young working people wonder what kind of mountain community will emerge from Tokyo-style real estate prices.
"Who is going to live here in the future -- only wealthy retirees in second homes?" asked Mick Kelly, who this summer opened the Minturn Inn near Vail.
With real estate prices attaining the high, thin air of Rocky Mountain peaks, a broker advertised in the Vail Daily this Saturday a quarter-acre building lot on Forest Road. The asking price was $1.8 million.
Last week, Allen Black, the Eagle County assessor, announced that the county's assessed value of real estate is $6.5 billion -- up 35.6 percent over last year's level. With 29,000 residents, Eagle County now has real estate valued at the combined gross national products of Bolivia and Nicaragua.
Telescoping the geographic space that usually separates the United States's rich and poor, the magnificent, million-dollar mansions of the Cordillera development stand on mountain promontories directly above a trailer park housing Mexican restaurant and hotel workers.
"These castles are feudal," said Cliff Thompson, publisher of a local weekly, Vail Valley Times. "People are always looking up. It is very stressful."
Even flimsy housing for a mountain winter does not come cheaply. On Saturday, the Vail Daily advertised an "adorable and affordable" mobile home in the trailer park for $35,000.
Hotel and restaurant workers here earn about $15,000 a year. By contrast, the Hyatt Regency Beaver Creek, a Vail valley resort, offers this winter an "extravagant honeymoon package" -- a week-long stay that includes sauna, sleigh ride, dog sled ride and hot air balloon ride for the price of $13,999. In January, Vail plans to open a mountainside dining club, the Game Creek Club, where memberships sell for $75,000.
Denver's Roman Catholic Archbishop, J. Francis Stafford, has chided Vail and other Colorado ski resorts for creating "leisure colonies."
"What we risk creating is a theme-park 'alternative reality' for those who have the money to purchase entrance," the Archbishop said last year in a pastoral letter directed at the ski industry. "The births of infants on Medicaid have risen steeply throughout the region, since service jobs often do not include health insurance."
Towns, he said, must go beyond requiring that mansions include caretakers cottages. Setting an example, the Archdiocese is building low-income housing in the nearby towns of Carbondale, Gypsum and Silverthorne.
But the Archbishop's appeals fell on some deaf ears here. Last week, the Vail Village Merchant Association voted to oppose a sales-tax ballot proposal that would raise $3 million to improve bus service for resort workers forced to live outside the valley because of soaring housing costs.
Last winter, Vail's economic exclusivity proved to be its undoing. During blizzards, highway crews who lived in outlying mountain towns could not get to snowplows garaged at the resort.
"I-70 killed us last year, it closed 35 times -- snow, trucks jackknifing," groaned Paul Witt, a spokesman for Vail Associates, the company that owns the ski area. After investing $14 million this year -- largely in high-speed chairlifts, the resort needs a guaranteed stream of customers when the ski season starts in November.
To partly remedy the situation, Vail is providing housing this winter for six snowplow drivers.
But Colorado's booming tourism has done more this year than force the local telephone company to adopt a new area code for the Rocky Mountain part of the state. It is placing growing strain on Interstate 70, the sole highway link from Denver.
Over the last month, transit officials have clocked record volumes of cars going through the Eisenhower Tunnel, a 22-year-old Interstate tunnel that goes under the Continental Divide.
Further aggravating the ski area access problem, Denver inaugurated this April a new airport that is closer by car to Kansas than to Vail. On a Sunday afternoon, the drive from here to Denver International Airport takes three and a half hours -- the same time as the flight from New York to Denver.
Largely because of the access problem, readers of Ski Magazine bumped Vail from the top spot to the sixth ranking in a resort survey to be published in October.
Moving aggressively, Vail's tourism industry wooed airlines to the Eagle County's airport. Offering twice as many plane seats as two years ago, airlines this season will provide direct flights linking Eagle with 10 American cities.
But as 50 jets a week start landing here this winter, returning visitors may note that the century-old sound of freight train whistles will be fading out in the Eagle River valley. Last week, Union Pacific filed plans with the Interstate Commerce Commission to abandon freight service through the valley.
Left to their own devices will be the region's traditional, old West rail users: the wallboard factory in Gypsum, the limestone quarries of Salida, and the coal-fired electricity generating plant at Canon City.
Trying to look on the bright side, Allan Best, managing editor of the Vail Valley Times, said: "This could be the biggest opportunity in the country for a rail trail."
Stripped of rails, the railroad right of way could become another tourist attraction -- 173 level miles of trail for hikers, riders and trailbikers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As many as eight golf courses are among the developments signaling the changing life style in Vail, Colo.; Randy Campbell and Julie Hansmire have found that one of the best times to move their sheep through busy Vail is just after dawn on Sunday. (Photographs by David L. Cornwell for The New York Times)
 
Map of Colorado showing location of Vail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VAIL VILLAGE MERCHANT ASSOCIATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VAIL (COLO); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); COLORADO, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SKIING; GOLF; NYTRAVEL; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GOLF (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (78%); RIVERS (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); SKIING (73%); TRENDS (73%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); DOGS (69%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (67%); TRAILER PARKS (67%); HOTEL STAFF (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%); TAX ASSESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES RANDY CAMPBELL (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



304 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Monkey Jump Journal;
Will Cyanide-Tainted River Ever Be Seen as Safe?

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: MONKEY JUMP, Guyana

 BODY:
The mighty Essequibo River is once again colored a glistening sable, but Lilmati Goobin cannot shake the fearful vision of what it was like a few weeks ago when the jungle river ran an angry red and the Government warned her to keep her family away from its waters.
Except for what comes from the river, there is very little to eat or drink in this tiny granite-mining settlement of 17 huts on wooden stilts. Still, Mrs. Goobin and most of the 35 people who live here have stopped washing and fishing in the river and drinking the water. 
 They have stopped even though Government officials and independent experts from Canada, the United States and the United Nations now say the 685 million gallons of water tainted with cyanide and red clay that spilled into the Essequibo from a breached dam at a gold mine up river a few weeks ago have been almost completely washed out to sea.
Mrs. Goobin said that a few days after the ban was lifted her 19-year-old son, Inshan, cooked and ate a river mullet without telling her. Within hours, she said, his stomach was in knots.
The son recovered in a day, but most people in this isolated place, named for a treacherous channel over which monkeys are said to leap, believe that the river is still poisoned.
"It's a real horrible thing that happens when you can't go down to the river because you are scared," she said. "I don't believe it's safe yet."
There is no scientific proof that Mrs. Goobin's son or any of the other people along the Essequibo who have complained of stomach pains, skin rashes or dizziness got sick from the cyanide that is used at the mine of Omai Gold Mines Ltd. about 70 miles up river from Monkey Jump.
The mine has been worked for over a century. In the largest open-pit operation in South America, Omai scoops up gold-bearing rock and crushes it. The cyanide is mixed with water and used to help separate the fine particles of gold from the rock. The waste water is held in large ponds and recycled.
It was the rock-and-clay dam at the site that failed, allowing the tainted water to enter Omai Creek and finally the Essequibo. Federal guidelines in the United States consider cyanide levels below 15 parts per million to be safe. The water that spilled from the dam contained up to a lethal 25 parts per million.
Experts from the World Health Organization and other organizations have concluded that all the fish in the Omai Creek where it flows into the Essequibo River were killed when the cyanide-tainted water spilled from the dam.
But they said the steady flow of the Essequibo quickly diluted the cyanide to levels just above guidelines for safe drinking water. Cyanide also breaks down quickly in sunlight, so by the time the cyanide and clay reached Bartica, a town of more than 10,000 people five miles from here, it was harmless to humans.
Although the immediate danger appears to have passed, the fear and uncertainty have not. For Guyana, on the northern coast of South American and one of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere, the spill could prove very costly.
The Omai gold mine -- operated by Cambior Inc. of Val d'Or, Quebec, and Golden Star Resources Ltd. of Edmonton, Alberta -- employs about 1,000 local people and accounts for 3 percent of the country's gross domestic product and 10 percent of its foreign exchange.
The mine was shut soon after the spill was first reported, on Aug. 19, and will remain inactive until a parliamentary commission finds out what went wrong.
Fishermen who rely on the river for their livelihood have returned to their boats but cannot sell what they catch. Essequibo fish were not killed off by the cyanide, but no one is sure what the long-term impact will be.
Residents in Bartica and more than a dozen settlements have had to find alternate sources of water.
In a statement, Louis P. Gignac, president of Omai Gold Mines Ltd. said: "We are very distressed and embarrassed over what has occurred. Omai fully accepts responsibility for the accident and any legitimate reparation that is a consequence of it."
But some here doubt the company's sincerity.
The company has been offering fishermen about $1,200 in compensation for lost fishing days if they agree to make no further claims for damages. At last count 59 men, nearly all the members of a fisherman's co-op in Bartica, had accepted.
"I went in the office, they gave me a paper, and I marked it," said a 37-year-old fisherman named Kissoon. "I don't know to read or write. I thought it meant that they would pay now and then pay me again in a while."
Seeta Mohamed, a spokeswoman for Omai, said that no one was forced to sign anything and that the head of the fishermen's co-op explained the agreement to everyone who could not read or write. She said hundreds of additional claims from hunters, farmers and miners along the river were still being received.
Many along the Essequibo remain suspicious. "In the hearts and minds of the people," said the Rev. George A. Seng, an Anglican priest in Bartica, "that river is dead."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Essequibo River, shown here at Fort Island, Guyana, was poisoned by cyanide from a mine. (Phillip Diederich for The New York Times)
 
Map of Guyana showing location of Monkey Jump.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: GUYANA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: OMAI GOLD MINES LTD (65%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUYANA; ESSEQUIBO RIVER (GUYANA); MONKEY JUMP (GUYANA); GUYANA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; CYANIDE; MINES AND MINING; GOLD CYANIDES (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); GOLD MINING (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); STONE MINING & QUARRYING (76%); FISHES (75%); POISONINGS (74%); SURFACE MINING (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); WATER QUALITY (61%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



305 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Over 104 Yen as Officials Give Fresh Endorsement of Rally

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar extended its gains yesterday to above 104 Japanese yen, bolstered by fresh endorsements of the rally from the world's three largest economic powers.
Three officials, Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers of the United States; Hans Tietmeyer, president of the Bundesbank, and Japan's Minister for International Trade and Industry, Ryutaro Hashimoto, indicated separately that they favored further dollar appreciation. 
 The dollar traded late yesterday at a 15-month high of 104.15 yen, up from 102.40 Thursday. It also rose against the German mark, trading at 1.4885 marks, up slightly from 1.4866 late Thursday.
The officials appeared to be reaffirming their commitment to a declaration by the Group of Seven industrial countries in April that vowed to work for the orderly reversal of the dollar's decline against major world currencies. It was also a clear signal that they saw room for further gains.
Mr. Hashimoto was quoted in an article in Nihon Keisai Shimbun as saying that he favored the dollar's rise to 110 yen. Mr. Summers said in an American television interview that he welcomed the dollar's rise and added, "We're prepared to cooperate in foreign exchange markets with our G-7 partners." Mr. Tietmeyer told reporters after a French-German meeting that he hoped for continued corrections of distortions in currency rates and for a "global calming" of those rates.
Amy Smith, senior currency analyst at consulting firm IDEA Inc., said: "It took people a little by surprise, to come out so strongly simultaneously. It led everyone to think it was a warm-up for intervention."
The central banks did not step in, however, leading some investors to take profits.
The mark once again proved resilient as attempts to push the dollar above 1.50 failed. That only reinforced the view that the rally was more a function of yen weakness than dollar strength. European accounts were said to have been selling dollars for marks.
There were widespread rumors that the Chinese central bank was aggressively selling dollars for marks just below the 1.50 level to protect a large options position.
Analysts expect the dollar to remain well supported against the yen ahead of a Japanese fiscal package to be disclosed next Wednesday and possible intervention by the Bank of Japan and perhaps the Federal Reserve.
In other trading, the dollar fell to 1.2080 Swiss francs, from 1.2125 on Thursday. The British pound firmed to $1.5503, from $1.5484 on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GERMAN MARK (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); BRITISH POUND (68%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



306 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Bond Prices Slip On Report

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The Treasury market, hurt by a stronger-than-expected economic report yesterday, fought off the temptation of a full retreat but gave up some ground.
Traders said some investors took profits ahead of the weekend and sold securities to protect the gains made during the week. Futures trading, which influences cash market transactions, was soft, also bouncing off its lows after the release of higher-than-expected August production and capacity utilization data. 
 The strong numbers fueled speculation that the Fed will not ease rates at the Sept. 26 Federal Open Market Committee meeting. Traders said market participants who tried to cover short positions ahead of the data were hurt.
The price of the 30-year bond slipped 8/32 of a percentage point, to 105 8/32 ; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 6.48 percent, from 6.46 percent on Thursday.
Industrial production gained 1.1 percent in August, the biggest rise since December of last year. Economists had forecast a rise of four-tenths of 1 percent. The increase in capacity to 84.3 percent exceeded the forecast of 83.6 percent and reinforced those who expect the Fed not to act soon.
Anthony Chan, chief economist for Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio, said that the production report suggested the economy's weakest link should not be written off just yet. Not only were the numbers stronger than the consensus, but the prior month's numbers were also revised upward.
"Also supporting the market," Mr. Chan added, was this week's rally by the dollar.
Peter McTeague, a market analyst with MCM Money Watch in Boston, said bonds had been amazing. "Despite the bullish inflation news, the rally in the dollar and the Japanese buying, I sense they are at the crossroads here, with 6.40 to 6.50 percent yields on the long bond pivotal," he said.
The key uncertainties brewing, he said, were yesterday's production report, which he said took the Fed out of the equation for a credit easing this month, but the bond market has already priced in a rate reduction. "That's where the market appears to be mispriced, and with supply coming to the short end of the market in the next few weeks, a correction is in store," Mr. McTeague said.
Then there is the budget battle in Washington. "Everyone is bullish on the prospects, but there hasn't been any discounting of a possible train wreck," Mr. McTeague said. "If it's business as usual, bonds will spill. I'm looking for 6.75 percent on the long bond yield by the end of October."
Matthew F. Alexy, chief market strategist at CS First Boston, said yesterday that the December bond future contract lost half a percentage point on the release of the production and capacity data, only to rebound three-eighths of a point on a strong confidence number from the University of Michigan. The high was 114 27/32 , with the low at 114 6/32 , before closing at 114 17/32 .
He said the session was subjected to a fair amount of volatility, and he did not see the contract breaking out of the 114 to 115 range for about another 10 days. "It will take some strong numbers to push through this range," Mr. Alexy said.
Looking ahead to next week, Mr. Chan of Banc One Advisors said, "The trade data to be released next Wednesday may remind foreign exchange players that the celebration may be a bit premature and therefore shake up some of the bullish tone of the market, which continues to count on growing foreign interests, as the dollar continues to move higher." A strong dollar makes United States investments like Treasury securities more attractive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FUTURES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ANTHONY CHAN (75%); PETER MCTEAGUE (71%); MATTHEW F ALEXY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



307 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: A Future for Amtrak

 BODY:
To save intercity rail passenger service from ruin, Amtrak has been running trains less often and discontinuing others entirely, hoping to fashion a lean but viable system. Now to safeguard its future and secure a reliable source of funding for capital projects, the railroad seeks a permanent trust fund, similar to those in the highway and airline industries. Congress should support the plan.
The benefits of passenger rail service cannot be measured solely in terms of commercial profit and loss. It provides a form of transportation valued by millions of Americans and produces reduced highway and airport congestion and cleaner air, amply justifying some public expense. 
 The Amtrak trust fund plan calls for dedicating half a cent of the 18-cent Federal gasoline tax to the railroad, which would provide more than $600 million a year for improvements. The idea faces ferocious opposition, especially from entrenched highway interests. They resist sharing any part of Federal gasoline tax revenues with the railroads.
Amtrak, which has an overall budget of $2.4 billion this year, receives a Federal operating subsidy of $392 million. The subsidy is expected to drop to about $200 million in the next fiscal year. Congress has so far not threatened Amtrak with extinction.
The Senate Commerce Committee has approved the trust fund principle but the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure is balking. Bud Shuster of Pennsylvania, the committee chairman, is opposed to giving Amtrak any share of the gas tax that goes to the highway trust fund. He is willing to discuss letting Amtrak have some of the the gas tax that supports mass transit.
To his credit, Mr. Shuster is pressing for reform of wasteful labor practices that have crippled passenger lines. He insists on allowing Amtrak to contract out construction and other work now done at higher cost by union members and scrapping six-year severance pay for many employees, a stand that offers a chance to free Amtrak from ancient shackles.
Amtrak has been succeeding lately at its task of trimming uneconomical services and building on promising ones. The railroad's latest report indicates that more passengers are fitting into fewer trains, creating greater economies.
To hold old customers and attract new ones, Amtrak needs the kind of dependable capital financial structure that highway industries enjoy through a dedicated trust fund. It is an investment the country should make.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP) NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; SALES TAX; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); AIRLINES (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SALES TAX (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%); APPROVALS (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); 

PERSON: BUD SHUSTER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995



308 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
A Tough Act to Follow, And Democrats Know It

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON; Iver Peterson is the Trenton bureau chief of The New York Times.

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
When Senator Christopher J. Dodd got into his speech at the annual state Democratic dinner on Tuesday, the waiters and waitresses began filtering out of the kitchen to linger along the walls. The chairman of the Democratic National Committee recalled the glories of the Democratic Party -- student loans, family-leave policies, higher minimum wages, open doors to immigration -- and the lobbyists and lawyers and legislators who paid $500 each to be there applauded. But none of the paying guests were listening as raptly, or clapping as hard at the applause lines, as the workers who had just distributed the carrot cake with cream cheese and shaved chocolate icing.
Mr. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat, is an old-fashioned podium pounder who can rouse a crowd with the best of them, and he summoned the proud ghosts of Democratic champions: Franklin D. Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy, Sam Rayburn, New Jersey's own Woodrow Wilson. "We need to reconnect with the people of this country," he said, implicitly acknowledging that the party had somehow lost touch. 
 Meanwhile, last night in Edison, the Republicans held their annual dinner and dance, where the dress was tuxedos and gowns, not suits and dresses, and where the price of a seat was $1,500 for those who wanted to sit with Governor Whitman at the tables that ring the dance floor.
The Republican fund-raising event came too late to make this column, but it is a fair bet that nobody talked about raising the minimum wage, except to disparage the idea, or about instructing employers on how much paid leave new mothers should be given. Cutting government and passing the savings on to the voters is what New Jersey Republicans talk about -- not strengthening it, unless it is to get tougher on criminals.
Democrats may still ask the voters, "What do you need?" and the answer from people like the men and women working second jobs in hotel ballrooms is "Plenty." But Republicans ask, "What is your peeve?" and they get answers these days from those whose needs are few but whose gripes are legion: Taxes. Bureaucrats. State regulations. Those immigrants.
Still, New Jersey Democrats are nothing if not optimists, and if they think they are out of touch with the second-richest state in the union, they are not saying so. Few of them even hope the party can reclaim the Assembly in November's elections, but they have a strong sense that better days lie ahead. This faith rests on two unproven ideas: Democratic ideals of a caring government will return to fashion, and Mrs. Whitman will eventually self-destruct.
"All she has is an agenda, not a vision," said Alan Karcher, once a Speaker of the Assembly and more recently pressed into service as chairman of the Democratic organization in Mercer County, where Republicans have been making inroads.
"It's like an actor with a great opening act, but no second act," Mr. Karcher went on. "Her first year she said, 'I promised to cut taxes and I delivered.' Now it's her second year and her message is, 'I promised to cut taxes, I did it, and now we're in this great economic renaissance.' And people are saying, 'Whaaat?' "
Mr. Karcher is a smart old fighter and he may be right. Voters want to know what politicians have done for them lately, and Mrs. Whitman's decision to accomplish her 30 percent cut in income tax cuts in two years instead of three gave her a tremendous national bounce just as the Republicans were taking control of Congress, but it deprived her of a third year of stories about the centerpiece of her governorship.
Still, a year ago at this time it was an article of faith that Mrs. Whitman would be undone, not by ennui and overfamiliarity, but by a reaction against higher property taxes that would result from her freeze in state spending. The Governor bet that any local property tax pressure would be felt by local officials, not her. She has been right about that, so far.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (58%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); LOBBYING (73%); FAMILY LEAVE (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); FUNDRAISING (65%); 

PERSON: DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); PETERSON, IVER CHRISTOPHER DODD (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



309 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Now, a Debate Over Trolleys In South Jersey

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: WOODBURY

 BODY:
In the 25 years since Burlington and Gloucester Counties last had commuter rail service, people here have had good reason to suspect that mass transit is mainly for people in North Jersey.
But things may soon change. Next month, New Jersey Transit is expected to unveil its recommendations for a trolley line linking the Gloucester suburbs to Philadelphia via Camden, with a possible extension into Burlington later on. 
 As usual, financing is a big obstacle for a project that could cost more than $1.4 billion at a time when Congress is ill disposed to spend money on mass transit. But that hasn't stopped people from debating the two leading proposals for extending rail service to this Gloucester County city, about 10 miles south of Camden:
* Direct service to Philadelphia (a "one-seat ride," in railway jargon) on a new branch of the existing Patco line, which now serves the Camden County suburbs.
* The New Jersey Transit light-rail system, which would travel through the Camden waterfront and require a transfer to Patco line.
"If this project is done wrong, many people fear it will be the last project in South Jersey," said Donald Nigro, president of Delaware Valley Asssociation of Railroad Passengers, which strongly favors the direct link.
That sense of urgency underscores the demand for public transportation in this fast-growing area. Residents and public officials say rail service would improve air quality, ease congestion on highways like Route 42 and promote economic growth.
John F. Sutton, New Jersey Transit's director for new rail construction in the area, says the agency is likely to choose the proposal. For one thing, he said, it would cost less. It would ease access to the Camden waterfront, with its newly refurbished State Aquarium and the popular new Blockbuster-Sony Music Entertainment Center. And it would leave open the option of building a Burlington County line; Patco can accommodate only one new branch.
Perhaps most important, Mr. Sutton went on, New Jersey Transit's experience with its proposed trolley line on the Hudson River waterfront shows that light-rail lines are more attractive to private companies than trains are. That makes it more likely that some of the investment can come from the private sector.
The first stage of the New Jersey Transit project would be a 10-mile stretch from Camden to Woodbury that would cost $400 million; the second would continue the link to Glassboro. If construction begins in 1997, the line could be operating by 2001.
New Jersey Transit is not the only agency that favors a trolley line with a transfer to Patco. "Light rail is better," said Robert G. Schwab, general manager of the Lindenwold-based Patco, whose initials stand for Port Authority Transit Corporation. By contrast, he said, a new Patco line from Gloucester County would be "like having two lanes merging into one" and "might affect our 99 percent on-time performance."
None of this impresses supporters of a Patco extension. They point out that a 1993 New Jersey Transit study found that a trolley and transfer system would attract only 60 percent as many riders as direct service to Philadelphia.
"Too many people in New Jersey Transit are from North Jersey, and they look at South Jersey as a small-scale version of New York," said George G. Williams, chairman of the South Jersey Transit Advisory Committee to New Jersey Transit. "But it's a totally different environment. Driving to Philadelphia is not an onerous task, parking is less expensive, and essentially most people have a single-seat ride anyway, by car or transit. They're not used to the idea of a transfer here."
There has been less support in Burlington County for a proposed rail line from Camden to Mount Holly. Residents along the route say they are worried about the narrow railroad right-of-ways, safety and noise. There are also fears that crime will spread from Camden along the line -- a fear that Camden officials say is unfounded.
"We have a beautiful waterfront and we feel our city is on the move again," said June Morton, a city administrative analyst who has led the local campaign for a waterfront trolley. "But how are toursts ever going to get here if there aren't additional modes of transportation?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Transit advocates in Gloucester County say a trolley project (heavy line on map) could ease traffic jams like this one on Route 42 in Deptford. But not all agree on the route. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (65%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (65%); SOUTH JERSEY TRANSIT ADVISORY COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT SOUTH JERSEY TRANSIT ADVISORY COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; PHILADELPHIA (PA); GLOUCESTER COUNTY (NJ); BURLINGTON COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; TROLLEY CARS; SUBURBS; COMMUTING URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); COUNTIES (89%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); PORT AUTHORITIES (64%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



310 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 10; Column 6; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: PROFILE;
A Theater's Delicate Balance

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:
Lori Ott may have one of the toughest jobs at the innovative Crossroads Theater in New Brunswick. As director of development, she is responsible for raising the $2.3 million a year that allows the theater to put on 150 to 200 performances of plays by black writers and actors, or plays done from a black perspective.
The Crossroads season opens next month with "The Piano Lesson," by August Wilson. Recent highlights include "Flyin' West," Pearl Cleage's play about black women in Kansas in 1898, and last season's of "Two Hah Hahs and a Homeboy," starring Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee. 
 Because of the theater's mission of developing minority talent, Crossroads has some advantages in the daily scramble for money that goes on among nonprofit and charity organizations. But dwindling Federal arts support and tighter economic constraints for corporations, foundations and individual donors make the job a constant challenge. Crossroads has an accumulated deficit of $700,000 from 1993 and before, which it is working to pay off.
"It's complicated, and it's becoming more so," said Ms. Ott, 33, who has been in charge of Crossroads's fund raising since November. "Corporations, foundations and government have, for 5 or 10 years, recognized the work of ethnic-specific organizations with special programs to promote diversity. But money is tighter for everyone."
A talented fund-raiser is invaluable to any nonprofit group or charity. "It may be one of the few safe jobs in theater," said Bonnie J. Monte, the artistic director of the New Jersey Shakespeare Festival. "Not only do most organizations have a full-time fund-raiser; they have a staff. Fund raising is a big deal."
Ms. Ott oversees two full-time employees and one part-timer. Her wide-ranging duties involve spending hours on the telephone with potential money sources, filling out voluminous applications (many due at the same time) and arranging meetings between Crossroads administrators and foundation heads.
"There are yearly cycles in funding, so what I do depends on where we are in the calendar," Ms. Ott said. "Part of my job is to know what is happening at each time of the year. I also stuff envelopes once in a while, but we have a great volunteer staff that usually does that. I just have to make sure everything gets done."
Any fund-raiser has to start with a love of the cause, said Ms. Ott, who previously managed a theater company in Philadelphia. "That love is what is going to come through in your words or writing. 'My ability to successfully raise money is directly related to my ability to articulate the needs of the theater.
"The trick is to look at the threats that face you, the things you need money for, and find a way to connect that to the available corporation, foundation or government sources. I can tell you who the players are, what projects they want to do and how to connect them to the theater. You have to know every detail of the theater."
About half of the Crossroads budget comes from earned income -- for example, ticket sales. The other half comes from government sources (including the New Jersey State Council on the Arts, which has allotted Crossroads $250,000 for fiscal 1996, more than any other theater in the state except the McCarter in Princeton), foundations, corporations and individual contributions, in that order.
Ms. Ott finds her search for money further complicated because she is married to Jeffrey Woodward, the managing director of the McCarter, who is in competition for some of the same pots.
"We just agree not to talk about it," she said with a laugh, "but he's very supportive of the nights and extra hours that a fund-raising job involves."
Ms. Ott plans to leave her job soon to have their second baby but said she would consider returning to fund raising.
"It's challenging," she said, "and I enjoy it because the development effort is so close to all the aspects of the theater. It is a central job."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CROSSROADS THEATER COMPANY

ORGANIZATION: CROSSROADS THEATER COMPANY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FINANCES FUNDRAISING (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CHARITIES (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FESTIVALS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); WRITERS (72%); VOLUNTEERS (68%); 

PERSON: OTT, LORI; DEMASTERS, KAREN RUBY DEE (57%); OSSIE DAVIS (57%); AUGUST WILSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



311 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2073 words

HEADLINE: Money for Art's Sake

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
LIKE nearly all nonprofit galleries, Aljira: A Center for Contemporary Art, in Newark, is chronically low on cash. So it was natural that rather than pay someone else, the center would have its own artists design its stationery, brochures and invitations.
The people who received the letters and invitations, including donors and others in business, were struck by the jazzy, colorful look and began asking if the artists would design something equally distinctive for their companies. From that beginning, a cottage industry is emerging, along the lines of Trappist monks selling homemade jelly. Now Aljira has received a $50,000 grant to start a graphic design studio that should bring in a bit of cash to support its exhibitions of contemporary art. 
 At a time when New Jersey's arts groups are regrouping after budget cuts, trying to guarantee they will not simply survive but flourish in lean times, the kind of flexibility and innovativeness shown by Aljira is becoming more common. If most arts groups are not actually joining the profit-making business world, most are stretching way out to meet it.
"New Jersey is under a great deal of financial stress," said Barry Taylor, the president of Art Pride, an advocacy group based in Millville. Arts organizations that floundered in the early 1990's after the State Legislature cut the New Jersey State Council for the Arts' appropriation in half are looking for ways to insure financial stability in the coming years.
"It's the same environment we're all responding to," said Harris Ferris, managing director of the American Repertory Ballet in New Brunswick. "Concerns are mounting about long-term funding for the arts. Increasingly, there's concern about long-term, about making arts groups more cost-effective."
Last week his troupe merged with the smaller Garden State Ballet, which had lost its director and staff and was nearing bankruptcy. The combined forces, Mr. Ferris said, will perform in more counties, employ more full-time and freelance dancers, and probably receive support from the Garden State Ballet's contributors.
"This is lean-belly time," Mr. Ferris said. "Arts groups have to be highly adaptive. Funders don't want duplication."
It would be simple -- but inaccurately simplistic -- for people in government and corporations to regard New Jersey's arts groups as nonessential extras, pleasant but dispensable. It's up to arts administrators to convince donors that music, dance and theater performances and exhibitions of paintings, photographs and dinosaur bones are not just enlightening, civilizing forces, but economically crucial ones as well. Every group from major nonprofit institutions like the Newark Museum, with a $17.6 million budget this year, to rural county arts and heritage commissions, which count their dollars in the tens of thousands, faces the same fundamental mission. They have to make those with the money see that the arts put cash in the pockets of people as various as corporate executives, computer salespeople and falafel sellers.
"When the New Brunswick theaters are filled, the restaurants are filled and the parking lots are filled," said Nina Stack, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey State Council on the Arts. "People walk around town and go shopping. Those places pay taxes, and the revenue comes back."
Today, corporations want to know they're getting something in return for their contributions. "The philanthrophic mood has changed," said Victor Davson, Aljira's executive director. "Cultural institutions are under tremendous pressure to make art justify itself, to show that giving that giving X amount of dollars to the arts will generate X amount of dollars."
Which, the state has determined, it will. The Council on the Arts, which administers state spending, has estimated that 600 nonprofit arts groups and their audiences' spending contributed more than $643 million to the state's economy in 1993. Attendance at New Jersey's museums, concerts, plays and so forth came to nine million that year, including 600,000 children on field trips.
That was the year when, under Gov. Jim Florio, the state drastically cut its arts support . In 1989, the council distributed more than $21 million appropriated by the Legislature to 120 private arts groups and 21 county arts agencies. The counties, in turn, distributed the grants to about 350 regional groups. By 1992, the money had been cut by more than half, to $9.7 million. Last year, the appropriation rose to $10.2 million, where it remains.
"State funding has remained at an even level," said Bonnie J. Monte, director of the New Jersey Shakespeare Festival in Madison, the state's only wholly classical theater, which also produces student plays in schools. "But we all envision bigger cuts down the line. We all envision very hard times down the line."
 
Sinking, Then Rising
In the wake of the big state cut, which coincided with Federal cuts and a recession, some organizations went deep into the red. The budgets of a few like the Newark Museum -- known for one of the country's most extensive scientific collections, galleries of American, Asian and African art, and children's programs attended by more than 100,000 last year -- were not affected. Most, like the American Boychoir School in Princeton and the American Repertory Ballet, floundered but have recovered, more or less.
"We cut back to the bone," said Mr. Ferris of the ballet. "There were layoffs and cancellations of weeks of the season. There was a shakeup of the board. All the pieces were almost falling apart and being put back together." Now, he said, the ballet is financially strong. Last season it gave a record number of performances and pulled in high touring revenues.
The state cuts also shook the American Boychoir School, a boarding school with 82 students, ages 10 to 14, who perform around the country. The early 90's "were very tough years for us," said John Ellis, president of the school. Wages were frozen and tours were reduced. Now, he said, the directors see the need for "substantial permanent endowment funds" to guarantee that future government cuts won't hurt the school again. The Boychoir School's goal is to increase the $400,000 endowment established in 1994 to $5 million by the year 2000.
The school's fund-raisers "are turning more vigorously to individual friends," Mr. Ellis said. "We've involved the board of trustees personally in phone calls, dinners, lunches, visits. We need to look to corporations and foundations -- the people who live here, who don't want to have to go to New York or Philadelphia for the arts."
 
Doing More Homework
To arts administrators, it's ever more crucial that individual and corporate donors hear their message as the Federal Government becomes less and less receptive to it. The Republican leadership in Congress has made clear its intentions to abolish the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. That would mean no Federal money would go to the visual arts, architecture, opera, dance, literature or broadcasting.
By comparison, the New Jersey Legislature gave more than $5 million last year directly to six major organizations: the New Jersey Symphony, the Newark Museum, the Newark Boys Chorus, the Morris Museum, the Sussex County Arts Council and the Union County Arts Center.
Groups that have seen their government contributions dry up are expanding their fund-raising, seeking ways to be secure regardless of the politicians' views. Their ways of coping may be as major as the ballet merger or as subtle as a shift in attitude. Some have grown a bit more pushy in communicating their cultural, educational and economic virtues.
Steven Klindt, the executive director of the Morris Museum in Morristown, is trying to make people "want to participate in a modest way" by making regular contributions. His museum's collection includes dollhouses, rocks, works by New Jersey artists along with a single Rembrandt, and live flying squirrels in the basement.
Alexandra Christy, a senior program officer at the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation in Morristown, one of New Jersey's leading private donors to the arts, says the grant proposals it is now receiving are more tightly focused and more detailed.
"People have to be very smart," she said. "They are not deciding what plays to put on from an artistic, creative point of view, in a vacuum. They are actually going to the audiences and asking: 'What do you need? What do you want? What would make you come to the theater more often?'
"There's been a very wide gulf between the people who deliver arts and the ones who receive them," she added.
One attempt to bridge the gulf is the Governor's Conference on the Arts in Trenton next week. Hundreds of business leaders, politicians, arts administrators and community leaders are expected to attend.
Meanwhile, arts groups are forming their own alliances to make themselves smarter about money. One such consortium of 22 New Jersey philanthropies called Arts Challenge gave Aljira in Newark the $50,000 to start its graphic design studio.
Mr. Davson, Aljira's director, is a painter who studied art at Pratt Institute and founded the gallery with a fellow artist in a loft. After the grant came through, he went to Babson College near Boston and Harvard Business School to learn a new art: that of running a profit-making business.
He said he did not expect profits ever to cover the center's annual budget of slightly less than $200,000. "It's not to get wealthy,' he said. "If we can make a profit the first year, that would be brilliant."
Selling graphic design work is one tactic that would spread the gallery's name and impress donors who don't expect such practicality from painters and sculptors. "A lot of the work will be humdrum," he said. "We'll be willing to do the most boring projects: corporate documents, government agency reports." Part of the studio's mission would be to sell distinctive designs to business administrators who've never considered design important.
Ms. Christy of the Dodge Foundation said of Aljira's project: "It's a real effort to bring in earned income. That's the name of the game."
More important than earning income, however, is convincing people that the arts organizations' first and foremost purpose -- producing, showing and teaching the arts -- is worthy of their support. That involves spreading the word about the arts' enriching value and widespread popularity among people of all ages and incomes.
The New Jersey Symphony played free concerts last summer in eight parks throughout the state and brought as many as 10,000 children to special concerts. At a Hoboken community center, an actor from Elders Share the Arts helped older people write their life stories and produce from them a play, a history of Hoboken. The Poetry Center at Passaic County Community College encourages people who never gave poetry a thought to write about their own experiences and emotions.
In Salem County, one of New Jersey's smallest and most rural, the Salem Cultural and Heritage Commission pays for three sopranos to sing at nursing homes, and for the Oakwood Summer Theater, where audiences see popular shows like "Annie Get Your Gun." The Salem cultural commission was among the 20 or so distinguished arts organizations named by the state arts council, sharing honors with groups like the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra and the McCarter Theater in Princeton.
People from organizations large and small go into schools, where, they say, they do some of their most important work. Arts groups are working to see that "more money is put into arts than football jerseys," said Ms. Christy of the Dodge Foundation. "They are making sure the superintendent knows what's being taught when the arts are being taught. It's developing the entire creative realm of kids. It's not just for future artists."
The extraordinarily sophisticated 30,000-year-old cave paintings found recently in the south of France make clear "that the human animal needs to create," Ms. Christy said, and went on: "It's not just a luxury for people with time on their hands. It's obviously a primal need. People were doing it when there was no such thing as rich and poor, and Republican and Democrat, and the N.E.A. and N.E.H. Art is not a sandbox for the rich. It's how we survive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dancers from the American Repertory Ballet, top, performing at the Newark Museum; students at the American Boychoir School. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); BALLET (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PAINTING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); DANCERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); THEATER (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); 

PERSON: STEWART, BARBARA HARRIS FERRIS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



312 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: To Find New-Issue Players, Use a Scorecard

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
IF the stock market has been a party in 1995, nowhere have the champagne corks popped more loudly than among initial public offerings. So: Here's to Netscape Communications, an Internet venture which rose 167 percent during its first day.. Here's to Redhook Ale, a Seattle microbrewer, up 68 percent since its debut in mid-August. And then there's Premisys Communications, a maker of telecommunications equipment, up an astonishing six-fold since April.
It's not just a few standouts, either. Three of every four new issues over the last 12 months have surpassed this year's soaring stock market, and dozens have doubled in price. "God should be so generous every 12 months," said John Fitzgibbon Jr., editor of the IPO Aftermarket. 
 Nor do these gains come at the expense of common sense, at least by some lights. "The real surprising thing," said John Laporte, the manager of the T. Rowe Price New Horizons Fund, "has been that the quality level has been good and remains good." And given a chugging economy and the public's strong appetite for equities, it may be a long time till last call.
But, for common investors, hoping either to join the festivities or just to watch them, the I.P.O. market can be frustrating and confusing. At their best, I.P.O.'s are often tough to assess, with a short history and no record of stock-price behavior. Mix in the notably high-tech nature of this year's I.P.O.'s -- one-third are technological issues -- and the confusion soars. What is the everyman investor to make of On Technology Corporation, for instance, which "develops, markets and supports groupware applications and workgroup utilities software"?
These puzzlements stymie many investors, and Andrew Santer, a consulting pharmacist in Santa Barbara, Calif., is one. of them. "They don't interest me anymore," he said of I.P.O.'s in general. "You can't get enough information to evaluate them."
For investors and the idly curious, one way to get a handle on this riveting but perplexing market is to watch the underwriters who make it happen. While nearly all of them look downright uncanny these days -- just about everything has taken off -- a close examination of their records will show that some underwriters are quicker to spot promising young companies, or detect emerging industry trends, than others, and some have hit low points, even in this skyhigh market.
"If you don't know the horse," said Mr. Fitzgibbon, "you can bet the jockey."
Robert Natale, editor of Standard & Poor's Emerging and Special Situations newsletter, agrees. "The better the underwriter, the better the deal," he said. "The best deals are going to come out under the aegis of excellent corporate finance and excellent research capability."
More specifically, the ability of a firm's analysts to convince investors to buy an issue is critical to how well the stock will perform in the months ahead. And underwriter support of the stock can play a large role in its fate -- especially after the initial euphoria has faded.
Nearly 200 new issues are slated for debut before the end of 1995. They include such eagerly awaited names as Gucci, the Italian shoemaker; Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, the investment bank; Boston Beer, the maker of Samuel Adams; and ESS Technology, a semiconductor outfit. What does it mean that the lead underwriters for these companies are, respectively, Morgan Stanley; Donaldson; Goldman, Sachs and Morgan Stanley? How should these link-ups affect your view of the future of the new stock? Here is a scorecard to help form answers:
The name of the nation's star underwriter depends a bit on definitions. Some firms have hit lots of home runs over the last 12 months, others seem to have played for consistency, and still others are industry or regional specialists.
The firms with more than their share of recent home runs range from huge Goldman, Sachs, which raised a fifth of the $20 billion in I.P.O.'s done in the last 12 months, to much smaller outfits, like Cowen & Company in New York and Robertson Stephens in San Francisco.
Goldman, Sachs has been able to hit eight of its 28 I.P.O.'s out of the park -- a doubling or more in price -- by virtue of its sheer marketing and research muscle. .
The other home-run hitters have scored by being in the right sector -- technology -- at the right time. Alex. Brown, with only a quarter of Goldman, Sach's share of the market, has seen an equal number of its I.P.O.'s double or more in price, including Epic Design Software and CBT Group, another software developer.
"The wind has been to our back with technology stocks," conceded Sandy Robertson, chairman of Robertson Stephens. Seven of the firm's 22 I.P.O.s, including Discrete Logic and Orbit Semiconductor, have doubled or more in price.
Cowen & Company, which has a strong reputation for expertise in technology, has done not only well, but consistently so with only a handful of I.P.O.'s. The company was the lead manager of four I.P.O.'s over the last year, with an average gain of an astonishing 176 percent. When some people held off bringing semiconductor companies public out of fear of a seasonal slump, Cowen listened to the contrary advice of its researchers and brought Semitool and Brooks Automation public last December. Both have more than doubled in price.
Since picking the home runs ahead of time is difficult, investors should prize the consistency of Cowen or of Robertson, Stephens, all of whose I.P.O.'s over the last year have beaten the overall market. Some of the less well-known firms -- William Blair, J.C. Bradford and Needham, for example -- also had perfect batting averages, but with fewer I.P.O.'s than bigger firms like Alex. Brown or Morgan Stanley.
Consistency is especially prized given that some underwriters have had significant strikeouts: I.P.O.'s that lost money even as the overall stock market gained 25 percent this year. "The best underwriters sometimes bring out clunkers," said Mr. Natale of Standard & Poor's.
Sometimes, the misstep is simply a case of being in the wrong place. With international markets having dismal years, firms that underwrote American depository receipts -- certificates of foreign stocks -- have had frequent strikeouts. Three of the four money-losing I.P.O.'s from Goldman, Sachs, for instance, are A.D.R.'s in such companies as Internacional de Ceramica, a Mexican ceramic tile maker. J.P. Morgan, which only had four I.P.O.'s, fared poorly with two A.D.R.'s -- Banco Industrial Colombiano and Banco Wiese Ltdo.
Sometimes, the bad luck consists only of not being in the right place.Lehman Brothers has had few tech issues over the last 12 months, when such I.P.O.'s have proved the most profitable. The scarcity shows: Lehman's average deal during this period has underperformed the market by 7 percentage points. Last year, Lehman had eight technology I.P.O.'s.
"It's just a timing issue when our clients decide to finance," said Marc Paley, the head of the syndicate desk for Lehman. Mr. Paley also emphasized that Lehman continues to do many secondary offerings for technology companies -- 18 over the last 12 months -- and that its record in the sector should be viewed only in that context.
For other underwriters, including some who have been very successful in the past, the mistakes are more diffuse. Despite Merrill Lynch's good record with such past I.P.O.'s as Boston Chicken, only half of Merrill Lynch's 16 deals beat the market over the last 12 months, for example. Of course, the underwriter's record is just one factor in judging the potential of an I.P.O., noted Linda Killian, a research analyst for Renaissance Capital, a money management firm in Stamford, Conn. "What it really comes down is the particulars of the transaction and the price and whether you can make money."
And, of course, current success is no indicator of future results. Some of 1994's high riders have fallen in 1995, and the same can happen to today's leaders. Beware, too, of Wall Street's version of striking while the iron is hot: using a temporary hot streak to push defective issues onto unsuspecting investors.
 Moreover, though many think the party will go on, some say it may be close to last call. "We are now in the midst of an overheated technology market," wrote Robert Sanborn, portfolio manager of the Oakmark Fund, to his shareholders. Calling the phenomenon IPO Mania Redux, he has decided not to participate in any of these offerings.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Hitters and Hackers" lists the best and worst underwriters for the 12 months ended Aug. 31. (Source: Securities Data Company) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SYMC (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: SYMANTEC CORP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); TRENDS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); BONDS (75%); BREWERIES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (62%); 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



313 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2642 words

HEADLINE: Foiling the Best Laid Plans;
Hard Realities Roil the Irvine Company's Tidy California Dream

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: IRVINE, Calif.

 BODY:
IF there are two words that sum up this obsessively planned city of 120,000 in the heart of Orange County, they are symmetry and order.
In Woodbridge Village, the largest subdivision here, there is a central corridor of churches, shopping centers and low-rise office buildings with nearly identical manmade lakes on either side. Spreading out from their banks are similar wood-framed town houses, thickets of oleander and tract housing. Businesses, and homeowners, are strictly regulated so they do not upset the buff-hued color scheme. And in a city dedicated to healthy living, there is no cemetery. 
 This neatly packaged version of the California Dream, 50 miles south of Los Angeles, is the creation of the largest designer and developer of master-planned communities in America -- the deceptively low-key Irvine Company and its secretive owner, Donald L. Bren. The privately held company is a sprawling behemoth that began as the Irvine family ranch in the 1860's. Its properties today sprout everything from the state's biggest producer of avocados to shopping malls, hotels, office towers and affluent towns like Newport Beach. And its influence is just as pervasive.
"Their fingerprints are on everything that happens here," said Louis Masotti, head of the real estate program at the University of California at Irvine's management school.
But the Orange County Government's bizarre bankruptcy last December, and then the voters' angry rejection of a tax increase that was supposed to clear up the mess, has turned this seemingly harmonious landscape into a complex, unruly battleground. And all this comes at a time when the county, once nearly all-white and affluent, is in the midst of deep demographic and economic changes of the sort that many residents came here to escape.
No one has more at stake in the outcome of the bankruptcy battle -- and the social contours of the county's future -- than the Irvine Company, which has the mixed fortune of owning a wonderful stretch of land that is concentrated in just one, troubled place. "Their future depends completely on the county's viability," said Mr. Masotti.
As a result, a company that has been compulsive about controlling its environment is now at the mercy of that environment. And a company that always saw its future in clear, bold strokes is now facing the sort of uncertainty its planners had tried to sweep away.
Drastic county budget cuts and the struggle by local and state officials to hammer out a financial rescue plan are producing big reductions in county services and thus a threat to property values. According to the rescue plan passed by the state Legislature in the last day of its session Friday, the county will have to make steep cuts in bus service and cut hundreds of jobs in order to divert funds to repay creditors.
And no matter how successful the plan, the county's troubles will persist for years. Already, it appears that the weak market and the lingering effects of the recession may have forced the company to defer offering interests in some of its real estate holdings to the public.
Nevertheless, company executives continue to express confidence in their long-term prospects. "Is this going to hurt us in the long term?" asked Raymond L. Watson, who is the company's vice chairman and its original urban planner, as well as the former chairman of the Walt Disney Company. "I don't think so. But getting to the long term from where we are could be difficult."
To some extent, the Irvine Company is Orange County. It owns a sixth of the county's land, about 90 square miles stretching from the hills above the Pacific coast to the Cleveland National Forest, 22 miles to the northeast. Its developments are often praised for their quality and planning, and they are a big reason Orange County has enjoyed a reputation as a pleasant alternative to Los Angeles.
The Irvine Company leaves little to chance in any field of endeavor. The company is also a well-oiled political machine with an outsized influence over the election of everyone from town supervisors to the state's Governor -- and perhaps the next President of the United States.
MR. BREN is one of the national Republican Party's top financial contributors and he is the finance chairman for the presidential campaign of his close friend and former Marine buddy, Gov. Pete Wilson of California. Last year, Mr. Bren, his companies and his employees contributed more than $210,000 to Governor Wilson's re-election campaign. When one of Mr. Bren's executives gets involved in a political battle, no one here doubts that Mr. Bren is calling the shots.
"Nothing happens at the company that he doesn't have his hands on, from the color of a door knob to the types of trees at Fashion Island," said Mr. Watson, referring to the tony shopping mall that the company owns in Newport Beach.
During the lengthy and often acrimonious negotiations over the county's financial crisis, Mr. Bren's top political operative, Gary H. Hunt, has been a constant presence.
"We are vigorous in representing our own interests, wherever we see them," Mr. Watson said, adding, "That is what we are supposed to do. It's part of what we are."
The focus of all this influence, and the unusual challenges, is the reclusive Mr. Bren, 63, a trim, well-tanned executive whose relationship with the Irvine Company began when he was a well-to-do home builder in Orange County in the 1960's and 70's. Mr. Bren, who declined to be interviewed for this article, constructed two developments for the company and then, in 1977, bought an interest in it from the Irvine family by resorting to what many criticized at the time as a political dirty trick.
He had teamed up with some wealthy investors, including the shopping center magnate A. Alfred Taubman, Henry Ford 2d, the late Milton Petrie, founder of Petrie Stores, and Herbert Allen Sr., a New York investment banker. Their group was competing with the Mobil Corporation for what was still known as the Irvine Ranch. The financial heft of Mobil, the giant oil company, gave it a big advantage.
But suddenly ads appeared in major newspapers on May 4, 1977, from a previously unknown group called the Committee for Energy Resources. The ads chastised Mobil for throwing money away on real estate instead of drilling for more oil.
"Is Mobil Turning Its Back on America During Our Energy Crisis?" asked the ads, which encouraged people to complain to Congress.
Mr. Bren soon confirmed reports disclosing that he had secretly helped finance the ads -- through Mr. Hunt. "I think that ad won us the deal," said one of the investors in the group. The group paid $337.4 million for the ranch, just edging out a suddenly hesitant Mobil.
In 1983, when the investors decided to take their profits, Mr. Bren bought them out for $518 million, a deal financed largely with bank debt. That gave Mr. Bren slightly more than 92 percent of the stock. Today, he is reportedly worth at least $2 billion and the company is as politically active as ever.
Mr. Hunt is now an executive vice president at the company. He was a special assistant to Ronald Reagan when Mr. Reagan was Governor of California, was a deputy director of the 1980 Republican National Convention and was a vice chairman of President Reagan's first inauguration committee. The company's spokesman, Larry Thomas, was a press secretary to Pete Wilson when he was mayor of San Diego and for George Bush when he was Vice President.
Mr. Bren, frequently referred to as a shy man, clearly enjoys his wealth. He lives in a $5 million mansion near the ocean and is an avid skier. The son of a Hollywood producer, Mr. Bren is now a bachelor, with three children by two ex-wives and, the company has confirmed, a a child by a longtime companion.
What clearly makes this such a trying time for Mr. Bren is that he has traditionally fought to control everything that goes on in his company and thus, by extension, the county. (The company professes, however, to have had no role in the investing decisions that led to the county's bankruptcy.)
The clearest sign that the company's control is loosening was the angry rejection in June of a half-cent increase in the local sales tax. The Irvine Company and other supporters of the plan -- which Mr. Hunt helped design -- outspent their opponents by a lopsided margin of about $1.5 million to about $85,000, but it did not help. Some of the tax's opponents characterized the overwhelmingly negative vote as a referendum on the power of the Irvine Company and other big developers. In the aftermath of that rejection, the county and the state Legislature worked out an alternative financial plan that is likely to end the banckruptcy early next year, but not without a substantial reduction in services.
Mr. Bren has long been hypersensitive about his image as well as that of his company, fighting aggressively for the right to build, but backing down on some occasions when faced with strong public opposition. For instance, the company agreed several years ago to abandon a proposed development on some canyon lands near Laguna Beach and instead sell them for preservation as a park. In another instance of conciliation, it abandoned its initial refusal to provide low-income housing here.
"The Irvine Company is a funny animal," said James Toledano, head of the Democratic Party here and the lawyer for a group fighting a road project the company backs. "Of all the developers in the county, they are probably the most responsive. I think they have figured out how to use their leverage as subtly as possible. For their own selfish interests they are prepared to be good citizens."
Good citizenship has its frustrations. The company had wanted to obtain 800 acres of prime property on the El Toro Marine Air Station, a military base here that is going to be closed down and turned into a big international airport. But earlier this year it was forced to drop an offer to give the county thousands of acres of less valuable land at its eastern end in exchange for the prime site the company wanted.
And residents of the city of Irvine have fought the airport conversion bitterly because of fears their quiet community would be overwhelmed with noise and traffic. The proposed land swap was perceived by some here as a blatant grab for wealth, and ended up giving the company a black eye.
"The future of El Toro is pivotal to the future of Orange County," said Republican Representative Dana Rohrabacher, one of the county's Congressmen, who fought the swap. "Hundreds of millions of dollars were going to be given to a major corporation in that stupid deal. It would have been an amazing ripoff."
A casualty of the uncertainty caused by the bankruptcy, and the slowness of the real estate market in the long California recession, may be what apparently was Mr. Bren's long-planned exit strategy -- heavy new development and the public offering of a series of real estate investment trusts, or REIT's, that would have created a liquid market for part of his holdings.
One REIT, Irvine Apartment Communities, which holds the company's apartment buildings, went public in December 1993 at $17.50, and the company made a second offering this year at $17.25.
THE first REIT rose initially to $21.75 but then slumped to a low of $14.25 in December of last year, just around the time the county declared bankruptcy. This year, however, with the California real estate market just starting to show signs of recovery, it has risen 12 percent, from $16.625 on Jan. 3 to $18.625 Friday. But none of the other offerings look even close because of the weakness of the REIT market and because of the county's troubles.
"This may cause him to rethink his plan entirely or to take a new look at other options," said James F. Wilson, an analyst who follows REIT's for Montgomery Securities.
Still, the Irvine Company remains in fairly solid shape. Indeed, one of the more puzzling aspects of the county's bankruptcy, caused by the former treasurer's reckless losses of $1.7 billion from a county investment fund, is that it is still far from clear what impact it is having on the area, a bustling region with an economy the size of Greece's.
The biggest problem has just been uncertainty -- whether the decline in county services will cut into the area's high quality of life, whether residents will eventually suffer a big tax bite, whether the schools will be hurt. And that has translated into a big drop in home sales, which have fallen close to 30 percent this year countywide.
Nevertheless, the Irvine Company's high-quality projects have fared slightly better. Its latest residential project, called Newport Coast, which will eventually consist of 2,600 housing units, has already sold nearly 200 custom lots at an average cost of more than $1 million.
But the company has still had to endure some belt-tightening. It cutting staff sharply, from about 1,500 in the late 80's to about 200 today. In addition, while the company does not release financial data, its revenues have reportedly been flat the last three years, at about $800 million.
One of the greatest challenges the company faces is the fact that the county had been going through profound changes even before the bankruptcy. Twenty years ago, the county was largely white and affluent, and many of its towns were still regarded as suburbs of Los Angeles. Today, 38 percent of its 2.6 million residents are ethnic minorities; Santa Ana, the county seat, is 73 percent Hispanic and the cities of Westminster and Garden Grove are home to about 110,000 Vietnamese.
The county has many pockets of great affluence, but its per capita income, $25,022 in 1993, the latest year for which figures are available, was sixth in the state. Assessed property values per capita were 15th in the state in 1993 and the median price of a home has dropped since the bankruptcy, from $220,176 last December to about $190,000 last month.
About 200,000 Orange County residents are now living below the poverty line, a number that has been growing at about twice the rate of the overall population in recent years, according to Mark Baldassare, chairman of the University of California at Irvine's department of urban and regional planning.
"The image is really based on the economic character of just a handful of cities," said Mr. Baldassare.
BUT perhaps the greatest contradictions lie in the county's political character. The area is heavily Republican and thinks of itself as libertarian. In reality, however, the residents have fought for environmental protection. Businesses face an extraordinary level of regulation. And taxes -- in the form of a stream of special assessments to pay for neighborhood amenities and services -- are among the highest in California.
"It's always struck me as remarkable that politically Orange County is seen as so conservative and, lo and behold, you have a master-planned city with high taxes," said Larry Agran, a former mayor of Irvine and himself a candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1992. "There is a heavy degree of central planning of everything here, with more regulations on businesses than in most other places. But it is democratically imposed regulation. The people say they want it."
And the Irvine Company has wanted it. From the time it began to build cities on what had been dry, hilly grazing land, the company has looked at its vast holdings as a private preserve on which it would shape the future -- and is still struggling to do so.
"What do you want to be thought of when you die? That's the view Don takes of his work," said Mr. Watson, who was trained in architecture. "He's an outstanding developer who believes in what he owns. This is his canvas. In a way, he's more of an architect than I am."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Planning has always been the key to success for the Irvine Company, its owner, Donald L. Bren, and the city it created. But Orange County's troubles are proving hard to tame. (John Harding) (pg. 1); Irvine Ranch; Newport Coast; Jamboree Center; Irvine Spectrum (Irvine Company) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (94%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (94%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IRVINE CO THE IRVINE CO (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRVINE CO UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BANKRUPTCIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); BUDGETS (86%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RETAILERS (72%); LAKES (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (70%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (67%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES DONALD BREN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



314 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Radio Frenzy Brings Riches

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
There's a lot of money in radio these days. The value of companies that own radio stations has zoomed this year, amid optimism that companies will be able to make more money by buying up stations in one market.
All this has created a wonderful circle. With their share prices zooming, the companies find it easy to sell more shares, thus raising cash to buy more radio stations. That cash drives up the value of radio stations, which in turn makes the shares more valuable. And so on and so on. 
 How well have radio stations done? We put together a list of five companies that solely or primarily run radio stations. On average, they are up 75 percent this year. Not quite as well as some tech sectors -- one technology mutual fund has doubled in 1995 -- but still very impressive.
There is, perhaps, a pattern to Wall Street fads. First comes the smart money that recognizes a fundamental change. In this case, the change was the 1992 change in Government rules that let companies own more stations -- up to two AM and two FM in each market. That created the potential for additional demand at the same time that it made possible some economies of scale, through housing more stations in the same facilities and through having one sales force sell advertising on several stations.
Eventually, as more and more people recognize the changed circumstances, prices start to soar. That brings in the momentum investors -- those who buy stocks because they are going up. A lot of mutual fund managers operate that way now, which may help to explain why market moves these days can last longer than they once did.
Eventually, however, comes the silly time. That is when so many believe in an area -- or more precisely, believe that prices in that area can only go up -- that buyers can be found for almost anything.
That point may have been reached with Triathlon Broadcasting, which is a triumph as an initial public offering. This summer, friends of the underwriter were invited to purchase shares for 1 cent each. This month, shares were sold to the public, by two hitherto obscure underwriters -- Americorp Securities and Royce Investment Group -- for $5.50 each. The share price has since soared to $13.
The buyers got a start-up company. With the proceeds from the offering, the company bought four radio stations in Wichita, Kan. It has plans to buy two stations in Lincoln, Neb., but that depends on a plan to borrow money. The borrowing will be available only if it can show good results from the Wichita stations.
Triathlon bought the four radio stations for a total of $5.9 million, and will have a few million in cash until it does the Lincoln deal. Yet the market value of the company's stock is now $53 million. To justify that price, you have to assume either that these stations are gold mines whose value went unrecognized by the previous owners or that Triathlon's superior management will turn them into cash machines.
Neither looks likely. As it happens, the owners of the company selling most of the stations to Triathlon are -- surprise -- insiders at Triathlon who paid pennies for their shares. And Norman Feuer, Triathlon's chief executive, also serves as chief operating officer of the selling company. If there is a way to make these stations into highly profitable operations, it so far has eluded Triathlon's management.
Nonetheless, they have found a way to get rich even if the stations can't sell many ads. Mr. Feuer's stake in Triathlon, which cost him $2,449 a few months back, is now worth $3.2 million. Isn't Wall Street wonderful?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (75%); KANSAS, USA (70%); 

CITY: LINCOLN, NE, USA (70%); WICHITA, KS, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: ROYCE INVESTMENT GROUP INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); NEBRASKA, USA (75%); KANSAS, USA (70%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (70%); WICHITA, KS, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; STOCKS AND BONDS RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); BONDS (73%); SALES FORCE (71%); STARTUPS (69%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (68%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



315 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Diary

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

BENETTON
Going Where the Suffering Is
Benetton, often accused of exploiting human suffering, has opened a store in a capital of suffering, Sarajevo -- and has made sure to pile sandbags in front of the windows.
 
TELEVISION
Is the Buzz the Message?
You didn't watch "Central Park West" last week? That took great strength of character, considering the mind-boggling effort that CBS, desperate to lure younger viewers with something glitzy, put into hyping the show. It went way beyond buzz -- the network enlisted every bee in its hive to promote this one: the stars' faces adorning Manhattan buses, "advertorials" (horrible word), board games, even a World Wide Web site. The goal, as one marketing type put it: "entertainment-fashion-media-advertising synergy." Whew! That's a mouthful.
 
HEALTH CARE
Will This Fix Medicare?
House Republicans were determined to slash $270 billion out of seven years' worth of projected Medicare spending, and last week they said they'd found a way. But have they? Yes, premiums would rise -- slightly for most, sharply for the rich -- but the plan is short on incentives to nudge the elderly into H.M.O.'s. Bob Dole and Newt Gingrich insist that a free market in health care choices will make it all better -- even without those incentives. But critics like Representative Henry Waxman said cuts in payments to doctors would "destroy Medicare in a few short years." And many elements of the plan are still vague, prompting Democrats to say crucial details are being hidden.
 
ROCKEFELLER CENTER
It's Hard Being a Trophy
How can this happen? One of the world's prize properties, Rockefeller Center, is caught up in such convoluted financial games that billions are being lost on it. The answer is that no one really "owns" such a place, one merely owns the right to collect rents and pay the bills -- but that right is a dubious trophy indeed when the bills exceed the rents. Last week Mitsubishi Estate decided it wanted no more of such losing math and bailed out -- and expects to pay $1 billion for its lesson in New York real estate economics. At which point more investors -- like Sam Zell and Goldman, Sachs -- rushed in, cash in hand, to make it even more complicated. The venerable buildings didn't even sway.
 
POLITICS
Tobacco Money for the G.O.P.
At a time when it faces various regulatory threats -- Government efforts to label nicotine an addictive drug, for instance, and to reduce sales to teen-agers -- the tobacco industry is pouring money into Republican coffers. In the first half of this year, the industry contributed $1.5 million, five times as much as last year's first six months. Nearly half that sum came from Philip Morris. Representative Henry Waxman said the tobacco industry "has gotten its hooks into the Republican leadership." And the head of Common Cause called the heavy donations "a desperate last effort." But a spokesman for Brown & Williamson -- also a donor -- cited his company's belief in the Republican vision of "less government, less red tape."
 
COMMUNICATIONS
Policing the Internet
Computer networks are indisputably glorious things. No stamps, no paper, no fuss. A generation that thought letter-writing had surely died in a sun-washed 19th-century morning room has suddenly started to communicate. Now, alas, comes the dark side. Some people are using this strange new toy to send out child pornography or even lure children to sex. This gets complicated, for even if you get past the ethical question -- isn't private communication private? -- a huge practical one remains: how can you possibly monitor the zillions of 1's and 0's zooming through cyberspace? You can't always, of course, but last week -- after a four-year F.B.I. investigation -- came dozens of arrests for on-line porn and solicitation.
 
THE WORKPLACE
Women's Progress, Stalled
Are women moving steadily closer to equal status in the workplace? Surely nothing could stop the momentum of recent years. Or could it? In a poll out last week, only 56 percent of women said the role of women was continuing to change -- down from 73 percent five years ago. Do women "face more restrictions" than men? Yes, said 84 percent, with 77 percent saying sexual discrimination "remains a serious problem." And 76 percent said there was sexual harassment in the workplace.
 
STATISTICS
Do-It-Yourself Inflation
Numbers flow mercilessly from the Government -- statistics with little apparent purpose except to keep statisticians busy -- and many are easily ignored. But not the Consumer Price Index. "This is real," said Pat Moynihan. "Everything else is talk." This mighty inflation gauge, after all, dictates cost-of-living increases for Social Security and adjustments in tax brackets, and the tiniest blip translates into billions of dollars. What a gift to budget-cutters, then, if the index was found to be flawed. Sure enough, last week a Congressional panel said the index greatly overstates inflation -- and fixing it could trim $634 billion from the deficit over 10 years. This wouldn't exactly be a gift to retirees, though. Part of the index's flaw, it seems, is that it doesn't pick up shifts in buying patterns in response to higher prices. So if this "flaw" is fixed, Social Security recipients struggling to stretch their budgets would, in a sense, be doing the Government a favor, not themselves.
 
TRANSPORTATION
Tunnel of Lost Cash
Talk about a money pit! The Channel tunnel cost such a staggering sum to build -- $15 billion -- that it now faces interest costs of more than $3 million a day. A day! The tunnel's doing fine, mind you -- Eurostar trains are 75 percent full. But there's no way it can shell out that killer interest, and last week the company that runs it said it would simply not pay much of that interest for perhaps 18 months. Which means, of course, that big changes are coming -- and investors will be out a lot of money. But it will certainly keep running. "You cannot sell a hole in the ground for much," said a Eurotunnel executive, "if you've closed it."
 
THE MARKETS
Stocks Are Up. Period.
The facts: The stock market kept soaring last week -- setting records, topping 4,800 for the first time. The reasons: Oh, please don't ask; no one really has any idea why the market does what it does.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); MEDICARE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BOARD GAMES (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); BAILOUTS (67%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (63%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (52%); NEWT GINGRICH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



316 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Why Rates Look Good At the Local Credit Union

BYLINE: By ROBERT BRYCE 

 BODY:
WHEN Carolyn Rickard received a check for several thousand dollars from her mother's estate last month, she decided to shop around for a certificate of deposit. She received quotes from two banks and a savings and loan. Then she went to a credit union.
"The credit union's interest rates were higher," says Ms. Rickard, 50, who works for the Texas State Teachers Association Member Benefit Corporation in Austin. So she ended up with three C.D.'s, with varying dates of maturity, at the Austin Area Teachers Federal Credit Union. 
 Ms. Rickard is one of many happy customers of credit unions. Various factors often enable the unions to offer better rates than banks or savings and loans: the unions are exempt from Federal income tax, their workers are often volunteers and their office space may be subsidized by their sponsoring business or association. In Ms. Rickard's case, her union's 12-month C.D. has an annual effective yield of 5.59 percent -- more than half a percentage point higher than the yield offered by the banks she called. "That's darn good," she says.
National averages tell the same story. On Sept. 13, one-year C.D.'s carried an average yield of 4.92 percent at banks, 5.39 percent at savings and loans and 5.69 percent at credit unions, according to the Bank Rate Monitor, a trade publication. And for money market accounts, credit unions averaged 3.75 percent -- 0.92 of a point more than banks and 0.85 more than savings and loans.
Such differences are not new. But, in part, they are propelling impressive growth in credit unions. From 1980 to June 1995, their holdings of household savings more than quadrupled, from $61.5 billion, to $312.6 billion. More significantly, those gains mean that the credit unions' share of the overall market for household savings has grown from 4.4 percent in 1980 to 8.3 percent.
As those percentages suggest, however, credit unions remain a corner grocery in an industry of financial supermarkets.
When Chase Manhattan and Chemical Banking complete their recently announced merger plan, for instance, the new entity will have $297 billion in assets -- not much less than the combined assets of the country's 12,368 credit unions, as of last June.
But bankers are concerned nonetheless. "Because they have a tax subsidy, that means that all banks, savings and loans and other competing financial institutions will lose funds to credit unions," said James Chessen, chief economist of the American Bankers Association. In both Congress and the courts, in fact, bankers are aggressively trying to limit the unions' expansion.
Gail Liberman, editor of the Bank Rate Monitor, confirmed the bankers' fears. "Credit unions are displacing thrifts," she says. "They are just one more thorn in the side of banks, which are competing with brokerage firms, finance companies and mortgage brokers for dwindling assets."
In the loan business, credit unions also have a leg up on the competition. As of Sept. 13, the average new-car loan at a credit union cost a borrower 8.29 percent in yearly interest, while the average bank charged 9.62 percent and the average savings and loan charged 9.48 percent, according to the Bank Rate Monitor. Interest charges on credit cards showed an even larger disparity: the credit unions' average was 13.13 percent a year, compared with more than 18 percent for banks and savings and loans.
As in the case of savings rates, these differences have helped credit unions garner a larger share of certain loan markets. Their share of the auto-loan market, for instance, rose from 16.6 percent in 1990 to 23.2 percent in June, while the banks' share dropped from 44.1 percent, to 43.6 percent.
Rooted in medieval guilds, credit unions are nonprofit cooperatives that were first formed in the United States in 1909. They offer many of the services banks provide and, like banks, they are federally insured.
Despite their more attractive rates on loans and savings, however, credit unions have several disadvantages. For some loans, like mortgages, they charge higher rates than banks and savings and loans. The unions' relatively small size -- the average credit union has $25 million in assets compared with $402 million for the average bank -- means that they have far fewer branches, too. For the same reason, they often do not offer a full panoply of services, whether home equity loans, credit cards or automated teller machines.
The biggest drawback to credit unions, however, may be the membership requirement. To join a credit union, a person must be affiliated with a religious group, union, business or association which sponsors it, or must be related to a credit-union member. Still, about half of all Americans are eligible to join a credit union, and nearly 70 million Americans do. For eligibility information, call the Credit Union National Association at (800) 358-5710. A recorded message will give you the number of the credit-union league in your state.
Nevertheless, the membership factor means that savers cannot scout around among credit unions for the best C.D. deal or other good rates. While they can comparison-shop from bank to bank, they often have only one credit union, if that.
That does not bother Ms. Rickard. She likes the nonprofit nature of credit unions, and she enjoys the convenience of having her C.D.'s in the same place as other accounts. And she appreciates the relatively high rates her credit union offers.
So when her sister, who also inherited some money and also belongs to the Austin teachers credit union, wondered what to do, Ms. Rickard had a quick answer: "I told her to open an account at the credit union."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Higher interest rates led Carolyn Rickard to choose her credit union in Austin, Tex., for recent C.D. investments (Michell Bridwell for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (71%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AUSTIN AREA TEACHERS FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT UNIONS; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS CREDIT UNIONS (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); MERGERS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); INCOME TAX (54%); 

PERSON: BRYCE, ROBERT CAROLYN RICKARD (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



317 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Beyond the Waterfront, and Into the Water

BYLINE: By TOM SAWYER 

 BODY:
MIKE DAVIS knows exactly why he likes rowing.
"The thing is," says Mr. Davis, a 53-year-old archeologist, "you're in a completely different element. You are far from all the hard edges. Out there you're dealing with wind and current and an occasional thunderstorm. Out there you're in nature's realm, and you don't quibble with the rules. You don't get a lawyer to get you out of it." 
 Debates over how to, or whether, to revitalize the city's waterfront have been going on for years; meanwhile, quietly, Mr. Davis and a handful of other New Yorkers are way past the waterfront, heading right into the Hudson, Harlem and East Rivers by canoe, kayak and rowboat. Mr. Davis has spent years in the East, and two years ago helped found a nonprofit boating group, Floating the Apple, which builds long wooden rowboats from a former bank lobby in the McGraw Hill building on West 42d Street. "One of the great pleasures of being in Istanbul is rowing on the Bosporus, between Asia and Europe," he said. "Istanbul was built to be seen from the river. Here nothing was built to be seen from the river, except perhaps lower Manhattan."
Activity on the water is on the rise nationally, boat makers say. Canoes, kayaks and rowboats are built around the country by companies like Perception Inc., based in Easley, S.C. With 600 dealers nationwide, it reports a 20 percent growth for each of the last three years. "That's hearty growth," said Dana Jones, the company's marketing coordinator.
New York City got into the act in 1993, when the Department of Parks and Recreation established launch sites and began issuing permits for canoes and kayaks. A total of 34 permits were issued for this year's season, May 29 to Nov. 26, up from 24 last year. The city's intent is to make sure people using small boats know how to pursue their sport safely. "Barges can't stop, and big ships can't stop," Mr. Davis points out. "So you stay out of the way, the same way you stay out of the way of trucks on the street. They're unforgiving."
To row, Mr. Davis and a crew roll their 300-pound boats on a hand-pulled cart three long blocks from the McGraw Hill building to the river, and load them onto a homemade derrick on Pier 84 to swing them onto the water. "I've gone into my I.R.A.'s," Mr. Davis said. "I've got three credit cards that are a disaster area, but this has been worth doing."
In lower Manhattan, another group, the Downtown Boathouse, has a small cinder-block building on the apron of Pier 26, which juts into the Hudson just north of North Moore Street. Inside are the sleek hulls of 35 light-weight rowing or paddling craft in what amounts to a people-size version of the Kerbs Model Boathouse in Central Park. The 50 or so club members, whose fees are $250 a year, carry their boats to the edge of the pier and, depending on the tide, hand them down the three- to nine-foot drop to the water and board from a floating dock.
"We're still in the beginning stages," says Jim Wetteroff, a heating contractor who is club president. "We are in business and we do have a dock and we are getting people into the water."
Other rowers can be found at the 79th Street Boat Basin, where there are weekend launchings from a floating dock; people come carrying little boats from the stony bowels of their Upper West Side apartment buildings. The attraction of the rivers, however few feel it, is clearly there.
"It's our largest open space," Mr. Davis says succinctly. "It's a shame not to use it better."


GRAPHIC: Here are some of the groups that regularly row and paddle on New York City's rivers.
Chart/Map: "RIVER RUN: The Urban Paddler"
 Floating the Apple, 330 West 42d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, (212) 564-5412
 The Downtown Boathouse, 241 West Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10013, (212) 966-1852
 Inwood Canoe and Kayak Club, (718) 409-9672
 The city Department of Parks and Recreation, (212) 360-8131, issues permits for canoes and kayaks, for $2. That allows boaters to use sanctioned launch sites shown on map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (90%); EUROPE (70%); ASIA (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (90%); EUROPE (70%); ASIA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%); 

SUBJECT: ROWING BOATING & RAFTING (90%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (88%); MARINE VESSELS (88%); RIVERS (74%); BOAT BUILDING (74%); ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: SAWYER, TOM MIKE DAVIS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



318 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Jaguar XJS Convertible and Honda del Sol;
Rich Tan, Poor Tan

BYLINE: By JAMES G. COBB 

 BODY:
TAKE it from Charles Foster Kane: the simplest toys are the ones worth remembering, whether a Rosebud sled or an old MG roadster.
Consider two adult toys at opposite ends of the price spectrum. Starting at $15,310, the Honda del Sol is America's cheapest open-air car (as opposed to a dwarf sport utility like the Geo Tracker). What does the youthful del Sol have in common, if anything, with an aging, bank-breaking tanning device like the Jaguar XJS 6.0 Liter? What wins out, youth or experience? 
 The Jaguar's design dates to 1975 and its V12 engine was introduced in 1971. Built with relatively few concessions to the complexities of modern car making, it is a rather impractical toy for a Citizen Kane with a generous allowance -- a $90,000 (including various taxes) investment in image. No longer required is a stiff-upper-lip tolerance for the glitches that used to be standard Jaguar equipment -- problems that have largely abated since Ford acquired the British company in 1989.
Demand for the XJS, whose longevity is exceeded only by the Porsche 911, is still strong. Sales of the less expensive six-cylinder convertible, the most popular model, were up 34 percent through August. Even in its ninth life, this cat has legs.
If only the V12 will do, act promptly. The '96 XJS will come only with the six, for $62,150 plus luxury tax. The slower-selling coupe is being canceled. Then, for '97, the XJS is to be replaced with an all-new car intended to evoke the sleek E-types of 1961-74.
Like the monarchy -- heck, like Stonehenge -- the Jag is timeless. But this is no precocious retro design, it's the real, old thing. Inside, peering down the long, deeply sculptured hood, it's akin to being at the wheel of a 60's muscle car. The windshield starts just behind the dash, like a product of the 30's, and the glass seems almost vertical. And look at the two oversized, elegant chrome ash receptacles occupying prime space on the console.
The cabin is like a London gentlemen's club, without the knee room or the sherry decanters. The walnut trim is perfect and the tan leather is so buttery you fear for your cholesterol level.
Gliding through Manhattan on a Friday night, top down and cool jazz on the stereo, the "flamenco red mica" test car made waves. At a stoplight in Greenwich Village, a pedestrian exclaimed to friends, "Look at that -- isn't it a beautiful car?" In Chelsea, a sidewalk diner dropped his salad fork to walk over and peer into the parked Jag, ignoring the Rolls-Royce Corniche nearby.
The Jag does show its age in uncomfortable ways. The wide, old-style console forces your legs into a numbness-inducing tunnel, and the controls are ergonomically incorrect in the 1970's tradition. Put up the top, and a 6-footer must recline the seat to make room for the head. The power windows work the old-fashioned way, without an express-down control, and the console switches fool you every time: push them back, which seems like up, to lower a window.
Though the rear side windows, which have no separate controls, are supposed to move with the top, they get out of sync now and then. Needless to say, patricians do not impress the hoi polloi by repeatedly raising and lowering the top to close the windows.
But why close the top? You'd be a fool to pilot the XJS into bad weather, and its pleasant manner unravels with the roof closed. The cabin goes from cozy to claustrophobic; wind hisses at the windows. The "back seat," barely tolerable for a child with the top down, becomes an unusable shelf.
Despite its bulk, the long, narrow Jag sails comfortably around town. But it excels on winding country lanes, cornering with aplomb on wide 16-inch wheels. The long wheelbase and rear-drive configuration are forgiving if you push it too fast into a turn.
The V12 -- so quiet, so smooth -- propels the 4,306-pound beast to 60 m.p.h. in 7.2 seconds, and it mates seamlessly with the four-speed automatic (from General Motors, no less) for the fast-slow tango of back roads.
Though pleasing in its element, the quirky XJS can be irritating in daily driving. The beautiful interior is not particularly comfortable. The wedged-in engine runs hot, and you feel it. The spoiler not only detracts from the clean lines, it nicks the antenna if you open the trunk with the stereo on. The emergency brake lever retracts while engaged, fooling the driver into taking off with the brakes on.
If the XJS is a time capsule, the Honda del Sol is as up to date as a CD-ROM. As short and stubby as the Jag is lithe, this tiny car has excellent seats and legroom for giants. But the crowning glory is a light, lift-off top. A breeze to handle, it fits neatly into a rack in the trunk, where it serves as a second lid, taking only 2.2 cubic feet of space and lifting for access to cargo stored below. There are no rattles, no squeaks and, with the tight-fitting top in place, no more wind noise than you'd expect of a coupe.
Under the hood, Honda offers three four-cylinder engines for '95. The basic S model has a 1.5-liter, 102-horsepower power plant previously used on the basic Civic, and the Si, a step up, has a 1.6-liter version with 125 horsepower. At the top of the line, the VTEC squeezes an amazing 160 horsepower out of 1.6 liters, thanks to variable valve timing. A high-revving sweetheart -- the red line is 8,100 r.p.m. -- the VTEC pulls the 2,522-pound del Sol from zero to 60 in 7.7 seconds. It feels faster.
The test car -- a well-equipped VTEC with a $20,608 sticker -- never showed a hint of instability, staying glued to the road on every curve. Throw it into a corner and it pulls you through, with scarcely a hint of its origin as a Civic economy car. Relive your youth; the del Sol safely accommodates boneheaded maneuvers that would have put your teen-age jalopy into intensive care.
The typically well-designed Honda interior includes excellent climate controls, a radio hidden behind a sliding door and two lockable bins behind the seats. Storage is otherwise limited to a small glove box and a shallow console tray (which doubles as an uninspired cup holder), but that may be for the best. The owner's manual says the car's maximum load, including occupants and luggage, is just 400 pounds. Two 200-pounders should leave their toothbrushes at home.
Given the del Sol's versatility, why does Honda sell only 1,000 a month? Some 62 percent go to women; the car may be too cute for macho-conscious young men. From behind, the targa roof recalls the Porsche 914, but at some angles the squat design invites comparisons with the A.M.C. Pacer.
But that won't bother you from the driver's seat. And in contrast to the XJS -- which is loveliest on the outside looking in -- in the del Sol that's the best place to be.
INSIDE TRACK: The big-budget XJS proves that time can stand still, but the penny-pinching del Sol rolls back your clock.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The long-lived Jaguar XJS, a year from retirement, loses its V12 engine for '96.; The del Sol may be small, but it's roomy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: JAGUAR CARS LTD; HONDA MOTOR CO HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAGUAR CARS LTD; HONDA MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES SPORTS CARS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (87%); EXCISE TAX (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); SALES FIGURES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CHOLESTEROL (50%); 

PERSON: COBB, JAMES G CHARLES H FOSTER JR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



319 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consumers Gain From Mexico Trade Pact

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert's "Nafta's Bubble Bursts" (column, Sept. 11) plunges into the pitfall of one-sided storytelling in which he calls politicians (like Bill Clinton) and companies (like Mattel) to task.
It is true that on the one hand, job loss in the United States is a critical issue. Certainly we would not want to hear the horrible "sucking sound" that protectionist rhetoric like Ross Perot's predicted. 
 On that, Mr. Herbert is right to raise concern, though it truly is too early to judge: it is not clear how many of the layoffs related to the North American Free Trade Agreement that he mentions would have been lost to Mexico with or without the trade agreement.
On the other hand, the concerns of United States consumers are often left out. If companies like Mattel choose to manufacture products in Mexico and sell them in the United States, that means United States consumers can purchase the same quality products at a lower price.
This, in econospeak, is called a gain in efficiency, and it raises the standard of living for those United States consumers. It is harder to measure this kind of gain, and the benefits do not have the same kind of resounding ring to them as the (surely inflated) figure Mr. Herbert mentions of one million lost jobs.
But the impact of lower prices on a wide range of products will benefit nearly all 250 million United States consumers. Aren't we better off for being able to choose to buy Japanese or Mexican-made cars? This is not a statement on the relative value of cars or other products manufactured here, or in Mexico or Japan.
It simply means that consumers should be given the opportunity to buy the highest quality products at the lowest possible price, and that the trade agreement should increase their range of choices.
I am neither vehemently anti-Nafta nor pro-Nafta, but I do think the broad interests of United States consumers as a whole deserve at least as much attention as the unfortunate (but fewer) individuals whose employers decide they can manufacture products more efficiently in Mexico.
 
ALEC IAN GERSHBERG
Assistant Professor, Urban Policy
New School for Social Reaserach
New York, Sept. 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (72%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); DISMISSALS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



320 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Didn't Derail Women's Meeting

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re your Sept. 13 editorial on the forum of nongovernmental organizations in Huairou, China: 
 We were thrilled by the diversity of faces, colors, clothing, languages, crafts and music of 25,000 activist women from every continent. We were intellectually stimulated by the analyses in workshops and plenary sessions of everything from the global economy to local survival strategies.
We were inspired by stories of struggles that ordinary women are waging to secure their survival, dignity and rights.
We watched group after group demonstrate against abuses suffered by women somewhere -- images that will remind us to carry this spirit of democracy wherever we go.
Nothing the Chinese Government did overshadowed any of this. Thousands of Chinese university and high school volunteers were stationed everywhere to help us find our way.
Young and impressionable, they could not help being affected by the democratic look and feel of the forum; several told me this was the case. They are China's next generation of leaders.
Had the forum been as repressed as you made it out to be, your newspaper and others would have been swamped with protests. Our presence indicates we were never "silenced."
 
GLORIA RUDOLF
Brattleboro, Vt., Sept. 14, 1995
 
The writer teaches anthropology and development studies at the School for International Training.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD LEARNING (55%); WORLD LEARNING (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD LEARNING (55%); WORLD LEARNING (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; HUAIROU (CHINA); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



321 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Political Hands Reach for the Schools

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
NOT too long ago, big-city mayors like Rudolph W. Giuliani had enough to worry about without sticking their fingers into the messy goo of whatever was going on in the vast bureaucracies of urban schools.
But Mr. Giuliani, who has spent weeks embroiled in the politics of who would be the next Chancellor of the city schools, is but one of the mayors around the country who find themselves caught up in the local, often chaotic, business of education.
 
It's My Problem
 In truth, big-city mayors generally have no formal power to do anything about public schools. But either because the problems are so grave, because the need to do something is so obvious, because the lines between what's a school problem and what's a city problem have become hopelessly blurred, or because they figure they are going to get blamed anyway, mayors increasingly are defining the problems of the public schools as their problems. 
 "If you take a quick scan across the country at big central-city districts, it just jumps out at you how much of a role the mayors are playing," said Ted Kolderie, an expert on trends in urban education. "There's a fundamental logic to it. If you're the mayor of a central city and if on top of all the problems of personal security, taxes and services, there's a general perception that you don't want your kids in public schools, you're dead. If you're going to have any chance at all of keeping middle-class people in cities, you have to show them their kids can go to public schools."
A look at the nation's three largest school districts is instructive.
In New York, where the mayor appoints only two of the seven members of the Board of Education, Mr. Giuliani is insisting that any new Chancellor support his proposals to take control of the school system's finances and security.
In Chicago, Mayor Richard M. Daley last spring was given the power by the State Legislature to run the school district, in effect, by picking its top leaders. He can now name all five members of a new board of trustees. Before, he could only approve or reject slates for a 15-member board recommended to him by a nominating commission that often included his political enemies.
In Los Angeles, Mayor Richard J. Riordan, who has no authority over the public schools but was an early supporter of the movement for innovation in the district, recently jumped into one of the city's touchiest issues. Appearing with a leading advocate of breaking up the giant, 640,000-student Los Angeles Unified School District, the Mayor called for a study of the issue.
The formal powers given to Mr. Daley and sought by Mr. Giuliani are exceptions to the century-old norm of rigidly separating the duties of school boards and city governments, with the general aim of minimizing political and partisan influences on education. The vast majority of mayors around the country, like Mr. Riordan, have no formal authority over the public schools.
The exceptions, most of them in the Northeast, include Boston, where former Mayor Raymond Flynn a few years back succeeded in changing the school board from 13 elected members to 7 appointed by the mayor, and Baltimore, where the mayor appoints all school board members and where Mayor Kurt L. Schmoke has urged bringing in a private firm, Education Alternatives Inc., to run some schools. Mayor Daley in Chicago, given sweeping powers to appoint top school officials, put former aides in virtually all the positions.
In a few cities, including Newark and Paterson, N.J., and East St. Louis, Ill., the state has taken over struggling, largely poor school districts.
But whether they have formal powers or merely the bully pulpit and clout of their office, mayors increasingly are deciding that the problems of the public schools are too important to ignore.
 
Separation of Powers
 Some public officials like Mr. Giuliani argue that the schools' problems are so acute that mayors must have broader authority. But many experts are skeptical, saying the logic of taking municipal and partisan politics out of schools is as least as valid now as it was a century ago, when the tradition of keeping the schools independent of city hall originated.
"One argument for merging again is that education itself has become political," said Michael Casserly, executive director of the Council of Great City Schools, which represents some 50 urban districts, "but I would contend that as political as education is, it's at least the politics of education, and not the politics of elections or the politics of city government or the politics of public works. I think there's a stronger role for mayors and corporations to play, but there has to be some place that is wholly dedicated to kids, not to city politics."
Given their limitations, most mayors function more as advocates or facilitators than as prime agents in school management. But some have been able to make the case that a strict separation of school governance and municipal governance no longer is possible.
For example, Mayor Sharon Sayles Belton of Minneapolis has been an advocate both for neighborhood schools and for scatter-site housing. "She doesn't talk about community schools without linking it to integrated housing," said Mary Paddock, a spokeswoman for the Mayor.
Last week, Mayor Wellington Webb of Denver, who has consistently been involved in school issues, threw his support behind a proposed restructuring plan and tax increase for the local schools. He has also established a new cabinet position of education coordinator to help the city work with the schools.
"Yes, there's a definite separation of decision-making, control and budget, but the Mayor believes it's essential to form an alliance with the school board and superintendent, so they can work effectively together," said Amy Lingg, a spokeswoman for Mr. Webb. "The Mayor feels that while it's important to invest in infrastructure like the airport or convention center, ultimately it's investment in our children that will lead to a stable, strong economy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Where public schools are falling apart, like this classroom in New Jersey, big-city mayors are trying to expand their powers. (Lenore Victoria Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CHICAGO (ILL); LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; URBAN AREAS PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); POLITICS (77%); TRENDS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); DALEY, RICHARD M (MAYOR); RIORDAN, RICHARD J (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



322 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: SEPT. 10-16;
Mr. Bush's Asian Tour

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

 BODY:
President Bush's economic advisers tried to convince him that America's hopes for future prosperity lay in ties to Asia. Belatedly, Mr. Bush has decided they were right, and in the last two weeks he has raked in millions of dollars on an Asian swing that has not exactly been a testament to diplomacy.
In Vietnam Mr. Bush said former Defense Secretary Robert McNamara's confessional about American mistakes during the war was a "revisionist" history. In Beijing he seemed to undercut the Clinton Administration's efforts to persuade authorities to lift their repressive hand on the United Nation's Women's Conference, saying the forum has not helped Sino-American relations. 
 The biggest eyebrow-raiser came in Japan, where Mr. Bush is on a six-day tour sponsored by the Women's Federation for World Peace, founded by Hak Ja Han Moon, the wife of the Rev. Sun Myung Moon, the head of the Unification Church. Mr. Bush's speech about family values was picketed in Tokyo by Japanese groups who accuse the church of coercive fund raising and deceptive recruiting of Japanese young people. Mrs. Moon's speech credited her husband with bringing Communism's fall and declared that he must "save" America from "the destruction of the family and moral decay."
Mr. Bush had four other cities to visit for the same sponsor, which his spokesman insists has no financial ties to the Unification Church. DAVID E. SANGER

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Bush in Tokyo last week. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); VIET NAM (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%); 

COMPANY: WOMEN'S FEDERATION FOR WORLD PEACE; UNIFICATION CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S FEDERATION FOR WORLD PEACE; UNIFICATION CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); VIET NAM (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FAMILY (78%); WOMEN (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE; SANGER, DAVID E; SUN MYUNG MOON (REV); HAK JA HAN MOON GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



323 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
For the Poor, Defining Who Deserves What

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY J. McLARIN 

 BODY:
DISTINGUISHING the deserving poor from the simply lazy, the scammers from the unfortunate, the truly needy from those who just don't want to work, used to be easy.
Lots of people had humble beginnings, but poverty often seemed to be a temporary aberration brought on by elemental forces beyond an individual's control: a parent died or became disabled, the economy shriveled or collapsed. During the Depression, when thousands of desperate breadwinners lined up outside food pantries, Americans believed that it was society, and not the poor, that had failed. Hence the beginning of an enduring welfare experiment. 
 Congress was still grappling with the legacy of that experiment last week. In the Senate, moderates won more money for child care for poor women and fended off efforts by conservatives to deny any benefits to teen-age mothers and any additional benefits to women who had more children while on welfare. Conservatives applauded time limits and work requirements. A vote is due this week.
Society's attitude toward the poor has cycled like the seasons since the 16th century, when the Elizabethan Poor Laws provided beneficent relief for the young, the old and the infirm, and work for the able-bodied. By the 1800's poverty among the able-bodied had come to be viewed as a moral failing, but that attitude was tempered by humanitarianism later in the 19th century. The New Deal further codified welfare as a public responsibility, though some analysts say attitudes toward the poor hardened as government picked up the burden of charity from churches and other private sources.
But Lawrence M. Mead, a professor at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, said that in the public eye, the line that separates deserving from undeserving has always been crystal clear: the willingness -- given the physical ability -- to work.
"The public is very upset by fact that many poor people appear not to help themselves," he said. "Employment is the great badge of whether you are deserving. If you're working, you're in a completely different category."
Is a single mother considered "able" to work? Traditionally the answer was no. In fact, the nation's main welfare program, Aid to Families with Dependent Children, was created in 1935 with the goal of keeping women at home with their children. But those women were mostly widows or abandoned wives, alone through no choice of their own. They had the nation's sympathy.
 
'Welfare Queens'
 That sympathy withered as out-of-wedlock births skyrocketed. And now that most women work, a single mother who relies solely on welfare for her income is seen as the most undeserving of the poor, said Michael B. Katz, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania and author of "The Undeserving Poor: From the War on Poverty to the War on Welfare" (Pantheon, 1990).
That woman became the welfare queen of public resentment -- black, illiterate and producing babies at an alarming clip. (Blacks do account for a disproportionate number of welfare recipients, but the fact that most people on welfare are white -- and are either children or elderly -- has done little to dispel the stereotype).
If the poor should work, do jobs exist? In the 1930's, the answer was clear. They didn't. In the 1960's, the consensus was that although jobs existed, barriers like discrimination and poor education could keep even the most determined poor person from getting a job.
Some of those roadblocks remain. And others, such as the shortage of affordable day care and the lack of health care benefits with minimum-wage jobs, have arisen, too.
 
Giving Credit
 "There are jobs available, but there are a lot of issues that prevent women from taking those jobs," said William Grinker, a New York City Human Resources Commissioner in the Koch administration.
Mr. Mead says there is no evidence that women who leave welfare and then reapply do so because they lacked day care or health benefits. The public seems to agree.
There is evidence that Americans are more willing to provide aid to the working poor, though. Consider the earned income tax credit, which aids almost 14 million families who are poor but who make too much to qualify for welfare. The tax credit costs the Federal treasury $22 billion, a figure that mimics Federal spending on Aid to Families with Dependent Children.
"Yet that went through Congress with nary a peep," Mr. Katz said (although Republicans have since discussed scaling back the credit). "To me that is a fantastic illustration that money is not the real issue here."
The real issue, then, may be behavior. The deserving poor do not have babies out of wedlock. They are not mired in poverty, waiting for a handout.
"When people speak of the undeserving poor, they are frequently thinking of those whose behavior seems disreputable to us, those people who share desperate behaviors, who don't take the alleged opportunities that exist," said the author Jonathan Kozol, who has researched the religious lives of poor children in the South Bronx. "But I've found that even seemingly irrational behavior is ultimately attributable to the fact that people know they are economically superflous. They did not create the joblessness that engulfs them, and in that respect, they are blameless."
He argues that the issue should cut deeper than behavior. "The ultimate question is a theological one: What does any human being deserve?" he said. "The Bible tells us that a person's humanity is enough for our compassion."
What welfare revision really seeks to do, Mr. Grinker said, is alter the message, created in the 1960's and 1970's, that welfare is an acceptable way of life, or even an entitlement.
"For 15 or 20 years that was the message, and it began to get reversed in the 1980's," he said. "Now it's getting reversed with a vengeance."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Young men unable to find jobs elsewhere return from working in the forests to a Civilian Conservation Camp in Arkansas in 1933. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: MCLARIN, KIMBERLY J

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



324 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Seeing South Africa As the U. S. A., 1954

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG

 BODY:
ALMOST anywhere in South Africa, an American can pull off a perfectly paved road into a time warp. It's called a petrol station, and several smiling attendants will converge on the car, one washing the windows, one checking the oil, one filling the tires, one carefully topping off the tank with premium. The bathrooms are spotless, and a 56-cent tip -- not necessarily even expected -- leaves everyone beaming.
Welcome to the new South Africa, a country that despite rapid political change remains for now much like 1950's America, for better or worse. At least that's the way it can seem to a newly arrived American, particularly a white more likely to encounter a cocoon of white privilege in daily life than the hard lot of the black majority (more of which later).
 
Wistful, or Not
 Because of years of international isolation, many of the changes of the 60's simply bypassed South Africa. And so, despite the essentially European nature of much of white South African culture, a white American here can feel a sense of deja vu; visiting black Americans will no doubt be decidedly less wistful. 
Civility is among the more positive throwbacks. In many ordinary encounters, South Africans are remarkably polite -- to a transplanted New Yorker, almost maddeningly so. "Pleasure" (as in "it's a . . ."), said with ungrudging sincerity, is the standard response to "thanks." In America, that has faded from "you're welcome" to "yup."
Life offers a less complicated litany of choices. There are no microbreweries. Salad dressing is plain vegetable oil and vinegar. With hunting, one can find extra virgin olive oil and balsamic vinegar, but not 10 brands.
For the better-off, too, good food is cheap. A steak that a chef at the Palm would crawl through sawdust on his knees for is routine here at $10. At steakhouses, even the Dieter's Special is nine sizzling ounces, and a huge roast haunch is derisively referred to on the menu as a "ladies filet."
While cellular phones are even more common than in New York (fewer of those pesky skyscrapers), some wealthy neighborhoods still use rotary phones.
Johannesburg residents worry constantly about crime, but in cities like Durban, people unconcernedly leave their belongings on beach boardwalks.
Other throwbacks will strike many as less quaint. In white households, Dads still work and Moms put on makeup to drive children in pin-neat uniforms to school. Checking accounts are issued in the husband's name only. With his permission, the wife may co-sign. She may even use her own name -- but skeptical merchants may want an explanation. And she is sometimes addressed by tradesmen working in her house as "dear."
With some important exceptions, journalism is content to repeat authority, not question it (there are only four channels on TV -- the South African Government didn't even allow TV until 1976).
Houses have gardeners, not ChemLawn contracts. The common boast that "we worked really hard on our flower beds this year" ignores the gentleman who actually hefted the shovel.
And even worse echoes of America's "golden age" can be found. The police are still allowed to shoot at fleeing felons (they tend to be black), so passersby (again, mainly black) die simply for being unlucky. Crime and suburban malls are killing once-elegant downtown shopping venues like Eloff Street here.
Environmentalism is barely awake. Gas is leaded, and those petrol stations don't have nozzles that suck back the fumes. A coal-smoke fog chokes townships in winter. Recycling is discouraged. Composting is rare.
And if life for wealthy whites seems to be on pause in the American 50's, for working-class blacks it seems trapped in the American 30's.
The end of apartheid laws hasn't ended apartheid economics. Almost all blacks are still in townships. The first glimpse of Soweto, for an American expecting something like Harlem or Watts, can be startling. The city, which is down the highway from Johannesburg, not in it, resembles nothing in America so much as it does that postwar icon, 1950's Levittown: row after row of identical houses with neat yards on curving suburban streets, all governed by strict zoning.
There are differences, though: the houses are cinderblock, and their yards are grassless; the streets have no signs (though on maps they have pretty names), and zoning laws control how many shanties the owner can build in his yard to rent (up to nine in poorer neighborhoods like Orlando East, none in fancier ones like Diepkloof Extension.) Also, Soweto has barracks -- the hostels where migrant workers stay -- and it doesn't have cars.
In the cities, where blacks and whites mingle in daily commerce, momentary exchanges can really startle. If a white man pauses to let a black laborer with a load pass on the sidewalk, he might well hear "Thank you, my boss." Let him hold a door for a domestic of a certain generation, and he may hear "Thank you, master."
 
Invisible Men
 Many South African whites still have the mental block that Ralph Ellison dramatized in "Invisible Man," published in 1952. They seem not to see blacks. When they speak about them, or even to them, the exasperated tone the Americans use when talking to or about children creeps subtly in. Or they use phrases -- "what these people want" -- that suggest that they barely draw distinctions between a Cabinet minister and a burglar. A plumber will say, in front of his black helper, that the blacks will make the country fall apart when President Nelson Mandela goes. An American holds his breath, expecting the helper to clock him with a pipe, or at least demur. Instead, nothing.
Language may be a barrier, but it's more likely just economics. With unemployment in Soweto at 45 percent, the helper needs the job. The boss can yammer on all he likes.
"Any waiter, any caddie, any domestic has experienced it," said Jacklyn Cock, a sociology professor at the University of the Witswatersrand who wrote "Maids and Madams: A Study in the Politics of Exploitation" in 1980. "It's just a central part of racism. It's one of the ways whites protect their dignity when they're so dependent in an intimate sort of way on black people -- they pretend that they don't exist."
But while South Africa seems superficially like the American 50's, it's important to look below the surface.
"Don't forget," said Heinz Klug, a former African National Congress exile who studied law in Wisconsin and California and now teaches it at the University of the Witswatersrand, "in the States in the 50's, life was secure, and whites had a sense it could only get better. Maybe there was The Bomb to worry about, but that was it. That's not true here.
"Similarly," he said, "African-Americans in the States then had a sense of political powerlessness. That's not true here, either. They know there's not going to be another white minority government. Those days are history."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Johannesburg, at what's called a petrol station, the service is labor-intensive and a 56-cent tip welcome.; On the tracts of Soweto, a cinderblock Levittown without the grass. (Photographs by Louise Gubb/JB Pictures, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GAS STATIONS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (72%); TRENDS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



325 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Hard Cases at the Hospital Door

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

 BODY:
AS local governments consider closing public hospitals, health care experts are questioning whether hidden costs may eventually soak up any savings to be realized by padlocking the only doors that guarantee universal access to medical care.
"In the short term, it may save local governments money," said Elisabeth G. Houston, director of metropolitan hospitals for the American Hospital Association. "But there's no question that sooner or later somebody's going to have to pay." 
 Because few public hospitals have closed in the recent past, and because the potential domino effect on municipal finances is impossible to quantify, it is difficult to construct a meaningful balance sheet.
But starting with the premise that local government subsidies account for only 16 percent of public hospital revenues, the analysts warn that the money saved may be needed to provide alternate health care for the indigent, to meet increased demands on social service agencies and to offset declining tax revenues brought on by higher unemployment.
New market forces in the health care industry and extreme fiscal pressures on governments have forced local officials to explore closing or selling public hospitals in many cities, including New York, Los Angeles and Washington.
In New York, a mayoral commission recommended last month that the city close, sell or lease all 11 of the hospitals operated by the Health and Hospitals Corporation. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani plans to study the report but has suggested that the city should hold on to some of the hospitals.
 
Headed Down
 A study by the National Association of Public Hospitals found that local subsidies to public hospitals in 38 large cities decreased by 4 percent between 1991 and 1993. Medicaid and Medicare, the Government health programs for the poor and elderly, provide well over half of public hospital revenues, and both programs are under full-scale assault in Congress.
By contrast, non-public hospitals receive 53 percent of their patient revenue from private payers, 35 percent from Medicare and 11 percent from Medicaid, according to the American Hospital Association.
In many places, services offered by public hospitals already have been curtailed. Some health care experts predict that up to 40 percent of the country's 450 public hospitals, which have long been responsible for treating the indigent and uninsured, could close within 10 years.
Maria K. Mitchell, who now heads the city's hospitals corporation and directed the commission that recommended the closings, maintains that the primary goal was to create a more efficient health care system by replacing acute care in hospitals with preventive care in clinics.
"If we don't save a dime and spend just what we're spending today, we'll have a much better health care system," she said. "People will be healthier and will be treated better, and that will save money."
But she acknowledged that the city still must do a lot of analysis before projecting how much might be saved, even in the short run.
The city gives the Health and Hospitals Corporation about $500 million a year to cover operating expenses and the costs of litigating and settling malpractice cases, Ms. Mitchell said. It spends an additional $675 million on Medicaid services for the poor at city hospitals.
Closing or selling the hospitals, which have a total budget of $3.3 billion, would not necessarily affect the city's Medicaid bill, since the city must contribute to the care of Medicaid patients at private hospitals.
The city could theoretically save the $500 million it gives to the public hospitals as a direct subsidy if it did not incur other costs. But health care experts say that is unlikely.
 
Obligations
 To begin with, most local governments that are considering divesting themselves of their public hospitals recognize that they must find other ways to provide health care to the indigent. Indeed, some are obligated by their state constitutions to care for the poor.
The most obvious alternative is making payments to private hospitals. But if the disappearance of public hospitals encourages patients to wait longer before seeking care, they may arrive with more serious -- and more expensive -- health problems.
In addition, public hospitals in many places, including New York, provide care to prisoners, police officers and fire fighters. New York City spent $45.5 million on those services last year, and presumably would have to spend a similar amount to have them provided by private hospitals.
The layoffs of thousands of hospital workers -- the Health and Hospitals Corporation employs 42,500 -- would cut into income tax and sales tax revenues, while forcing local governments to make pension payments to many workers far earlier than anticipated.
Health care experts also predict that tuberculosis and sexually transmitted diseases would spread faster in the absence of public hospitals, adding significant public health costs. Loss of the hospitals could also create new demands on mental health programs and homeless shelters.
"Obviously, when you have a first line of defense in the health care sector and that goes away, you are going to be compounding the problems of patients that don't have another place to go," said Larry Gage, president of the National Association of Public Hospitals.
Dennis P. Andrulis, president of the National Public Health and Hospitals Institute, said, "A line item may be redlined out, but those dollars may creep into other public sector responsibilities that are invisible to the financial eye. It's hard to quantify."
He added: "And that's the political benefit of it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) HOSPITALS (95%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (89%); ACUTE CARE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



326 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 3352 words

HEADLINE: A Dream in Retreat -- A special report.;
Serbs of 'Greater Serbia' Find Suffering and Decay

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia

 BODY:
Ljubica Solic, like her people, is at the end of the road. In a schoolyard filled with mud-spattered tractors and trailers, she has discovered the misery bequeathed by the great Serbian illusion.
Mrs. Solic, dressed in black, slumped on the ground, is a Serbian refugee. She fled the Krajina area of Croatia, 450 miles away, when it fell to the Croatian Army last month. Her husband was killed by the Croats during the retreat. 
 The Serbian Government of President Slobodan Milosevic directed her to Djakovica, in Kosovo, a region in southern Serbia that is 85 percent ethnic Albanian. Now she sleeps in a crowded classroom. Discarded watermelon, attacked by bloated flies, litters the floor.
"I'd hardly even heard of Kosovo and never been in Serbia," Mrs. Solic said. "But the authorities promised us a house, land, vineyards if we'd come here. We came, but we've got nothing, and we're a minority once again."
Serbia is now a land of broken promises. There is a widespread desolation, dark and deadening, a harvest of misery from a moment of folly. The Serbs of Croatia are refugees; the Serbs of Bosnia flee, weakened by NATO bombing and attacked by the Croatian and Bosnian armies; the Serbs of Serbia eke out an existence. Over 260,000 Serbs have lost their homes since the beginning of August.
The biggest promise of all was made six years ago by Mr. Milosevic at the Kosovo battlefield, not far from where Mrs. Solic lay prostrate in grief: a glorious future based on the unity of all Serbs.
It had a ring to it, but events have proved otherwise. The battlefield, where the Serbs were defeated by the Ottoman Turks in 1389 and where all the pageantry of resurgent Serbian nationalism unfurled in 1989 before rolling across the Balkans in a bloody tide, is now as empty as the promise proved.
Decay appears to be the dominant legacy of Mr. Milosevic's Serbian storm. Because the storm has subsided -- tamed by impoverishment, disunity and war fatigue -- an American-mediated truce may be at hand in the Balkans.
But because the cost in human suffering has been so high for the likes of Mrs. Solic and for millions of others, and because no Serbian political or military leader has paid for it yet, any peace may prove unstable.
"Milosevic has shown amazing brutality," a Western diplomat said. "He cold-bloodedly sacrificed the 170,000 Serbs of the Krajina because he wants a wealthy little country he can rule for 20 years. He never even made a public statement about them. Of course, there's no accountability in the Balkans, but one suspects a day of reckoning must come."
Zeljko Miljevic, another refugee from the Krajina, awaits that day. "I hate Milosevic," he said. "I hate him deeply." In the last six weeks he has lost his home and fled to Serbia, only to be dragged away from his family by the Serbian police and dragooned into the forces defending Eastern Slavonia, the last remaining Serbian-occupied area of Croatia.
But Mr. Milosevic retains a solid bedrock of support, rooted in central Serbia, where people admire his authority, his skill in keeping Serbia out of the war, and his maintenance of a semblance of economic order despite three years of sanctions.
Leskovac, in eastern Serbia, has paid heavily for those sanctions. Many of the 10,000 people in its textile industry have been laid off. This disaster has only made Srboljub Cvetkovic, the director of a company called Leteks, more unswerving in his loyalty to the Serbian President.
"He has not been guilty of anything," he said of Mr. Milosevic. "Who can compare with him?"
In the most recent Balkan wars, he contends, Serbs have had to fight the designs of Germany and the Vatican in backing an independent, Catholic Croatia and then the designs of the United States -- driven by the politics of oil -- in backing a Muslim state in Bosnia. "Serbs have never been aggressors," he said.
This view is widespread. It echoes the words of Mr. Milosevic, who has said Serbs "never conquer and exploit others" because their historical role is "a liberating one."
But amid the political passivity that is a hallmark of the Balkans -- the legacy of centuries of rule by distant empires and then Communist regimes -- there is a particular raggedness and torpor about Serbia today that suggests a day of awakening, quite possibly a violent one, may come. This is a land, Serbs like to recall, where few leaders have died in their beds.
 
The History
Ancient Question: Where Is Serbia?
 On the vast platform where monuments commemorate the Serbs' defeat by the Ottoman Turks in 1389 -- a debacle transformed by myth and song into the beacon of the long Serbian struggle for a state with stable borders -- weeds now push through the cracks in the stone.
The adjacent flower beds are barren. Garbage skitters in the wind. A solitary cafe has closed. Nothing stirs on the Field of Blackbirds, where Serbian blood ran in the Middle Ages and Serbian hopes coalesced as Communism died.
The fever has evaporated, but it was inebriating while it lasted. It was at Kosovo Field, on the 600th anniversary of the defeat by the Turks, that Mr. Milosevic, now 54, revealed his heady formula for adapting Communism to changing times. A million Serbs -- from Serbia, Bosnia and Croatia -- gathered to hear the message.
Amid a panoply of national costumes and a cacophony of national song, he announced that the time was at hand for Serbs to avenge a demeaning history.
"The fact that we are the big nation in this region is not a Serbian sin or shame," he declared, blaming the "inferiority complex" of past Serbian politicians and their disunity for the "humiliation of Serbia." War, Mr. Milosevic intimated, might even be necessary to right this affront.
The warning was vague -- what injury exactly had Serbia suffered? -- but then nationalist thunder is not about precision. Mr. Milosevic had already crushed the autonomous status of Kosovo and of the ethnically mixed northern Vojvodina region of Serbia, so eradicating one long-standing Serbian grudge.
Perhaps he was appealing to a deeper frustration: the sense among Serbs that Yugoslavia should have been their country because their sacrifices during the 19th century and in World War I were decisive in bringing it into being.
"The Serbs fought for centuries to live in one state," said Borislav Jovic, vice president of Mr. Milosevic's Serbian Socialist Party. "That state was Yugoslavia. We suffered great injustices in it -- economic and political -- but it was ours, and we sought to protect it."
Whatever the real grievance, Mr. Milosevic's message galvanized a people afflicted by 2,600 percent inflation and the disorienting collapse of Communism. Other Yugoslav leaders, particularly Franjo Tudjman of Croatia, got the message: Nationalism can fill a political void and cause falling pay to be momentarily forgotten.
Yugoslavia -- always a delicate mosaic -- cracked. Then it collapsed in 1991, as the drumbeat of Mr. Milosevic's propaganda pushed Serbs to try to forge the largest Serbia since Dusan's 14th-century empire.
After repeated migrations across the Balkans, centuries of Ottoman Turkish dominion and more than 180 years of struggle to establish the borders of a modern state, the campaign of the Serbs was and remains an attempt to settle a fundamental question: Where is Serbia?
In Kosovo, where the medieval kingdom was strong? In Bosnia, where a Serb nationalist shot the heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne in 1914, setting off World War I? In Croatia, where Serbs had fled westward from the Turks and formed a military frontier, or "krajina," against them? Mr. Milosevic's initial answer was simple: Serbia lies wherever there are Serbs.
But four years and a quarter of a million lost lives later, it seems clear that this whole Serbian drive -- marked by great brutality against Bosnian Muslims -- was based on two central illusions. Mr. Milosevic was never a Greater Serbian nationalist; he was a Communist casting around for a new legitimacy, And Serbs, divided by their history, were ill-suited to life in a single state. They fought one another in World War I, when many of the Serbs in Croatia and Bosnia fought on the side of the Austro-Hungarian empire against Serbia.
They fought one another again in World War II, when some Serbs sided with the Communist Partisans and others with the royalist Chetniks. The Partisans, led by Tito, won.
But the internecine grievances lived on to resurface in the current wars, sapping the Serbs' strength. One result is that the centuries-old community of Serbs in the Krajina was unable to beat back the Croatian Army and has been destroyed.
Bosnian Serbs, whose political leaders preach church and crown, have uneasy relations with the Communists-turned-Socialists of Serbia. Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader, talks of privatizing all industry in his part of Bosnia, flanks himself with Orthodox bishops whenever possible, and suggests that the royal family should return. Mr. Milosevic and his wife, Mirjana Markovic, fan a wave of Yugo-nostalgia; photographs of Tito are multiplying and Partisan monuments being restored.
This struggle in Serb-held lands is likely to unfold over the next several years.
"For a brief moment, Milosevic was able to fuse the Chetnik and Partisan traditions, the two major political currents in Serbia," said Stojan Cerovic, a writer. "The Chetniks saw a Great Serb nationalist; the Communists saw his attachment to a strong party apparatus and a state-dominated economy. But it was fleeting. The Communists were right: He is an apparatchik above all."
 
The Suffering
Refugees or Not, Many Are Losers
 Vojna Adamovic, a refugee from Bosnia, is one of the many Serbs who now feel betrayed by Mr. Milosevic. She fled from Sarajevo to Belgrade on April 12, 1992, six days after the Bosnian war began, because she felt threatened by the Muslims. But increasingly she feels isolated in Serbia, and her ire has focused on the Government.
"I had everything in Sarajevo," she said. "Great friends, great music, the sea three hours away, the mountains 20 minutes away. What did I need Greater Serbia for?"
She lighted a cigarette and continued: "You know, it's funny, you can't imagine how I've come to miss the mountains. Everything here is so flat and boring. I ache for the mountains and forests. The people here in Serbia are colder, less open-hearted. They tend to think we Bosnians just came down from the trees."
Thus Ms. Adamovic, who is 36, has arrived at the bitter conclusion that she is a Bosnian more profoundly than she is a Serb. It has been thus with many Serbian refugees: They are products of the culture from which they came more deeply than they belong to the overarching vision that Mr. Milosevic briefly sought to promote.
Her parents, refugees from Muslim-controlled Tuzla, now live in the northeastern Serb-controlled Bosnian town of Bijeljina. There, Ms. Adamovic observes officials close to Dr. Karadzic buying BMW's and Belgrade apartments with the money made from sales of everything from smuggled gasoline and arms to the right not to fight on the front line.
A conspicuous criminal class is also evident in Mr. Milosevic's post-Communist society, dominated by the party (Socialist in name but Communist in sprit), a huge police force and official control of all important media.
The paradigm of this class is the paramilitary leader-turned-oil smuggler Zeljko Raznatovic, known as Arkan, who is wanted for murder in Sweden and whose forces began the "ethnic cleansing" of Bosnia. He now runs a thriving oil business with official support.
Meanwhile, professionals who used to earn $2,000 a month now earn $150. A pension may be half that. At flea markets, retired diplomats sell off family heirlooms for a pittance.
The average Serb lives like Ljubisa Djuric. He stood recently on the highway near Nis in eastern Serbia with strings of dried red peppers and jerry-cans of gasoline arrayed in front of him.
As a steelworker in Leskovac, his salary has dropped from about $1,000 a month to $70 over the last five years. He supplements this by making regular visits to Bulgaria, where he buys about 200 liters of gas and then bribes customs officials to ignore trade sanctions and allow him to bring it back.
"You can't choose," he said. "I've got a wife and kid, you have to do something to survive."
 
One Family
Refugee Serbs 'Betrayed by Serbia'
 Of course, Mr. Milosevic has been able to blame the sanctions for such misery. They have certainly hurt the country deeply. But the greatest tragedies in Serbia are linked to the wars Mr. Milosevic foresaw at Kosovo Field in 1989 and then helped foment.
Take the Miljevic family. On Aug. 19, after traveling for 14 days in tractors, they reached the central Serbian town of Kraljevo. They went there because, when they reached the Serbian border after fleeing their home village of Kostresi in the Krajina, a policeman handed them a piece of paper saying "Kraljevo." No explanation was given.
On arrival, they were directed to the technical school. The gymnasium became their home, shared with 300 other refugees. From where he sleeps, Milos Miljevic, 63, looks up at a basketball net. Children stare; babies scream; aged widows in black sleep, their thin mouths fixed in a rictus of bewilderment.
"We felt so safe," Mr. Miljevic says. "We were defending our homes. But we were betrayed by Serbia."
It is not the first time that Mr. Miljevic has been a refugee. As a boy he spent four years in the woods near the Krajina town of Glina, hounded by Croatian Fascists bent on killing Serbs.
When he got back to Kostresi in 1945, all that was left of his home were the chicken coops. "I was 12," he said. "I went to work repairing the house. With Tito things seemed all right. But the peace depended on him. Now it seems none of the rifts was healed."
In 1991, a few months before Croatia seceded from Yugoslavia and war began, Mr. Miljevic fled the Croatian town of Sisak, where he had lived for many years and worked in a steel mill. As the propaganda machines of Mr. Tudjman and Mr. Milosevic moved into high gear, reopening the wounds of World War II, his Croatian co-workers labeled Mr. Miljevic a "Chetnik."
He moved back to Kostresi, near Kostajnica, with his wife, Danica, becoming part of the Serbian campaign to hold on to part of Croatia, only to lose his home again to the Croats this August.
His son Zeljko, 30, and his grandson, Miroslav, 3, stood beside him: three generations of Serbian refugees. Miroslav started to cry; he asks why he cannot go home. A Serbian policeman appeared and said the conversation was against regulations.
Vistors, especially journalists, are not allowed into the refugee centers, the policeman said. The decision bears the hallmark of the Government. These Serbs who have lost everything are not to be seen, for images of their suffering could hurt Mr. Milosevic.
Later, the Miljevic family appeared at a cafe in Kraljevo's main square. The expanse is dominated by a monument to the Serbian dead in the Balkan wars of 1912 and 1913, when Serbia pushed its borders southward to embrace Macedonia and Kosovo.
Macedonia is gone now, independent since Yugoslavia broke up. Serbian control of Kosovo is threatened by the Albanians who want independence. Miroslav, the little Krajina refugee, ran around the hero-warriors of Serbia on their stone pedestal.
His father, Zeljko Miljevic, a carpenter, watched him. He was in a unit of special forces in the Krajina. He knows all about the Serbian defeat there. It was Saturday, Aug. 5, at about 2 in the afternoon, when his unit was ordered to withdraw.
"No explanation was given," he said, "but our commanding officers were already in Bosnia. We could have defended ourselves, but Krajina had already been sold. The officers who ordered the withdrawal were from Serbia; they had nothing to lose."
His account coincides with those of dozens of other refugees. Many civilians left, under orders, thinking that they were going to Bosnia for a night while the Croatian threat was rebuffed. But no attempt was made to fight. Maj. Gen. Milan Mrksic, a Serbian officer, had been sent from Belgrade in May to command the Krajina forces; his real role, American officials now say, was to prepare for an abandonment of the area.
"This happened to many Croats in 1991," Zeljko Miljevic says, "and now it is happening to us. But it always seems beyond our control. In 1991, when the Croatian houses in the Krajina were being burned, there were all these outsiders, militia groups, people we'd never seen before, who were doing it."
Those militia groups -- like Arkan's "Tigers" -- were armed and deployed from Belgrade. At the time, President Milosevic spoke of the Serbs' "legitimate right to live in one country."
But Serbs are now being gathered into Serbia where Serbia at first reached out to them. In 1992, Serbs held almost one-third of Croatia and 70 percent of Bosnia; today they hold 4 percent of Croatia and 60 percent of Bosnia. They have agreed to give up an additional 11 percent of Bosnia.
Mr. Milosevic's Yugoslav Air Force stood by while Serbs in Bosnia were bombed by NATO. "He has become a dove," a Western diplomat said of the Serbian leader.
The fate of Zeljko Miljevic suggests that this conversion is not quite complete. On Aug. 24, five days after his arrival in Kraljevo, he and his brother-in-law Slobodan Jelic were arrested by the Serbian police and taken away. They were not allowed to say goodbye to their families.
"Miroslav was crying for days, asking for his father," said Zeljko's distraught wife, Mirjana.
It was several days before she heard from her husband. He was taken to Erdut in Eastern Slavonia, the one remaining Serbian-occupied sliver of Croatia.
There, he was thrust by the Serbian police into the "military training camp" of Arkan, whose business interests now center largely on Eastern Slavonia.
In early September, Zeljko Miljevic could be found in Petrovci, near the Serbs' front line in Eastern Slavonia. His head had been shaved. His beard had been shaved. He had new boots, a new uniform, and a new, deeper resignation in his eyes.
He spent six days in Arkan's camp. Arkan came every day and harangued the hundreds of refugees there on their failure in the Krajina.
"I was not physically abused," Mr. Miljevic said, "but I saw lots of people who were. They were made to carry heavy rocks. When they dropped them, they were beaten."
Now, after four years of war, this Serb stands on another front line, far from the home he was denied the right to defend. He is marooned, forbidden to return to Yugoslavia, where his wife has been told she cannot put their children in school because the Miljevices have no home. What appear to be the dying gusts of the Serbian storm have tossed him this way and that -- another migration in the long Serbian history of migrations.
Where will this suffering end? "Milosevic started all this, and now he's the one who really wants to finish it," said Richard C. Holbrooke, the Clinton Administration's mediator in the Balkans.
But difficult issues, including Kosovo, remain. The basic question -- where is Serbia? -- is not completely answered. Moreover, Mr. Milosevic, both of whose parents committed suicide, has proved himself a man of unusual coldness, capable of shifting hundreds of thousands of people like pieces in a chess game.
For many Serbs, distant from the fighting, informed only by the official media, all that upheaval has remained far away. They put their faith in the man who has preserved order in Serbia and may come away from the wars with half of Bosnia under his control. In Leskovac, Srboljub Ilic, a bank employee, did not hesitate when asked who might one day succeed Mr. Milosevic. "We'll find another Milosevic," he said.
The phrase echoed the lesson Yugoslav schoolchildren used to learn under Tito. In reply to the question, "Who will succeed Tito?" they were told to say "Tito." They believed it, in all sincerity.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The turmoil in the Balkans has made many Serbs refugees. Among them are Milos Miljevic, his wife, Danica, two grandchildren, Sladjana and Zeljana, and a great-niece, shown in a trailer with all their possessions in the central Serbian town of Krajlevo.; Another refugee in the Miljevic family, Zeljko, says of President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, "I hate him deeply."; The Serbs were defeated by the Turks at Kosovo Field in 1389 but transformed the defeat into myth, as in this reproduction of Petar Lubarda's "Battle of Kosovo." (pg. 10) (Photographs by Roger Cohen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); CROATIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; CROATIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; KRAJINA (CROATIA); KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA; SERBIA (99%); CROATIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REFUGEES (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); BOMBINGS (71%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); COHEN, ROGER SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



327 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Pope's South Africa Visit Honors 2 Vows

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Sept. 16

 BODY:
By making his first official visit to South Africa today, Pope John Paul II kept two promises. The first he made last year to Africa's Christian bishops when he said he would come to Africa to close their synod because they had gone to Rome to open it.
The second he made long ago, when he said he would not set foot in South Africa until it mended its ways. 
 As President Nelson Mandela met the Pope at Jan Smuts Airport, he expressed his gratitude for the Pope's long campaign of passive resistance.
"To say the visit is long overdue is to pay tribute to your own abhorrence of the system of apartheid," Mr. Mandela declared. "You delayed your visit to this country because you viewed with disdain a system that treated God's children as lesser human beings."
The Vatican will not say what the Pope has in mind for his sermon on Sunday before an expected crowd of 300,000 at the Gosforth Park racetrack, but "peace, justice and reconciliation" are the stated themes, an apparent reference to the need to build a harmonious new South Africa out of the ashes of the old racist one.
Catholic priests and members of the laity were often at the forefront of the fight against apartheid. The church has 3.5 million adherents here, and 80 percent of them, including most of the priests, are black.
"That's why the church had to take up the cudgels," said John Muller, who heads the Papal Visit Publicity and Reservations Office here.
Although not as well known abroad as Protestant churchmen like Archbishop Desmond Tutu or the Rev. Allan Boesak, many Catholic bishops here vigorously opposed segregation, and paid the price when church buildings were firebombed.
Without doing anything that endorsed violence or vengeance, Pope John Paul II encouraged them. In early 1988, Mother Teresa visited to set up a hostel in a black township, one that was pointedly chosen because it was where people rousted from Crossroads, in Cape Town, were forced to move.
And in September 1988, the Pope made a 10-day tour that was scheduled to touch down in every country that bordered South Africa while pointedly avoiding the country itself. At the first stop, in Zimbabwe, he endorsed economic sanctions against the Pretoria Government when a bill to impose them was facing strong Republican opposition in the United States Congress.
On his way to Lesotho, a tiny monarchy surrounded by South Africa, the weather forced his plane down, and it landed at the same airport where it arrived today. Before he could muster enough cars to drive the last leg in a convoy, Foreign Minister R. F. Botha had rushed to the airport for a photo opportunity.
Today, the Pope's arrival was more photo opportunity than anything else. There were no civilians on the tarmac to cheer his plane, a Cameroon Airlines 747 with South African and Vatican flags on its forehead.
There was a 135-man honor guard in camouflage uniforms with orange tabs, a military band in cream-colored pith helmets, a long row of bishops in white cassocks with red sashes, a group of Polish Catholics from Thabazimbi waving Polish flags that matched the bishops, and Government dignitaries. President Mandela, who has worn sportshirts on state occasions, was outfitted in a gray suit with a dark tie.
At the foot of the ramp, which he descended slowly and carefully but without help, the Pope kissed a bowl of South African earth presented by four children from a Catholic orphanage. They were of four races, representing the country's rainbow-nation ethic. Kissing the bowl of earth instead of the tarmac symbolized only that John Paul no longer feels spry enough to kneel and kiss the ground.
After the speeches, which passing jets and revving police vehicles rendered largely inaudible, the Pope went to the Presidential Guest House in Pretoria for a reception. During his 42-hour visit here, he is not expected to visit any black neighborhoods, which has caused some grumbling. He acknowledged that obliquely in his speech, saying, "I hope some day soon to come back on a pastoral visit to the Catholic communities in those places which I will not now be able to visit."
On Monday he goes to Kenya for the last stop on his African tour. The Pope has only two stops on his official schedule on Sunday: his morning Mass at Gosforth Park, a racetrack southeast of Johannesburg, and the closing of the synod at the Cathedral of Christ the King in downtown Johannesburg. Predictions on attendance for the Pope's Sunday Mass have ranged from 220,000 to 400,000. Busloads have been arriving all day, and gospel musicians will be entertaining them all night.
Vice President F. W. de Klerk was the most prominent absentee from the receiving lines today, but he managed to make use of the Pope's visit on the campaign trail. A bill to legalize abortion is before Parliament. Mr. Mandela's African National Congress favors it; Mr. de Klerk's National Party is opposed.
"The fact that the Pope is here will have an impact on the debate," Mr. de Klerk said. "But I'm not going to politicize his visit whatsoever."
There are lingering ramifications from the Pope's opposition to apartheid that still bear on the political debate here. In 1989 the Pope, seeking to point an accusing finger straight at Pretoria, had the Pontifical Commission for Peace and Justice issue a paper saying racism -- even "harboring racist thoughts" -- was a sin and singling out apartheid.
Even with apartheid legally dead, the document is still relevant: It also cited as other sinful forms of racism: tribal conflicts, anti-Semitism, discrimination against migrant workers and prejudice against aboriginal peoples. In one way or another, every one of those is still an issue in South Africa.
Tribal conflicts between Xhosa and Zulu underlie some of violence between the African National Congress and the Inkatha Freedom Party. Anti-Semitism with roots in the early days of the diamond industry has never died. There are calls to boost the voltage in the electric fence that keeps Mozambican job-seekers out. And South Africa virtually wiped out its aboriginal people, the Khoisan, a century ago.

GRAPHIC: Map of Africa showing location of Johannesburg.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); AFRICA (94%); ITALY (90%); HOLY SEE (79%); LESOTHO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAMEROON (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ROME, ITALY (90%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (58%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH PAPAL VISIT PUBLICITY&RESERVATIONS OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH PAPAL VISIT PUBLICITY&RESERVATIONS OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (99%); AFRICA (94%); ITALY (90%); HOLY SEE (79%); LESOTHO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAMEROON (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ROME, ITALY (90%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); RELIGION (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); 

PERSON: MANDELA, NELSON R (PRES); POPE (JOHN PAUL II); MCNEIL, DONALD G JR POPE JOHN PAUL II (96%); NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



328 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots of the U.S. Economy: Some Clouds May Be Moving On;
Retailing Is Sluggish But Looking Stronger

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

DATELINE: WAYNE, N.J.

 BODY:
Scenes from a mall: Three women wait outside a Friendly's restaurant, their morning's purchases at their feet: four bags from Sears, three from the Disney Store and one each from the Gap and Woolworth's. One of the three studies a Macy's "Housewares Sale" catalogue. When a fourth woman arrives, they head toward Macy's.
A man in white shirt and tie, an accountant on his lunch break, strides empty-handed into the parking lot. "The store didn't have the sneaker I wanted," he said. 
 Willowbrook Mall is drawing both kinds of customers on this sunny Tuesday. Some are there for a day of shopping; others have one item in mind. But the good news for merchants is that many are actually shoppers, not just browsers.
"Business has been up, beginning at the end of August," said Lisa Ziegler, the manager of Jean Country, although sales for the year are still flat.
All year, sluggish retail sales, particularly of clothing, have exerted a drag on the American economy. Willowbrook, whose 182 shops cater to the middle class, is no exception. Traffic has been slow. There are no tourists here to bolster business, and few tony stores. A third of Willowbrook's clientele earns less than $25,000 a year; only 14 percent make more than $75,000.
Willowbrook is awash in sales signs: 30 percent off at Steinback, 25 percent at Macy's and Sears. And then there are the special offers at Quails, a local menswear chain; Suncoast Motion Picture Company; Wilson's Leather Goods; the Limited. Retailers said they were not cutting prices more than usual. Constant sales are a fact of life.
There are always sales," said Alejandro Gomez, a sales clerk at Just Shirts, where Henley shirts are now two for $40.
And customers expect them. "I comparison-shop," said Julia Schlesinger, a housewife in T-shirt and slacks. "I wait for sales, particularly on big items." Then she buys. Clutching a bag from Lechter's, a housewares chain, Ms. Schlesinger ticked off the clothing, shoes and back-to-school items she has purchased, many for her six-year-old son.
"I did more buying this year than last," Ms. Schlesinger said. "We had more money" because she and her husband refinanced their mortgage. "And I'll keep buying through the fall."
How many people are there like Ms. Schlesinger? Store managers say sales have been all over the lot this year. Just Shirts and Suncoast are up compared with last year; Quails and Sears are running even; Wilson's is down. So it seemed like time to employ the Rataczak bag index. "I look in malls at Christmas time and count the first 20 people I see and the number of bags they're carrying," said Donald Rataczak, an economist at Georgia State University. "If it's one bag per three people, everything's O.K. If it's less than that, I worry."
By that score, Willowbrook is doing better than O.K. Outside Macy's, the first 20 people were carrying 13 bags. At the mall's center, 20 shoppers clutched 7 bags. Outside Stern's, the first 20 were holding 11 bags.
And it's not even Christmas, when consumers like Steven G. Zucker, the empty-handed accountant, will join in. "We're shopping as little as possible" now, he said. "Then we'll go full-throttle in November for the holidays." JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumers Add Debt" shows total payments of principal and interest made by consumers each quarter from 1990-1995. (Source: J.P. Morgan & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%); TWMC (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (66%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (66%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WILLOWBROOK MALL (NJ) MACY'S INC (95%); TRANS WORLD ENTERTAINMENT CORP (66%); JUST SHIRTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILLOWBROOK MALL (NJ) JUST SHIRTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WAYNE (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (78%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); MEN'S CLOTHING (64%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H JULIA SCHLESINGER (75%); DONALD RATACZAK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



329 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots of the U.S. Economy: Some Clouds May Be Moving On;
Chip Maker Thrives In World of Its Own

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Calif.

 BODY:
At the sprawling corporate headquarters of the Intel Corporation here, an army of construction workers is racing to complete an addition that will double the capacity of a factory to turn out the next generation of microchips.
But that is just a fraction of the frenzied activity at Intel, which designs and builds the labyrinthine circuits etched on slivers of silicon that lie at the heart of about 80 percent of all the personal computers on desktops today. Intel is also expanding around the country and around the globe, with new plants added to existing campuses in Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon and Ireland. And an entirely new operation was just announced for the State of Washington. 
 Whether the economy expands or contracts, whether the Federal Reserve raises or lowers rates, Intel knows only one mode of operation: relentless growth.
While the overall economy appears to be growing at a rate of well under 3 percent, the computer industry has maintained annual growth rates of 20 percent for several years, and those increases are expected to continue through the end of the decade. And Intel, which has emerged as the dominant provider of the computer's most crucial component and as a powerful symbol of the comeback of advanced American industry, easily exceeds that rate.
"The computer industry is worldwide," said Craig Barrett, an executive vice president, "so it's not a U.S. economy or a European economy that we're tied to.
"When the local economy is bad, businesses tend to invest in computers to automate to keep from hiring people, and when the economy is good, the consumers start buying PC's. So whether the U.S. has a hard landing, a soft landing or no landing at all, it's a secondary effect."
But even though Intel is not particularly affected by the vicissitudes of the American economy, it is a driving force behind the explosion of capital spending in the 1990's that is helping to sustain its growth. "We are in effect betting that the PC revolution will continue for some years," Mr. Barrett said. "The bulk of capital we're investing today is for the 1998-99 time frame."
 Intel must move at a breakneck pace to keep up with the rapid pace of change in the industry. A recent project in Arizona, for example, went from ground breaking to chip production in 16 months.
With a crew of 2,000 needed at each site, Intel often even moves construction workers from state to state to sustain the pace.
"When we go into an area like Chandler, Ariz., or Albuquerque, N.M.," said Dick Engebetson, project manager for the Santa Clara expansion, "we just take the whole labor force down to nothing, we drain it." LAWRENCE M. FISHER

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Chip Makers Are Busy" shows ratio of new orders to shipments for North American semiconductor makers; three-month moving average plotted monthly, seasonally adjusted from 1990-1995. (Source: Semiconductor Industry Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP INTEL CORP (96%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



330 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots of the U.S. Economy: Some Clouds May Be Moving On;
A Buzz, Not a Roar, In Record Business

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
The meeting of marketing executives came to order -- with a boom. The air in the conference room at Geffen Records was suddenly throbbing to the new Sonic Youth song, "The Diamond Sea." The assembled goatees and ponytails bobbed to a screeching guitar riff that improbably got even louder.
"The album is definitely catching a buzz," David Grant, in charge of college promotion for Geffen, a unit of MCA Inc., told his colleagues once the noise had died down. There followed a brief discussion of how many hundred thousand albums the group would sell -- a performance that would be solid but unspectacular in an industry that loves multimillion-selling albums. 
 Mr. Grant's comment captured the mood of restrained optimism that is evident throughout the music and entertainment industries in what is proving to be a solid but unspectacular year. There is a buzz surrounding the whole entertainment world in this year of gargantuan mergers -- but it's just a buzz, not a roar. Job growth is up, but so are costs, and the excitement over all the new alliances has not had much impact on the bottom line.
The entertainment business, which produces an estimated $50 billion to $80 billion in economic activity a year, is growing at a decidedly moderate rate -- which means that more than ever it is counting on a great holiday season.
Recorded-music sales are flat. So is the film business. Video sales are up only slightly. The one bright spot is network television, where advertising revenues have been strong.
At Geffen Records' weekly marketing meeting Wednesday morning, the talk turned to the number of "spins," or plays on the radio, some recent releases had received in the last week. A Lisa Loeb single, "Do you Sleep?" had gotten 574 spins nationwide -- a respectable showing, but probably not a precursor of a blockbuster. "Queer," by an alternative band called Garbage produced 656 spins. "Garbage had a great week," said Robert Smith, head of marketing, And in general, talk revolved around grinding out moderate successes, not runaway hits.
According to Soundscan Inc., album and single song sales in the United States totaled 427.2 million units through Sept. 3, a scant three-tenths of a percent increase from what had been a record 1994. In fact, that is one reason the entertainment industry is having what appears to be a mediocre year -- 1994 was so strong.
"This is a hits-oriented business, so if you don't have any hits you're not doing that well," said Ed Rosenblatt, chairman of Geffen Records. "But my sense is that we're going to have a better Christmas than last."
Almost a third of the annual sales in the various entertainment industries come in the holiday season. But across the board, analysts said, they were anticipating a string of popular releases, with no real blockbusters in sight. JAMES STERNGOLD

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: MCA INC (UNIVERSAL CITY CA) (72%); MCA INC (UNIVERSAL CITY CA) (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (88%); RECORD REVENUES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); MERGERS (72%); SALES FIGURES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); MOVIE REVENUES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); NETWORK TELEVISION (64%); CHRISTMAS (64%); 

PERSON: DAVID GRANT (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



331 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots of the U.S. Economy: Some Clouds May Be Moving On;
Cost-Cutting Mission For Hospital Chief

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

DATELINE: LIVINGSTON, N.J.

 BODY:
Ronald J. Del Mauro, chief executive since 1986 of St. Barnabas Medical Center, the largest hospital in New Jersey and one of the largest in the country, eases his black 1995 Mercedes-Benz into the hospital parking lot just before dawn.
Ahead of him lies a 15-hour marathon of meetings, presentations and his weekly tour of the newborn, pediatric and burn-care units, this time with a visitor in tow. 
 It's not that St. Barnabas is in dire financial straits. Far from it. While it teetered on the brink of bankruptcy a decade ago, today it is in the pink, not the red. It treated a record 37,000 patients last year, and recently increased its staff to a total of 7,000.
But in an industry bedeviled by closings and pressures from all sides to hold costs down, Mr. Del Mauro can't afford to ease up. While the nonprofit hospital expects a surplus for 1995 of $18 million on a budget of $550 million, it did better last year, ending with $25 million out of $525 million.
And what happens here ripples widely. Today, annual health care spending accounts for 14 percent of the economy, or almost $1 trillion.
At a staff meeting, Mr. Del Mauro makes a point of reading aloud from a newsletter report that Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, the famed New York hospital, has money troubles and is cutting staff. "This is Columbia-Presbyterian," he says with a frown. "People used to genuflect before Columbia-Presbyterian."
Mr. Del Mauro, 48, was born and reared within a few miles of the hospital. While staff members call him "Ron" or "Mr. D," he inevitably bumps into people on his rounds from his old neighborhood who greet him with a fond "Ronnie!"
Mr. Del Mauro, who favors monogrammed shirts and often chews unlit Partagas cigars in lieu of lunch, has spent his entire professional life at the hospital.
These are some of the matters that weigh on his mind:
*An estimated two-thirds of New Jersey's 82 acute-care hospitals are in danger of going out of business.
*St. Barnabas will have to spend $88 million over the next seven years to computerize and integrate more than two dozen billing systems.
*Expenses can only go up as the population ages and medical technology becomes more sophisticated. But the Federal Government, insurance companies, health-maintenance organizations and consumers are all demanding price restraint.
"Payers are saying, 'We don't care what the hospital's costs are, we're going to pay you less,' " said Allen Dobson, vice president of Lewin-VHI, a health-care consultant in Fairfax, Va. "A hospital administrator drops to his knees and prays a lot."
Running an efficient hospital is critical, Mr. Del Mauro said while touring the neonatal unit. "As the nuns used to say, 'No money, no mission.' " Then he looked over at a tiny baby, born four months prematurely and no bigger than his palm. "This is why we have to do it," he says quietly. ANTHONY RAMIREZ

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hospital Chief -- Ronald J. Del Mauro, wearing suit, believes cost efficiency is crucial to the survival of St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livington, N.J., where he is chief executive. He watches as Dr. Michael Marano, left, examines a 21-month-old burn patient named Colby. The child's mother, Noreen Nighland, is at right, and Dr. Sridhar K, head of surgery, looks on. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) (pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ST BARNABAS MEDICAL CENTER (NJ) ST BARNABAS MEDICAL CENTER (68%); COLUMBIA PRESBYTERIAN MEDICAL CENTER (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST BARNABAS MEDICAL CENTER (NJ) COLUMBIA PRESBYTERIAN MEDICAL CENTER (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIVINGSTON (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOSPITALS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH HOSPITALS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PEDIATRICS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); ACUTE CARE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY; DEL MAURO, RONALD J (DR) RONALD J DEL MAURO (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



332 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Court Says Denver Can End Forced Busing

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: DENVER, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Although Denver public schools are more racially segregated than ever, a Federal judge has told the city it can abandon a 21-year-old court-supervised experiment in forced busing and return to neighborhood schools.
The new political power of Denver's black and Hispanic populations will guarantee that a fair share of public school money will be channeled to largely black and Hispanic schools, Judge Richard Matsch said in his ruling on Tuesday. 
 "The Denver now before this court is very different from what it was when this lawsuit began," wrote Judge Matsch, who has presided over the case since 1976. "The current mayor of Denver is black. His predecessor was Hispanic. A black woman has been superintendent of schools. Black and Hispanic men and women are in the City Council, the school board, the State Legislature and other political positions."
The ruling closes a bitter, quarter-century fight that traumatized a generation of parents and contorted the georgraphy of Denver, the largest city of the Rocky Mountains.
Busing undermined the goal of integration by contributing to massive white flight from the city's public school system. After thousands of white families migrated to the suburbs, the Colorado Legislature passed a law essentially barring Denver from annexing suburban areas. Today, city residents account for only one-fourth of the metropolitan region's two million people.
In 1968, the year before busing began, 63,398 white students attended Denver public schools. Last year, there were 18,000. Black enrollments have remained about 13,000, while Hispanic enrollments have increased to 28,283 from 18,611.
Today, educational and political leaders recognize that the return to neighborhood schools in many cases means the return to schools dominated by one race.
"Pre-1954 was separate and unequal," said the president of Denver's Board of Education, the Rev. Aaron Gray, referring to the year that the Supreme Court declared public school segregation illegal.
"The difference today is that you can step into an African-American school and you can see the same amount of resources that are provided to a majority Anglo school," said Mr. Gray, a Methodist minister, who is black.
In 1969, with the debate over court-ordered busing tearing the nation apart, Denver voters elected an anti-busing majority to the school board. Later that year, a Federal judge, William Doyle, ruled that Denver's school board deliberately segregated schools through a strategy of building schools and shifting attendance boundaries. Largely black schools routinely ended up with the oldest books and the youngest teachers.
White parents protested the forced busing, some holding signs, reading: "No one asked us what we want."
Arsonists destroyed one-third of the city's school buses and exploded a pipe bomb on the front porch of Wilfred Keyes, the lead plaintiff in the desegregation case.
But after a 1974 Supreme Court ruling to desegregate Denver schools, the buses rolled, carrying as many as a quarter of the city's students to schools far from their neighborhoods and causing many families to move.
"We lost 7,000 students in the summer of 1975," recalled Naomi L. Bradford, a white busing opponent who was elected head of the school board in 1985. "In the fall, we lost 100 students a week -- probably as soon as their homes were sold."
"Denver is now resegregated because there aren't enough Anglo students left," she said. Indeed, for the first time since the early 1960's, some Denver schools have more that 90 percent minority enrollments.
Opposition to busing accelerated the growth of Denver's largely white suburbs. To the west of Denver, Jefferson County is now Colorado's largest school district. To the south, Douglas County is the state's fastest growing school district.
Inside Denver, 15 percent of children now go to private schools, the highest rate in the region and twice the state average. Drifting away from city public schools, middle class blacks and Hispanics either moved to the suburbs or to Catholic schools in Denver, where they account for one-quarter of the 11,000 students.
With overall enrollments down, Denver's nearly half-a-billion-dollar school budget now provides about $7,300 per student a year, about the amount of tuition charged by the better private schools.
"While the city enjoys an economic and cultural renaissance, its schools are widely viewed as an expensive embarrassment," The Rocky Mountain News, a local newspaper, wrote in a recent report on the school system.
Belying modern Denver's glittering image, the public school system has become a dumping ground for poor and disadvantaged children. Ten percent of the students are in special education, one-fourth lack proficiency in English, and two-thirds qualify for subsidized lunches.
Although high school diploma standards have been eased in recent years, the number of eligible students graduating from high school has slipped from three-quarters in 1990 to two-thirds today. In the past decade, the number of disciplinary suspensions has tripled, to 7,183 in 1994.
"Black neighborhoods were also shattered by busing," said Donna Good, educational assistant to Denver's Mayor, Wellington Webb.
For more than a decade, Judge Matsch rejected repeated legal appeals to abandon busing. But the city's School Board, controlled in recent years by black and Hispanic presidents, started quietly to curtail busing. Without waiting for judicial approval, the board pulled nine elementary schools out of the busing program this summer, reducing to 10 percent the number of students being bused.
"What Matsch leaves in his wake is an urban school district from which a large portion of the middle class has fled," the Rocky Mountain News wrote in an editorial on Wednesday. "Can such families be attracted back? Perhaps, but not easily."
But some educators believe that a wholesale return to neighborhood schools next year will revive the public school system.
"Enrollments at those schools are up, parental involvement is up," Mr. Aaron said of the nine elementary schools that were dropped from the busing program.
At Smedley Elementary, a largely Hispanic school, the principal estimated last May that 525 students would enroll in September. After the school was dropped from the busing program, enrollment jumped to 604. Similar gains were registered this month at largely white and largely black schools that were pulled out of the busing program.
"Many families are concerned that they cannot attend school meetings -- having neighborhood schools back helps us to rebuild the neighborhoods," said Mayor Webb, who is black.
A supporter of busing 20 years ago, Mr. Webb said: "The key issue today is to assure that kids receive the best education, regardless of what neighborhood they are in."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (75%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DENVER'S BOARD (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: DENVER'S BOARD (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER (COLO); UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (75%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SCHOOL BUSING; BLACKS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); DISCRIMINATION; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JUDGES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); FAMILY (77%); SUBURBS (77%); MAYORS (74%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%); ARSON (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; MATSCH, RICHARD (JUDGE)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



333 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-14
 
LONG ROAD FOR SERBS
Among the Serbs who dreamed of greater Serbia, many are finding that the end of the road is back in Serbia, now a desolate land of broken promises. 1
 

NEW NATO WARNING TO SERBS
The Bosnian Serbs have been slow to carry out their agreement to remove heavy weapons from around Sarajevo, leading to a new warning from NATO of air strikes. 12
 
NEW SWAN FOR BRITAIN
The mammoth new British Library, much criticized for its design, is about to come out from under wraps, and as it emerges many people find it glorious. 1
 
NEW TALKS ON PALESTINIANS
A new meeting of Israeli and Palestinian leaders will try to resolve the tough issue of Hebron in the talks on expanding Palestinian self-rule to the rest of the West Bank. 14
 
A PASSION FOR ADVENTURE
The men who died when Belarus shot down their balloon last week were passionate adventurers who had spent much of their lives roaming the air aloft. 3
 
National 16-41
 
OPTIMISM ON WELFARE
Signaling the growing chances for a welfare overhaul, President Clinton praised the Senate for its actions on a bill and said that a week of bipartisan negotiations had the nation "within striking distance of transforming the welfare system." 1
 
NOT JUMPING TO CONCLUSIONS
In New Hampshire, residents say not to place too much faith in polls showing a lopsided race in the Republican Presidential primary. 1
 
STORM STRIKES ST. THOMAS
A hurricane hit the Caribbean island of St. Thomas, damaging many homes and causing an apartment house to collapse. 1
 
TAKING THE ECONOMIC PULSE
Interviews with a cross-section of people from around the country seem to indicate that the economic expansion that began in April 1991 may be about to get a second wind. 1
 
THE AUTHOR GENERAL
General Colin L. Powell, once the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is facing the pressures and expectations of authorship. 20
 
DOLE'S DEFENSE
Senator Bob Dole defended his wife's stewardship of the American Red Cross and rejected suggestions that she was using her position to benefit his campaign for the Republican Presidential nomination. 26
 
A DOCTOR FIGHTS BACK
A Tampa surgeon vilified for amputating the wrong leg of a patient is seeking to regain the right to practice medicine. 28
 
RECONSIDERING AIDS STRATEGY
After years of recommending AZT as the first-line drug for treating the virus that causes AIDS, Federal health officials are considering a change. 38
 
Metropolitan 43-49
 
4 DEAD IN MURDER-SUICIDE
A man shot and killed his 6-year-old daughter and her two teen-age sisters before killing himself after a fight with his girlfriend in their Queens home, the police said. 43
 
WHO'LL BATTLE DOLE?
Other Republicans have said they would like to challenge Senator Bob Dole in New York's Presidential primary, but only one appears ready to devote the immense resources it will take. 43
 
EVER IN MOURNING
At St. Barbara's Roman Catholic Church in Bushwick, Brooklyn, where there were 245 funerals last year, a small group of elderly parishioners prays and sings for the dead every weekday morning. 43
 
Obituaries 50
 
Victor M. Contini, translated artists' visions into bronze sculpture.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); BELARUS (71%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); BELARUS (71%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); SHOOTINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); WRITERS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (71%); AIDS & HIV (69%); MURDER (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (66%); HURRICANES (64%); TROPICAL STORMS (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (61%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); SUICIDE (60%); LIBRARIES (56%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



334 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots of the U.S. Economy: Some Clouds May Be Moving On;
Bankers See Upturn For Midsize Clients

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT 

DATELINE: GREENVALE, L.I.

 BODY:
Cruising east on the Long Island Expressway, it seems every other truck bears a company name well known to Frank Lourenso and Richard E. Grabowski, two senior Chemical Bank lending officers who are calling on some customers. Here in Long Island's industrial heartland, smokestacks are scarce, but there is no lack of "middle market" businesses -- small enough to be entrepreneurial, but big enough to need millions of dollars in bank financing to pay for everything from inventories to expansion.
"Business has been pretty good lately, and we have seen some solid loan growth since February," said Mr. Lourenso, a top loan executive. His experience at Chemical mirrors the national trend; bank loans to businesses have increased 11 percent in the last year to an annual rate of $695 billion last month. That is well above the peak level before the recession and the credit squeeze of the early 1990's. 
 At the Slant/Fin Corporation, a privately owned manufacturer of boilers and baseboard units for heating systems here, Donald Brown, the president, says he is being squeezed by rising prices for raw materials, particularly for aluminum and cardboard. Meanwhile, he is under constant pressure from distributors and wholesalers asking for discounts or rebates.
"It's one of those times when if you can't make a buck," Mr. Brown said, "you try and make half a buck."
The Chemical bankers are not alarmed at Slant/Fin's story. Earlier this year, they lent the company an undisclosed amount to buy new computerized metal-shaping machinery. The new machines improved the productivity of Slant/Fin's approximately 500 workers and helped the company expand its product line.
Driving to the next appointment, Mr. Lourenso muses aloud about the Slant/Fin executives. "The most successful customers are always moaning about how tough business is and how hard they have to work. I think that's why they are successful."
While Slant/Fin has been cautious enough that it has never lost money, Aeroflex Inc., a Plainview, L.I.-based manufacturer of electronic parts that relies on military contracts for 75 percent of its sales, is different. The company lost more than $30 million in 1991.
But now, with new management and a record profit last year of $7 million on revenue of $71 million, Chemical is considering financing new acquisitions.
Consolidating manufacturing at Aeroflex's plants on Long Island and New Jersey would help productivity and keep the company a low-cost producer for major military contractors like Lockheed Martin and Boeing.
"The military can't afford to spend billions on a new radar system," said Michael Gorin, president of Aeroflex, "but they can spend hundreds of thousands to vastly improve the equipment they already have." That leaves room for growth at Aeroflex, he said, "so long as we stay current or ahead of the technology and pick our niches wisely." MICHAEL QUINT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%); LMT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333414 HEATING EQUIPMENT (EXCEPT WARM AIR FURNACES) MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (84%); SIC3433 HEATING EQUIPMENT, EXCEPT ELECTRIC & WARM AIR FURNACES (84%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (82%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (82%); NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (82%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (82%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (82%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SLANT/FIN CORP (84%); AEROFLEX INC (82%); CHEMICAL BANK (58%); BOEING CO (50%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (88%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (84%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (77%); WHOLESALERS (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TRENDS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); RADAR SYSTEMS (72%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); BOILER MFG (67%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; LOURENSO, FRANK; GRABOWSKI, RICHARD E FRANK LOURENSO (74%); DONALD BROWN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



335 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots of the U.S. Economy: Some Clouds May Be Moving On

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Donald Rataczak, an economist at Georgia State University, checks out the number of buildings with "for sale" and "for lease" signs whenever he goes into downtown Atlanta. And he usually finds out how full the motels are during the two big furniture shows in High Point-Greensboro, N.C.
Stephen S. Roach constantly talks to securities analysts at Morgan Stanley, his Wall Street firm. They relay the sentiment they are hearing from executives at hundreds of companies. As for Henry Kaufman, the renowned prognosticator, "when I drive home in New Jersey, I always look to see how crowded the shopping center parking lots are." 
 Sure, economists pore over government statistics to gauge the strength of the American economy. But many of the most sophisticated, like these well-known experts, also factor in personal observations and anecdotal evidence before they make their forecasts.
Judging by what a cross-section of people across the country said in interviews last week, the nation's economic pulse may well be beating a little faster than many recent statistics indicate. While consumers, bankers, home builders, entertainment executives and a host of others remain cautious, particularly about jobs and salaries, their observations suggest that this economic expansion, which began in April 1991, may be about to get a second wind:
*In northern New Jersey, where shopping malls have had a bleak year, some consumers are buying more now than they did last September. And others said they planned to lighten their wallets as the holidays draw near.
*At the Intel Corporation in the Silicon Valley of California, the demand for computer chips is so hot that the company keeps building new capacity, creating hundreds of manufacturing jobs at its Santa Clara plant alone.
*In Denver, John Osborn, a home builder, plans to construct just as many homes this year as last, the best year in the city in a decade.
Though never definitive, anecdotal economic clues should prove useful now. For months, reading the economic data has been a lot like reading health studies. One day, factory orders are down and margarine is the best thing to spread on breakfast toast; the next day, home sales are up and butter is a better bet.
Yet right now is exactly when people need to know where the economy is going. With summer vacations fast fading into memories, corporate executives are laying out plans and budgets for next year. They are deciding how much to spend, or to cut, and how many people they will add or dismiss.
The Federal Reserve, which lowered interest rates a quarter-point in July in response to a marked slowdown in the economy, is scheduled to meet on Sept. 26 and again on Nov. 15 to weigh whether another reduction is warranted.
And millions of men and women, many of whom are insecure about their jobs and uncertain about their income, are deciding how much to spend in the coming months, the make-or-break period for the retailing industry. How consumers feel is crucial, because their spending is driving the economy now even though hefty corporate investment in plants and equipment has been more important in this recovery than usual.
The expansion itself is at a critical juncture. Every period of economic growth has a life span, and this recovery is now 54 months old. Economists are divided over whether that should be considered middle-aged or just plain aged.
"Over the past three decades, we've had both short-cycle and long-cycle expansions," said Mr. Roach of Morgan Stanley. "The short ones lasted an average of 47 months, so it could be old and ready for a fall. If this is a long one, they lasted an average of 99 months, so we're just halfway there."
 The way it looks now, Mr. Roach said, this is a long one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (82%); MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (82%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); STATISTICS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); MICROPROCESSORS (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); FACTORY ORDERS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H HENRY KAUFMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



336 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots of the U.S. Economy: Some Clouds May Be Moving On;
Despite Higher Rates, Miles Wear on Trucker

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: PRESIDIO COUNTY, Tex.

 BODY:
Charles Holman had no time to clean out the mud and the dung from his livestock trailer because he had to drive 760 miles after delivering a truckload of cattle in Colorado the day before.
Now, on a west Texas ranch, he was coaxing and prodding 111 terrified calves into the trailer, a double-decker aluminum labyrinth of cramped compartments. 
 They kicked, they scrambled, they bellowed. They added to the malodorous mess and they splattered it on his jeans, his shirt and his face.
To stomp around in this slop day after day, "you've got to have diesel fuel for blood," Mr. Holman said, and manure for brains.
As an independent trucker with his own rig, he also has to have the financial savvy of a corporate treasurer to turn a profit when the industry he depends on -- ranching -- is in a slump.
Judged by one important number, his business is picking up. Mr. Holman managed to negotiate a 9 percent increase in his rates this year, to $2.40 a loaded mile from $2.20. That's three times the 3 percent consumer-price inflation rate that most economists are predicting for the United States for all of 1995.
But Mr. Holman is not celebrating. For one thing, his bottom line still looks pretty weak. He says his income this year -- after expenses but before taxes -- from the truck he operates and a second trailer that he rents out will total $18,000 at most. And if ranchers keep cutting back their herds, he adds, he might have to go out hustling for business again. "I read where the economy is getting better every day," he said. "But I live in a farming and ranch area. It doesn't look like it's getting better here."
The biggest threat to his prosperity at the moment, though, probably isn't economic uncertainty. It is his age. At 56, he can still bound up into his cab without a grunt and, brandishing his yellow electric prod, can still let the cattle know who's boss. But his beard has turned white and he is less willing to spend night after night in his cab's vinyl-upholstered sleeping compartment instead of at home with his wife in Childress, in the Texas Panhandle. After almost four decades of driving, he said, "The old miles just kind of wear me down."
As he drives less, with the gross income from his truck falling to a projected $70,000 this year, from $102,000 in 1994, Mr. Holman is taking no chances. Instead of buying a shiny new rig, he has stayed with a 1985 Autocar that he found for $30,000 in 1990, less than half the original price. It has now been driven 1.2 million miles.
His son got a nearly new truck last year just by agreeing to assume someone else's payments. After five months, Mr. Holman recounts, the bank had the truck and his son was calling him for leads on a new job. ALLEN R. MYERSON

GRAPHIC: Photo: Truck Driver -- Charles Holman, an independent trucker from Childress, Tex., loading cattle into his trailer. Although Mr. Holman negotiated a 9 percent rate increase this year, he worries about his business, which is dependent on ranching. (Mark Sterkel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (72%); INFLATION (71%); DIESEL FUEL (55%); 

PERSON: HOLMAN, CHARLES; MYERSON, ALLEN R CHARLES HOLMAN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



337 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: People Want More Information For Health Choices, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Most people would like to have more information to help them choose hospitals, doctors and health care plans, a new survey by Louis Harris and Associates has found.
Many large employers already receive reports from health maintenance organizations and other health plans on how satisfied their members are. Many employers and health plans also collect appraisals of doctors and hospitals by patients. But such reports are not often shown to the consumers themselves, company benefits executives say. 
 In the Harris survey, which was commissioned by Towers Perrin, a benefits consulting firm, 66 percent said they would like to see report cards for hospitals, 58 percent said they would like to see consumer ratings of physicians and 52 percent wanted ratings for health plans.
The telephone survey of 1,081 people was weighted to reflect all United States heads of households, or spouses, age 21 and older. The margin of error was plus or minus 3 percentage points. Most were employees of large companies, which other surveys have shown are most likely to offer choices of health plans. Only one small company in eight offers two or more health plans, according to Foster Higgins, another benefits consulting firm.
In the Towers Perrin survey, 56 percent said they would probably allow their primary doctor to choose a specialist for them, but 54 percent said they would rather use their own judgment when choosing a hospital for a family member.
"Consumers want to have choices and choices that they can afford," said Karen Davis, an economist who is president of the Commonwealth Fund, a foundation that studies health care issues. Managed health care organizations typically require their members to pay more if they choose specialists and hospitals that are not on a restricted list.
The survey also found continued support for Medicare, the Federal health-insurance program for the elderly and disabled, whose budget Congressional leaders want to cut by billions of dollars. In a finding that showed little change from earlier surveys, 68 percent said they did not want Medicare to be cut at all, and 59 percent of that group said they would support a tax increase to pay for its rising costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPOL (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HARRIS, LOUIS, AND ASSOCIATES INC HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARRIS, LOUIS, AND ASSOCIATES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PUBLIC OPINION; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS; HEALTH INSURANCE POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); HOSPITALS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); BUDGETS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); TAX LAW (62%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



338 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Canadians Reconsider Rising Costs Of Benefits

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Sept. 16

 BODY:
With generous welfare and other public allowances, an envied national health program and gleaming subways and other services, Canada has always been considered more socially responsive than the United States -- more like a North American Sweden.
But over the last 10 years, Canada has undergone huge spending increases, the steepest rise in taxes of any industrial country and long stagnation of middle-class incomes. Now the central and provincial governments are racing to balance budgets, reduce debt and cut taxes, at the expense of services that have long been taken for granted. 
 Under the national health system, for example, provinces are closing and merging hospitals and scaling back universal coverage, which pays for visits to doctors and hospitals.
The Prime Minister, Jean Chretien, has has set a goal of cutting annual health spending from 10 percent to 8.5 percent of the gross domestic product, or by $10 billion ($7.3 billion United States). Budget cuts are expected to include areas like welfare, pensions, family allowances, child care, hostel services for the homeless, legal aid and help for the disabled.
"The public has more or less accepted the rationale for these cuts," said Donna Dasko, vice president of the Environics Research Group. "They have come to see now that governments can't do everything."
Until the 1990's, Canadians enjoyed long stretches of economic growth. Yet people have since failed to enjoy improvements in their standard of living and are increasingly questioning the results of billions of dollars of social spending.
"The average Canadian has not seen the benefits of the various social programs and hears of abuse, all sorts of horror stories about people ripping off the systen," said Fred Lazar, an economics professor at York University here. "So he says, 'I'd rather keep more money than be taxed to finance a program that shows no visible signs of success.' "
These attitudes about taxes and big government were used by coalitions of business and rural interests to win elections in Ontario, Manitoba, Alberta and New Brunswick.
Leaders in all but New Brunswick are Conservative. Premier Frank McKenna of that province, a Liberal, has just won a third term after balancing the books and paying down some of the accumulated debt.
Mike Harris, elected Premier of Ontario in June, wants to cut taxes by 30 percent over the next three years and has already been trimming programs that serve the poor, including 1.2 million on welfare.
"We were on this train long before Gingrich," said Graham White, a political scientist at the University of Toronto. "It reflects the same kind of sentiments broadly around in North America and further afield, emphasizing reduction in the welfare state and government intervention, tapping the same kind of resentments and fears."
The Reform Party has been preaching smaller government and tax cuts for years, and in the 1993 federal elections it mushroomed from a small populist alliance into the third-largest party in the lower house of Parliament, after the governing Liberal Party and the opposition Bloc Quebecois.
All the cutbacks, with promises of more to come, have not been greeted without criticism.
"We have left the postmodern age and entered the post-human age," Clayton Ruby, a Toronto lawyer, said, expressing an sentiment that is shared by many who are opposed to the retrenchment in social spending. "The bonds of common humanity, our obligation to each other, are no longer reflected by government."
Despite such arguments, there have yet to be any large protests. In a sign of the popular support for spending cuts, The Toronto Star, Canada's biggest newspaper, opened its phone lines one weekend in late July to gauge reaction to the policies put forth by Mr. Harris as Premier of Ontario. Of the 4,000 people who called, supporters outnumbered opponents by a ratio 3 to 1, the newspaper said, adding, "Many of the Harris supporters sounded jubilant."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); ALBERTA, CANADA (79%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH GROUP (51%); LIBERAL PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); ALBERTA, CANADA (79%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOMELESS PERSONS; CHILD CARE; LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR; HANDICAPPED; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; FINANCES BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); LEGAL AID (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); DISABLED PERSONS (52%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H JEAN CHRETIEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



339 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Long Live Saddam Hussein

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Which Arab leader would you say is most likely to remain in power longest? Well, if you were to answer that question on the basis of which Arab leader had the most colleagues rooting for him, the answer would be obvious: it would not be Hosni Mubarak, or King Hussein, or Yasir Arafat. It would be Saddam Hussein. That's right. Saddam Hussein may look as if he's in trouble, and he could fall tomorrow or in the year 2010. But whenever he goes, be sure of one thing: more leaders in the Middle East will put on a black tie and mourn his passing than would for any of his colleagues.
This would be funny if it weren't so tragic: while the Clinton Administration is working and praying for Saddam's demise, most of his fellow rulers like him just the way he is. That is, strong enough to hold Iraq together, weak enough not to threaten his neighbors, embargoed enough not to be able to sell too much oil and caged enough not to be a factor in inter-Arab politics. That is a Saddam that serves a lot of people's interests, and the Clinton Administration is fooling itself if it thinks otherwise. 
 To understand why, you first have to understand who are the likely alternatives to Saddam. Check the list. Thomas Jefferson's name is not on it. If Saddam is toppled, there are three likely alternatives. The first is no one. In this scenario the Iraqi state disintegrates into Kurdish, Shiite and Sunni pieces after Saddam's grip is broken. The second scenario is that Saddam will be succeeded by Saddam, that is by another relative or army general equally nasty, because, some argue, the only way to keep Iraq united is by repressing Iraqis at home and threatening their neighbors abroad. The third possibility, the one the U.S. is counting on, is that a "nice" Saddam will come along -- some enlightened Iraqi authoritarian, strong enough to hold Iraq together but nice enough to accommodate himself to the Arab-Israeli peace process, regional stability and Western economic interests.
But it is precisely a nice Saddam who would be most threatening to his neighbors. Just go down the list. The last thing Syria wants is a "nice" pro-American Iraq that is ready to join the Arab-Israeli peace process ahead of Syria. An Iraq ready to reconcile with Israel only puts more pressure on Damascus to do the same. Syria's strategic nightmare is an Iraq that is on good terms with Israel and Jordan, leaving Syria isolated.
Egypt? The Egyptians still have not adjusted to the fact that they have lost their monopoly as the only Arabs with close ties to Israel, the U.S. and the Arab world. President Mubarak is already enraged at Jordan for usurping this unique Egyptian role. (Mr. Mubarak and King Hussein are barely on speaking terms.) The last thing Egypt wants is a nice Iraq that returns to the Arab fold and joins Jordan as a competitor with Cairo for primacy in the Arab world.
Saudi Arabia? Get out your calculator. A nice Iraq is an Iraq no longer under U.N. embargo and that Iraq would immediately export one to two million barrels of oil a day, which the world market doesn't need. Oil experts say the day Iraq re-enters the world market, the price of oil drops from $18 to $14 a barrel. Saudi Arabia pumps eight million barrels a day. So a nice Saddam costs the Saudis $32 million a day, or $11.7 billion a year. Sorry, not worth it. Especially since opposing an evil Saddam gives Saudi Arabia an important role in U.S. military planning. As long as Saddam is a threat, the Saudis know that Washington will never put Saudi Arabia's human rights abuses under a spotlight.
Iran too loves Saddam. The last thing Iran wants is a nice Iraq, which then leaves Iran as the only bad boy in the neighborhood, whose misbehavior everyone will then focus upon.
And then there is something all these Middle East leaders have in common. They hate change: the disintegration of Iraq terrifies all of them because it raises the prospect of independent, irredentist Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish enclaves, each trying to connect with disaffected brethren in other countries. And democracy in Iraq, as unlikely as that might be, is equally terrifying because the last thing Syria, Iran and Saudi Arabia want is a democratic Iraq that would highlight their own lack of glasnost.
Yes, Saddam is an evil man, but he's got so many people praying for him each night he could still end up going to heaven.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ (96%); SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); POLITICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); ARMIES (52%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); HOSNI MUBARAK (57%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



340 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 36; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: Forget the Past

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The way you explain it, money making is easy ("Making Money: It's a Matter of Time, Not Timing," Investing It, July 30). I wonder why more people aren't rich. 
 Unfortunately, the period from 1975 to 1994, which was charted in your article, is not representative of past or future returns.
For example, if a 45-year-old in 1966 used the T. Rowe Price plan to provide for retirement at age 62 in 1983, he would be lucky to get his investments back, let alone any returns. Even worse, adjusted for inflation he would wind up with losses.
As the boilerplate in every mutual fund states, past performance is no assurance of future results.
Perhaps your investment advice columns should also state that voluntarily, before the Securities and Exchange Commission makes it mandatory.
 
HENRY FOGEL
Lexington, Mass., July 30

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: T ROWE PRICE INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); T ROWE PRICE STABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); BONDS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



341 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: SEPT. 10-16: Waning Wanderlust;
Census Finds Americans Less Eager to Move

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

 BODY:
The proportion of Americans moving from one state to another is at its lowest level since 1950, the Census Bureau said last week, and the percentage of those changing address -- either across the street or across the continent -- is at its second lowest level since 1948. In the 1950's and 1960's, 20 percent of the population changed residences; in 1993 to 1994 16.7 percent did.
Demographers, sociologists and economists blame the trend on an aging population, the growth of two-income families and persistent economic insecurity. To some, the trend signals more. 
 "We have always been a country based on optimism and new frontiers," said Walter Dean Burnham, professor of government at the University of Texas. "This seems like a different world." STEVEN A. HOLMES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; POPULATION SHIFTS CENSUS (92%); TRENDS (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (88%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AGING TRENDS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); FAMILY (67%); AGING (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A STEVEN A HOLMES (55%); WALTER DEAN BURNHAM (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



342 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consumers Gain From Mexico Trade Pact;
Real Job Losses

 BODY:
To the Editor:
With all due respect to Senator Richard G. Lugar (letter, Sept. 8), it's time for a reality check on the North American Free Trade Agreement and United States job loss. 
 Senator Lugar's claim that exports to Mexico surged by almost 22 percent in 1994 is countered by the fact that imports also surged -- by 24 percent. A candidate for President should understand that if exports lead to jobs, imports lead to job losses.
Large, persistent trade deficits represent a significant drag on real gross domestic product growth and contribute to the loss of jobs and declining real wages. At a rate of 17,000 jobs at stake for every $1 billion in trade, the $8.6 billion merchandise trade deficit with Mexico in the first six months of 1995 cost the United States 146,000 jobs.
Meanwhile, Cimex-WEFA, the economic forecasting service, estimates that maquiladora jobs south of the border will rise by more than 130,000 by the end of 1996.
Direct competition with Mexican workers, whose pay in dollar terms decreased by 50 percent after devaluation, continues to place downward pressure on United States wages. In June 1995, real average hourly earnings for production workers fell to $11.96 compared with $13.05 in 1986.
The Mexican economy contracted 10.5 percent in the second quarter of this year. A boom for Mexico's biggest industrial exporters has not brought benefits to the majority of Mexican workers -- and has a negative impact on job security and wages of United States workers.
Many promises of benefits from the North American Free Trade Agreement were made to secure its adoption by Congress. Eighteen months under the agreement have been disappointing. Any attempts to expand the trade agreement should proceed with caution and should include an objective study of the long-term effects of this flawed agreement.
 
GREGORY WOODHEAD
Economist, A.F.L.-C.I.O. Task
Force on Trade
Washington, Sept. 12, 1995

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DISMISSALS (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); DEVALUATION (67%); 

PERSON: LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN) DICK LUGAR (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



343 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 40; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER 

 BODY:

ALL'S FAIR: LOVE, WAR, AND RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT
By Mary Matalin and James Carville with Peter Knobler. Random House and Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $13.
 The chief spin specialists of the 1992 Presidential race explain how they managed not only opposing political campaigns but also their unorthodox courtship. The result is "a him-and-her comedy, worthy of early Hepburn and Tracy," Gore Vidal wrote here in 1994.
 
CLOSING TIME
By Joseph Heller. Scribner Paperback, $13.
 Appropriately, there are bombs and missiles, both military and verbal, in this novel, which features some of the surviving cast of Mr. Heller's most famous work, "Catch-22." But now Yossarian and his former comrades from the earlier novel are decades older and fighting a war with mortality. Last year our reviewer, William H. Pritchard, said, "Rather than thinking of 'Closing Time' as the sequel to 'Catch-22,' I'd call it instead an independent creation in whose best parts the seriousness and the joking are inseparable, as they should be in art."
 

PROTECTING SOLDIERS AND MOTHERS: The Political
Origins of Social Policy in the United States
By Theda Skocpol. Belknap/Harvard University, $15.95.
 Republicans weren't always suspicious of big government. According to the author, they were the originators of veterans' pensions and other benefits. What helped doom social spending, she argues, was the lack of a working-class consciousness and the hostility of the judiciary. Her book is "a monumental study that will likely become a classic," Rosalind Rosenberg wrote in these pages in 1993. Harvard has also reissued PITIED BUT NOT ENTITLED: Single Mothers and the History of Welfare, 1890-1935, by Linda Gordon ($15.95), which demonstrates that Aid to Families With Dependent Children was always a flawed program. Intended to buttress the male-breadwinner household that was fast disappearing, it left women with unemployed husbands -- or no husbands -- little recourse. This is a "skillfully written and well-documented account," Frank F. Furst enberg Jr. said in the Book Review last year.
 
NIGHTFATHER
By Carl Friedman. Translated by Arnold Pomerans and Erica Pomerans. Persea, $7.95.
A Dutch girl of 7 or 8 narrates the story of her family. Her father, a former prisoner in a concentration camp, cannot stop talking about his horrific past, a tendency that ironically perpetuates the long-defeated Nazis' power by making his children fear them. In 1994 our reviewer, Richard Burgin, said the author writes "without ever compromising her compassion or extinguishing her sense of hope." The Holocaust's legacy is also explored in TO PAINT HER LIFE: Charlotte Salomon in the Nazi Era, by Mary Lowenthal Felstiner (Harper Perennial, $16), a biography of a young German Jew who died in Auschwitz, leaving behind her "Life? or Theater?," a combination of drawings and text that captured her family's sad history as well as the period's. "Ms. Felstiner tells this harrowing tale clearly and emotionally," Peter Gay wrote here last year.
 
RARE & ENDANGERED SPECIES: A Novella & Stories
By Richard Bausch. Vintage Contemporaries, $12.
 In these nine pieces the author examines the human heart where it often displays its most puzzling vagaries: at home and among family. Mr. Bausch shows that his "fidelity to the domestic is at times extraordinarily daring," Carol Shields said in these pages in 1994.
 
DREAMS OF TRESPASS: Tales of a Harem Girlhood
By Fatima Mernissi. Addison-Wesley, $12.
 Raised in Morocco in the 1940's, the author comes from a family whose women often aspired to an equality that Islam denied them. Her reflections make for a "wonderful and enchanting" book, Adrienne Edgar wrote in the Book Review last year. Women continue to suffer injuries and indignities in many Moslem countries, writes Jan Goodwin in PRICE OF HONOR: Muslim Women Lift the Veil of Silence on the Islamic World (Plume, $12.95). From genital mutilation to uxoricide, she "finds a list of horrors almost past belief," one critic said in 1994.
 
HENRY AND CLARA
By Thomas Mallon. Picador USA, $13.
 Henry Rathbone and Clara Harris, an engaged couple, shared Abraham and Mary Lincoln's box at Ford's Theater. This fictional account attempts to explain why their own destiny was as dark and bloody as the President's. "Mr. Mallon makes the grisly denouement feel inevitable," Valerie Sayers wrote here last year.
 
REASONABLE CREATURES: Essays on Women and
Feminism
By Katha Pollit. Vintage, $11.
 In 19 previously published pieces the author explores the relationship between the sexes and its impact on politics. Writing on subjects like abortion rights and date rape, she has produced a "cunning and complex collection," Susan Shapiro said here in 1994.
 
BROTHERS AND SISTERS
By Bebe Moore Campbell. Berkley, $6.99.
 The setting is a bank in Los Angeles just after the violence precipitated by the Rodney King verdict in 1992. Here men and women, some black, some white, pursue their lives and careers in an atmosphere fraught with tension. Last year our reviewer, Elizabeth Gleick, praised "Ms. Campbell's genuine attempt to address the complexities of race in the modern age."
 
TUSCALOOSA
By W. Glasgow Phillips. Plume, $10.95.
 The 22-year-old son of a psychiatrist falls in love with one of his father's hospitalized patients, a young woman who claims to be sane. The author displays "keen psychological insights" and "an admirable gentleness in his prose," Jim Gladstone said in the Book Review in 1994. LAUREL GRAEBER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); CHILDREN (87%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LITERATURE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (70%); FAMILY (68%); SINGLE PARENTS (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (65%); HOLOCAUST (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH HELLER (71%); EUGENE LUTHER 'GORE' VIDAL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



344 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 2; Page 32; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1958 words

HEADLINE: Japan, a Superpower Among Superheroes

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
HAYAO MIYAZAKI COULD teach Walt Disney a thing or two. Every year, Mr. Miyazaki and his collaborators produce an animated movie that is breathtaking for its lush, detailed scenery and its subtle use of colors. Almost every year, the movie is among the top hits in Japan. And every time a Miyazaki film goes head to head with a Disney animated feature at the box office in Japan, the Miyazaki film wins.
For all his success in Japan, however, Mr. Miyazaki is barely known to audiences elsewhere. But that probably won't be for long. Japanese animation is starting to sweep through the world, becoming the nation's first big pop culture export. 
 Animation, which is known in Japan as anime (pronounced AH-nee-may), is diverse. At one extreme is Mr. Miyazaki, who thinks that even Disney movies lack "decency." He produces sugary stories like "My Neighbor Totoro," about two young girls who are befriended by a mythical creature who flies around on a living bus shaped like a cat. About 450,000 copies of the video have been distributed in the United States since July 1994, marking Mr. Miyazaki's first success with American audiences.
At the other extreme might be "Urotsuki Doji: Legend of the Overfiend," an adults-only cartoon that was a popular midnight movie in places like the Angelika Theater in New York. It features grotesque monsters from another world forcing bizarre sex on cute teen-age earthlings.
In between is a whole panoply of space warriors, saucy goddesses, hard-nosed athletes, klutzy teen-agers who are transformed into superheroes and a martial arts master who changes into a woman when splashed with cold water. And robots -- oh, so many gigantic, fighting robots!
For all the success of Japan as an exporter of cars and camcorders, its music, movies, television shows and books, with a few exceptions, do not sell well abroad.
But in cartoons, and in the closely related comic books, Japan is a superpower. Consider this: Last year, more than half of the box-office revenues of Japan's movie industry came from animation. More than 10 percent of all the books and magazines published in Japan are comics. And according to one survey, more than 60 percent of the hours of television programming exported from Japan are cartoons.
Japanese cartoons like Dragon Ball Z are hits in Europe, especially in France and Spain. In Vietnam, children line up every Friday to buy the latest installment of the comic book Doraemon, about a robotic cat who draws magical devices from his kangaroolike pouch to help a hapless schoolboy.
Even in the United States, where there is more local competition, Japanese animation, or Japanimation, has developed a cult following that is growing.
While there have been some Japanese cartoons on American television since the early 1960's, like Astro Boy, Speed Racer and Star Blazers, the recent popularity of anime results from video, which has allowed Japan's prolific studios to reach viewers directly.
 NUMEROUS American colleges have anime clubs, and there are conventions for American fans. But the place fanatics really meet is on the Internet computer network. For instance, Hitoshi Doi's Anime Page (http:// www.tcp.com/doi/anime2.html) offers synopses of almost every episode of many cartoon series.
On television, too, there is a new interest in Japanese cartoons, generated by the phenomenal success of the Japanese-derived "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers." The show, while not actually a cartoon, is very cartoonlike.
Last Monday, a half-hour cartoon show called "Sailor Moon" made its debut on American television (in New York on Channel 11 at 6:30 A.M., Mondays through Fridays). It is about a clumsy crybaby of a junior high school girl who is transformed into a leggy superheroine. The program has been a hit in France. In Japan, it has set off a merchandising mania of dolls, scepters and other paraphernalia far in excess of anything generated here by the Power Rangers.
Japanese comics, known as manga, are also appearing in English in the United States. Studio Proteus, a San Francisco manga importer and translator, reports that the most popular include "Oh My Goddess," about a college student living with three goddesses, and "Domu (A Child's Dream)," about psychic warfare between an evil man and a young girl.
To be sure, Mickey Mouse need not start quaking in his shoes just yet. Disney can sell more than 20 million videotapes of one of its hit movies. With anime, "to sell 20,000 makes it a best seller," said John O'Donnell, managing director of Central Park Media, a New York-based anime distributor.
The spread of Japanese cartoons and comics is not always welcome. Critics say they contain too much sex and violence or are crassly aimed at selling toys. Many featured shapely yet innocent-looking teen-age girls, the object of many Japanese men's fantasies. In Spain, some Japanese cartoons were taken off the air after protests about their violence. Central Park Media voluntarily rates its videos.
In Japan, the police occasionally report crimes that were influenced by comics and cartoons, and some comics cannot be sold to minors. But the overall crime rate here is extremely low, so there has not been that much protest. Still, even Japan has its limits. A manga called "Rape Man," featuring a hero who commits rape for hire, was discontinued after protests from women's groups.
One reason Japanese comics and animation get away with sex and violence is that they are not just for children. Some of the same blue-suited businessmen who have made Japan into an economic superpower commute to work on the subways reading comic books, some as thick as telephone books and many sexually explicit.
Comics are a mainstream form of communication here, sold in most bookstores and dealing with more than superheroes. Just how fertile a genre it is can be seen by visiting Comic Station Shibuya, a manga specialty store in Tokyo that contains 120,000 comic books and magazines, almost all wrapped in cellophane to keep them clean and prevent reading without paying.
Among the store's recent best sellers are "Mind Assassin," about a psychiatrist who uses ESP to cure people, and "Gallery Fake," about a dealer in fake antiques. Popular among women are manga featuring love and sex between homosexual men.
The most successful manga artists, like Rumiko Takahashi, can become fabulously wealthy. Some publish their first drawings as teen-agers and, despite their tender age, are referred to as "sensei," meaning "master" or "teacher."
The productive comic industry provides the grist for most animations. If comics fulfill part of the role played by novels in the United States, animation is the counterpart of American movies. Young animators here say they are influenced by movies like "Blade Runner" and "Terminator 2" more than by American cartoons.
Japan's anemic movie industry could not keep up with Hollywood's big-budget special-effects films, said Masahiro Haraguchi, a contributing editor of Animage magazine. "So they increasingly turned to animation, where anything is possible," he said.
Admirers say the stories in manga and anime are more complex than in American comics and cartoons. In Japan, superheroes have frailties and major characters can die.
Technology is a big theme, portrayed both positively and negatively. Life after a nuclear holocaust is a common theme, as exemplified by Katsuhiro Otomo's cyberpunk "Akira," probably the best known anime outside Japan.
The scenery in anime sometimes looks as realistic as a photograph, exhibiting the kind of attention to detail found in other Japanese arts like flower arranging. The exception to the realism is in the characters' faces, with their oversize eyes. In American cartoons, facial expressions and mouth movements are fluid. In Japan, partly to save money, there is less focus on faces, resulting in jerkier movements.
"I've seen shots where you look at a glass with ice cubes while the two characters talk," said Lenord Robinson, director of animation for Warner Brothers. "But we in the U.S. are in a hurry to get to the action."
Japan has had a long tradition of drawing pictures. Wood block prints, now considered fine art, were actually used for storytelling several hundred years ago. But the modern form of comics and animation was created in the two decades after World War II by Osamu Tezuka, who is known as the Walt Disney of Japan. Mr. Tezuka pioneered novel-like stories in manga and created Astro Boy, among other characters.
Mr. Tezuka, who died in 1989, is so revered here that a museum was built in his honor. More than 40 Japanese cartoonists signed a letter of protest to Disney last year complaining that "The Lion King" seemed to borrow from Tezuka's "Jungle Emperor," which was shown on American television in 1966 as "Kimba, the White Lion."
In both stories the father lion is killed and the son is sent into exile and later returns to recapture the throne. In both stories the lion prince is aided by a wise baboon and a talkative bird while the evil lion has hyenas as henchmen. But Disney defended its work as original. And Tezuka Production, the company that controls the rights to the late author's works, said Mr. Tezuka was an avid Disney fan who would have been flattered if his work had inspired "The Lion King."
 THE NEW KINGS OF JAPANESE animation are Mr. Miyazaki and his 100-employee company, Studio Ghibli. "If you had a Top 10 list, they would fill all the slots," said Emiko Okada, an animation critic.
The son of an aviation company executive, Mr. Miyazaki started his career at Toei Animation, but chafed at life in the big company. He left for a smaller company and then, in 1985, founded Ghibli.
His movies are often simple and heartwarming. His latest movie, "Whisper of the Heart," is a love story about a bookwormish teen-age girl and a boy who wants to be a violin maker. "I don't want to depict the world as someplace not worth living in," Mr. Miyazaki said.
At 54, with graying hair, he criticizes most other Japanese animations as being technically poor or too commercial. He also says that Disney has strayed from its formerly pure stories. "When I look at 'Beauty and the Beast,' it reminds me of a psychiatric patient and his counselor," he said.
By the same token, however, some people say that Mr. Miyazaki's stories lack a certain grittiness found in other animations. "His worlds have become just too nostalgic," said Mamoru Oshii, 44, who is considered a leader of the next generation of animators. His best-known work is "Patlabor," about a robot police force in the future.
Despite what looks like the animation industry's vibrant success, there are signs of trouble. A recent edition of Comic Box, a magazine about the manga business, featured the headline "Manga Is Dead?" Many animations are made on a shoestring budget, and underpaid animators are defecting to the more lucrative video-game industry.
One solution is financing from abroad. Mr. Oshii's newest production, "Ghost in the Shell," is receiving money from Manga Entertainment, a distributor of manga and anime, and will be released simultaneously in English and Japanese late this year.
One can only guess what it is about. The advertising poster shows a naked, gun-toting woman with wires attached to her. "People love machines in 2029 A.D.," the poster says. "Who are you? Who slips into my robot body and whispers to my ghost?"
One thing is clear. Even if the manga and anime industries are slowing down, there is a huge reservoir of material still to be exploited overseas. The invasion of the giant robots, sex-crazed demons and voluptuous yet vulnerable co-eds is just beginning.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); VIET NAM (76%); SPAIN (66%); FRANCE (56%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (89%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (58%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); VIET NAM (76%); SPAIN (66%); FRANCE (56%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (89%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ANIMATED FILMS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ANIMATION (93%); ANIMATED FILMS (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); MARTIAL ARTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); 

PERSON: MIYAZAKI, HAYAO; OSHII, MAMORU; POLLACK, ANDREW WALTER ELIAS 'WALT' DISNEY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



345 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Budapest

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; JANE PERLEZ is the chief of the Warsaw bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
As residents of the capital stream back into Budapest after the long summer break at Lake Balaton and elsewhere in the countryside, their mood is likely to be cheerful, despite the fact that the Hungarian economy is in the doldrums.
Fall is irresistibly pleasurable in Budapest, with the trees on the hills above the Danube matching the russet and yellow ornamental tiles of cathedrals and churches. 
 And six years after the end of Communist rule, the city looks increasingly prosperous. Visitors might be taken aback by the blaze of billboards advertising fast food and cellular phones. In fact, you see more of the latter in Budapest than in New York. Mobile phones are everywhere: on the streets, in restaurants, at the swimming pools, and in buses.
Mayor Gabor Demszky, one of the few former dissidents who still holds office in Central Europe, has found the money to scrub some of the spectacular public buildings. A fine example is Liberty Square, on the Pest side of the Danube, where the recently cleaned Art Nouveau National Bank and the headquarters of the national television network, once the biggest stock exchange in Central Europe, face each other across a small green park. Unfortunately, most of the heavily ornamented pre-World War II apartment blocks remain blackened by decades of soot, their tenants or new owners unable to afford restoration. Many of these buildings are still pockmarked with bullet holes from the fighting at the end of the war and from the 1956 uprising.
More and more cars cram the city, but a plan for stiff parking fines, not yet introduced, is designed to cut back on traffic and therefore help reduce the city's level of smog (Mayor Demszky is an environmentalist). Visitors certainly do not need a car. Budapest is a great walking city, particularly on the Pest side of the river, where broad boulevards are lined with roomy sidewalks. And the subway system, undergoing renovation but still functioning, is one of the oldest in Europe but is efficient, clean and cheap.
 
Events
 This fall marks the 50th anniversary of the death in New York of Bela Bartok, who along with Franz Liszt is probably Hungary's best-known composer. In honor of the occasion, the Budapest Autumn Festival will present a week of Bartok's music starting Sept. 25. The opening concert at the Liszt Music Academy, 8 Franz Liszt Ter, will feature the Hungarian State Orchestra performing "Hungarian Sketches," "Cantata Profana," "Two Portraits" and "The Miraculous Mandarin." Tickets are $2.20 and $11, calculated at 135 forints to the dollar. For tickets, call 3420179, fax 1187290.
During the week, the Bartok String Quartet will give a concert at Bartok's home, now a museum, at 29 Csalan Utca, nightly at 7. Call or fax 1764472. Tickets are $7.40. On Sept. 28 the Budapest Philharmonic Orchestra will play Bartok works at the State Opera House, 22 Andrassy Ut, with the soprano Eva Marton as soloist.
The opera season opens in September and this fall includes performances by the Hungarian Opera Company of the Wagner "Ring" cycle, "La Boheme" by Puccini and "L'Elisir d'Amore" by Donizetti. The Hungarian Opera Ballet also performs at the Opera House, 22 Andrassy Ut, a renovated late 19th-century building with new lighting and improved acoustics. Most performances start at 7 P.M. For tickets to opera house performances, call 1327914, fax 1119017.
The recently remodeled neo-Baroque Vigszinhaz Theater, 14 Szent Istvan Korut, where Ferenc Molnar's plays were first performed, reopens for its new season in September. It will continue to stage the hit "Ossztanc" ("Let's Dance Together"), a production of mime, dance, music, convenient for visitors who do not speak Hungarian) no dialogue. This is a peppy performance designed for the local audience. But for those who have a glimmer of understanding of Hungarian events in the last 60 years, it is easily comprehensible and for the most part very amusing. The action moves through the Depression, the Holocaust, the end of World War II, the Stalinist years, the 1956 uprising, goulash Communism, to the present yuppie era. Performances at 7 P.M. Tickets 90 cents to $4.45, phone and fax 2693922.
 
 
Sightseeing
 Some of the most revealing exhibits about the nation's culture and history are in the Ethnographic Museum on Kossuth Lajos Ter. The building, a fine example of the late 19th-century construction boom that transformed Budapest from a town into a significant European capital, is opposite the neo-Gothic Parliament house along the Pest side of the Danube. Opened in 1896 to house the nation's Supreme Court, the museum building's lobby is a breathtaking concoction of marble pillars, gilt trim and a ceiling fresco. It housed the court until World War II; after the war, the Communists turned it into a museum, first for workers' propaganda and then for the national art collection.
Since the 1970's, the permanent exhibition has dealt with Hungarian folk life, a display that contrasts sharply with the grandiosity of the setting. There is an extensive collection of the artifacts of rural life: painted furniture, farm implements, clothes, domestic utensils, ceramics and peasant costumes from different eras. Unlike many museums in Central Europe, accompanying texts are in English. Admission 75 cents. Open 10 A.M. to 5:40 P.M.; closed Monday. Telephone 112 4878.
During restoration two years ago of the Jewish Museum, 20 Dohany Utca, much of its spectacular collection of Judaica that traces the 300-year history of the Jews in Hungary was stolen. Nearly all of the pieces were recovered, however -- in a village in Romania -- and are on display, protected by a new security system. The exhibit includes elaborate seder plates by the porcelain maker Herend, liturgical pieces used in synagogue services and ritual objects for home celebrations. Open Monday and Thursday 2 to 6 P.M.; Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday 10 A.M. to 1 P.M. Closed Saturday. Call 342 8949. Admission: 75 cents
Adjoining the museum is the Great Synagogue. Built in the 1850's for a congregation of 3,000, it is one of the largest Jewish places of worship in Europe. With its copper-topped cupolas shining again and scaffolding being removed after two years of renovation, the synagogue is due to have its ceremonial reopening next May, although it has been in use for prayer during construction.
A favorite of local residents, the Museum of Applied Arts, with its soaring, intricately tiled roof, is a fine example of Art Nouveau. The collection emphasizes the urban life of the haute bourgeoisie in Budapest, particularly innovative furniture from the 1920's and 30's. The museum, 217 5222, at 33-37 Ulloi Ut, is open Tuesday to Sunday, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission 45 cents, 15 cents for children, Tuesday free.
 
Where to Stay
 Budapest hotel prices have increased steeply since the fall of Communism, due mainly to inflation of over 20 percent a year. At many hotels, rates drop in November and rise in March. But at some luxury hotels rates go up in November.
The modern, 139-room Hotel Liget, 106 Dozsa Gyorgy Ut; (36 1) 269 5300, fax 269 5329, is conveniently situated near Heroes Square on the Pest side. A double is $159 to Nov. 1, $91 after that.
The small, refurbished Hotel Opera, 1065 Revay Ut 24; (36 1) 269 0222, fax (36 1) 269 0230, has 115 rooms well located off Andrassy Utca near the opera house. Service is friendly, and the staff speaks good English. A double is $215 until November; after Nov. 1, $180.
At the Ramada Grand Hotel on Margaret Island, (36 1) 132 1100; fax (36 1) 153 30129, the rooms are done in basic hotel style. But the setting -- in a park in the middle of the Danube -- affords a feeling of serenity. Doubles $210 to April 1.
Budget: Located on the Buda side of the river northwest of the city's center, the contemporary Beatrix Pension, 3 Szeher Utca, telephone and fax (36 1) 176 3730, is in a modern building in the second district, one of the city's best residential neighborhoods. Each of the 12 rooms has a telephone and shower, and it is a short walk to the bus to the center of Buda, a 10- to 15-minute ride. Doubles: $71 through October, and $56 from November to March 31.
Luxury: Before World War II, the Gellert, 1 Szent Gellert Ter, (36 1) 185 2200, fax 166 6631, was the place where prosperous local people kept apartments. Now faded, the 233-room hotel retains a certain charm and is still the city's prime thermal spa. Doubles $198.
The 369-room Hotel Kempinski, 7-8 Erzsebet Ter, (36 1) 266 1000, fax 266 2000, is one of the most luxurious hotels in Central Europe. Service is impeccable, and the elegantly furnished, good-sized rooms have excellent bathrooms. Doubles $305 to Nov. 15; $163 after that.
 
 
Where to Eat
 Most nights, the classic Hungarian food at Gundel, the eponymous restaurant opened by Hungary's best-known chef in 1894 and restored by the New York restaurateur George Lang, is excellent. Sometimes, the kitchen, groaning under the pressure of its own popularity, can disappoint. The menu at the 160-seat main restaurant includes hot smoked sliced goose liver with onion-fried potatoes and crab a la Gundel stuffed with walnuts. Dinner for two with a Hungarian wine from the Tokai region, about $80. Handsomely furnished in Art Nouveau style, with 19th-century Hungarian paintings, the dining room is enlivened by a gypsy orchestra. 2 Allatkerti Ut; 321 3550.
Kispipa, 38 Akacfa Ut, 342 2587, is a casual, sometimes noisy place that was a hangout for the 1980's dissident and media crowd. The huge menu includes tripe, goose and fish soup. Dinner for two with an inexpensive Hungarian wine, about $30.
Cyrano, 7-8 Kristof Ter, 266 3096, fashionably decorated with wrought iron and low lighting, opened in fall, 1993. The European menu includes smoked trout with pears, paella and a pancake stuffed with vegetables. Dinner for two with good Hungarian wine about $50.
Remiz 5 Budakeszi Ut, 176 1896, is a bistro with a garden where meals are served into October. Grilled specialties include chicken and spare ribs. $30 for two with wine.
Not much more than a hole-in-the-wall in the city center, the pub-style Bohemtanya, 6 Paulay Ede Utca, 322 1453, serves huge helpings of basic Hungarian dishes -- pig's knuckle, paprika chicken -- with planks of bread. About $15 for two.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lobby of the Ethnographic Museum is an elaborate concoction of marble pillars, gilt trim and a ceiling fresco.; Statue on newly cleaned facade of National Bank.; Sculptural group from doorway of Hungarian television network.; Detail from Liszt Music Academy, Franz Liszt Ter. (Photographs by Andras Bankuti for The New York Times)
 
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Budapest. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Hungarian Tourist Board, Times Books World WeatherGuide)
 
Map of Budapest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL-BANK AG (55%); NATIONAL BANK LIFE INSURANCE CO (55%); NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT (55%); NATIONAL BANK SECURITIES INC (55%); NATIONAL BANK FINANCIAL (55%); NATIONAL BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL & TOURISTIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST (HUNGARY); HUNGARY; HUNGARY (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (95%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (87%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (85%); MUSIC (84%); LAKES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); PARKING OFFENSES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); RELIGION (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); WORLD WAR II (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); FESTIVALS (66%); SMOG (64%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (60%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (60%); STOCK EXCHANGES (52%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE BELA BARTOK (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



346 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Cuba's Drive for Tourists Stirs Neighbors to Action

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
AFTER years of deliberately ignoring tourism for ideological reasons, Cuba, which before the revolution led by Fidel Castro was the most popular destination in the Caribbean, has accelerated its efforts to attract foreign visitors and their hard currency. The campaign has been so successful that Cuba's neighbors are having to devise new strategies to meet the growing Cuban challenge.
More than 600,000 tourists, most of them Europeans, Canadians or Latin Americans, visited Cuba in 1994, up from just over 300,000 in 1988, the year before the Soviet bloc collapsed. Lured by a marketing blitz and offers of cheap package tours and charter flights, more than 100,000 Canadians went to Cuba last year. At the same time, Canadian tourism to Miami was falling by nearly a third in 1994, in part because of concerns about crimes against tourists and the weakness of the Canadian dollar. 
 "Cuba has been aggressively buying billboards and other kinds of advertising in Canadian cities, and we have certainly seen the impact here," said Mayco Villafana, a spokesman for the Greater Miami Convention and Visitors' Bureau. "We believe Cuban tourism will continue to increase and that in some other markets, such as Germany, they will be direct competition with Florida and Miami."
Recent statements by government and tourism industry officials in Jamaica, Puerto Rico, Mexico, the Dominican Republic and the Bahamas indicate that they too are closely monitoring Cuba's return to large-scale tourism. Luis Fortuno, executive director of Puerto Rico's tourist agency, said in an interview that for the moment, Cuba did not pose much of a threat to Puerto Rico because "we get most of our business from the U.S. mainland, and Cuba is currently barred to U.S. travelers" as the result of a 34-year-old economic embargo, one provision of which prohibits American citizens from spending money in Cuba.
But in testimony to the Puerto Rican Senate, Mr. Fortuno also warned that "in the medium to long term," the resurgence of the Cuban tourist industry creates "the possibility of a disastrous impact here as well as in the rest of the Caribbean." At recent meetings of Caribbean nations, officials from some 30 countries have noted that Cuba was in a construction drive that would double the number of hotel rooms and was receiving an increasing number of charters from Germany, Italy and Spain.
"Obviously Cuba is a competitor and will continue to be one as it takes in more business," said Jean Holder, president of the Caribbean Tourist Organization, which held a convention in Havana this year for the first time in more than 30 years. "Their basic infrastructure for tourism is very good." Mr. Castro has scoffed at the notion that Cuba "poses a terrible threat" to the region, telling his fellow heads of state at a conference last month that "we don't want to compete, we want to cooperate."
Of the 13 million tourists who visit the Caribbean each year, more than half are Americans. But the number of European and Latin American visitors to the region is growing rapidly, and tourist officials maintain that Cuba's ability to market itself as a new, unspoiled and exotic destination offers a powerful appeal to the same kind of adventurous, experienced traveler who traveled to China when tourism first resumed there.
As a result, some of Cuba's rivals are trying to develop joint programs with Havana. Jamaica, for instance, has begun air and sea service to Santiago, at the eastern end of the island, and introduced "dual destination" packages that have been popular among European visitors. In addition, a Jamaican company, the Superclubs group, recently opened a hotel in the beach resort of Varadero and is building another.
Jamaica's Minister of Tourism, John Junor, explained: "For the European or Japanese visitor coming to the Caribbean for three or four weeks, the opportunity to visit two countries with very distinct cultures and languages is a very attractive prospect. Cuba is a very large island that has its own charms and advantages, and we don't take the view that we should have it all. We just want our fair share."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); CANADA (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); MEXICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); SPAIN (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN AREA; CUBA; CUBA (99%); CANADA (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); MEXICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); SPAIN (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); LODGING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY FIDEL CASTRO (78%); LUIS G FORTUNO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



347 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 6; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Q. & A.

 BODY:

Brokers Preparing Contracts
 Q When real estate brokers prepare contracts of sale for residential transactions, aren't they engaging in the unauthorized practice of law? . . . Lilian Marquez, Manhattan. 
 A William A. Colavito, a Manhattan lawyer who is chairman of the Real Property Law Section of the New York State Bar Association, said that the issue of whether the preparation of real estate contracts by brokers constitutes the unauthorized practice of law is of ongoing concern to lawyers and real estate brokers alike.
And recently, Mr. Colavito said, the office of the New York Secretary of State issued an opinion letter regarding the matter.
The opinion states that in general, real estate brokers who are not licensed to practice law in the State of New York are prohibited from rendering legal advice.
According to the opinion, Mr. Colavito said, any real estate contract provided or prepared by a broker must either contain a provision making the contract subject to a lawyer's approval or be on a form approved by a joint committee of the bar association and realtors association in the county in which the broker operates.
"In addition," Mr. Colavito said, "the contract should contain a bold-face caveat directed to the contracting parties indicating that the document is a legal contract and recommending that they consult with their respective attorneys before signing."
 
Rent Stabilization And Rent Control
 Q What is the difference between rent control and rent stabilization? . . . Jerald Seif, Yonkers.
 A The differences are best illustrated by describing when and how each is applied.
According to an information fact sheet provided by the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, rent control applies to residential buildings constructed before February 1947 in municipalities that have not yet declared an end to the postwar rental housing emergency. New York City, Albany and Buffalo are three of 51 such municipalities.
For an apartment to be under rent control, the tenant must have been living there continuously since before July 1, 1971. When a tenant moves from a rent-controlled apartment, the apartment usually becomes rent stabilized.
Rent control limits the rent an owner may charge for an apartment and places restrictions on the right of an owner to evict a tenant. In New York City, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal sets the Maximum Base Rent for each apartment and then adjusts that amount every two years to reflect changes in operating costs.
Subject to challenges by tenants, owners who certify that they are providing essential services and have no existing violations in their buildings can usually raise rents by 7.5 percent each year until they reach the Maximum Base Rent.
Rent stabilization, on the other hand, generally applies to apartments in buildings of six or more units built between Feb. 1, 1947, and Jan. 1, 1974, and to tenants who moved into rent-controlled apartments after June 30, 1971.
Also covered under rent stabilization are apartments in buildings that have three or more units that have been constructed or extensively renovated since 1974 with special tax benefits.
Like rent control, rent stabilization provides protection against eviction to tenants and gives tenants the right to essential services. Moreover, it gives the tenant the option to renew his or her lease for either a a one- or two-year term.
In New York City, the local Rent Guidelines Board sets maximum rates for rent increases once a year. Such increases are effective for leases beginning on or after Oct. 1 of each year.
Under both rent control and rent stabilization, other increases are sometimes allowed for major capital improvements, hardship, increased labor costs and fuel passalongs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (58%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (58%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (92%); LAWYERS (91%); RENT CONTROL (91%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGAL ETHICS (78%); PROPERTY LAW (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EVICTION (65%); 

PERSON: A WILLIAM A COLAVITO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



348 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Ravitch, Mayor's Choice to Run Schools, Has Extensive Public Record

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
Ever since Richard Ravitch emerged as Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's first choice to become New York City's Schools Chancellor last week, many of his friends have been calling to deliver a simple message: Don't take the job. You can't possibly succeed.
Despite Mr. Ravitch's rough-and-tumble public career -- he has directed the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and stood at the front lines in the Major League Baseball strike -- the schools, his friends are saying, may be one institution whose problems are too intractable to fix. 
 "We've had some very qualified educators go through there," said Irving R. Fischer, an associate who has worked with Mr. Ravitch on various real estate projects for the last 35 years, "and even they haven't gotten it to work."
Ultimately, it is the members of the Board of Education who will fill the top post in the nation's largest school system, choosing Mr. Ravitch or one of nine other finalists to replace Ramon C. Cortines, who is leaving next month. But that has hardly stopped the Mayor from trying to direct the process. Last week he was stoking Mr. Ravitch's almost mythic reputation for repairing any public institution he has touched.
"Richard Ravitch," the Mayor said, "is a very, very exceptionally well-qualified person to run almost anything."
Mr. Ravitch, 62, has an impressive track record tackling public problems. As chairman of the M.T.A. in the early 80's, he extracted billions of dollars from state and Federal officials for repairs on the crumbling city subway system. Earlier, as chairman of the State Urban Development Corporation, he turned a nearly bankrupt organization into a healthier engine for economic growth. Later, at the behest of Mayor Edward I. Koch, he oversaw the commission that rewrote the city's charter after the Board of Estimate was declared unconstitutional.
"He is unique in his capacity to come up with creative fiscal solutions," said Meyer S. Frucher, the chief labor negotiator for Governor Hugh L. Carey, who appointed Mr. Ravitch to the M.T.A. "He is a superb fiscal engineer."
Others, however, say Mr. Ravitch does not have the experience of managing, on a daily basis, a sprawling organization like the school system, in which one million students and 65,000 teachers are crammed into 1,000 buildings. Some people caution that he has a strong independent streak and may be unwilling to kowtow to the Mayor, who has demanded that the next chancellor surrender control of the schools' spending and security to him. Many people recall Mr. Ravitch's last quasi-public role, as the chief labor negotiator for Major League Baseball owners, who bore at least some responsibility for the strike that canceled last year's World Series.
"He has a way of doing things that may have worked for him in other industries and contexts, but it didn't work here," said an official on the players' side of the baseball talks, who insisted on anonymity. "It was like, 'Let me deal with the big picture. Let me find someone on the other side who I can take into the proverbial back room and make a deal with.' "
Most distressing of all, state and city school officials say, is that Mr. Ravitch's hands-on experience in elementary and secondary education is almost nonexistent, limited to a brief stint as chairman of the board of the Dalton School, the elite private academy on the Upper East Side that his two sons attended in the 1970's.
"That is a severe limitation," Mr. Koch said. "This is not a bank. We are dealing with children and their lives."
The seven members of the board, two appointed by the Mayor and five appointed by the borough presidents, have not offered the job to Mr. Ravitch, nor is it clear that they will. So far he has refused to comment publicly on whether he is interested in the post, although friends say he is weighing it seriously.
"I don't think he has made up his mind," Mr. Fischer said.
But with city and school officials describing Mr. Ravitch as the Mayor's top choice for the job, he has been the subject of more scrutiny and discussion than any of the other candidates.
The best-known achievement in Mr. Ravitch's public career is his tenure as chairman of the M.T.A., a post he held from 1979 to 1983. Mr. Ravitch focused on persuading politicians, businesses and riders that the subway system was falling apart and desperately needed a long-term injection of cash. He left management of the daily operations of the city's subways to others; a suggestion, for some, of how he might manage the schools.
Mr. Ravitch shuttled between Albany, New York City and Washington and put together a five-year, $8.5 billion capital plan that bore fruit long after his departure, in the form of new subways cars, track repairs and station renovations. Among his innovations was using fare-box revenue to secure bonds, and persuading private companies to buy buses from the M.T.A., then lease them back at a savings to the authority, a transaction that provided tax benefits to the companies.
Alair A. Townsend, Mr. Koch's budget director, said, "He put the argument in a compelling way about what the transit system means to New York and that it was at some considerable, grave risk."
The 11-day subway strike in 1980 occurred during Mr. Ravitch's tenure, a dispute Mr. Koch continues to believe Mr. Ravitch settled by being too generous to the Transport Workers Union.
Mr. Ravitch, who has amassed considerable wealth as a builder and developer, next worked at the Charter Revision Commission, where he won praise for the politically tricky work of redrawing the city into 51 Council districts. He left the commission to run for mayor in the 1989 Democratic primary, but won only 4 percent of the vote.
Sports fans may know Mr. Ravitch best for his ill-fated role in the longest baseball strike in history.
Mr. Ravitch served from 1991 until last December as the owners' chief labor executive and was credited with bringing the teams together on a revenue-sharing plan, in which richer teams like the Yankees would help poorer teams like the Pittsburgh Pirates. But by basing that plan on a salary cap, he earned the enmity of the players and was never able to forge a new collective bargaining agreement with them.
 While the union blames Mr. Ravitch, in part, for bringing on the strike in summer 1994, David W. Sussman, the executive vice president and general counsel of the Yankees, believes he was cast unfairly as a scapegoat. Nevertheless, soon after the strike began, the owners eased Mr. Ravitch out of his lead role at the bargaining table. He resigned in December.
When, six months later, Mr. Cortines announced he was leaving as Schools Chancellor, the only Ravitch who was thought to be a contender was Mr. Ravitch's former wife, Diane S. Ravitch, a former assistant secretary at the Department of Education in Washington. Uninterested in the job, she said she first thought it strange when her former husband's name surfaced several weeks ago, since he is not an educator. Since then, however, she has warmed to the idea, countering the chorus of advisers urging him not to take the job if asked.
"I think he would be good at working with the Legislature, the Governor's office, the Mayor's office and the City Council to do two things that need to be done," she said. "One is to fix what I believe to be a broken governance system, which is 100 years old. Two is to get the city a fair shake from the Legislature when it comes to getting school aid."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 1995, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about Richard Ravitch, then a candidate for New York City Schools Chancellor, misstated his role in the revision of the city charter. Mr. Ravitch led the Charter Revision Commission from 1986 to 1988, but he did not supervise the redrawing of the Council district boundaries. That work was done by the New York City Districting Commission, led by Frank J. Macchiarola.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many of Richard Ravitch's friends urge him to reject the chancellor job and its intractable problems. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); BASEBALL (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (50%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES; RAVITCH, RICHARD; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



349 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly/Queens

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Beyond the Waterfront, and Into the Water

BYLINE: By TOM SAWYER

 BODY:
MIKE DAVIS knows exactly why he likes rowing.
"The thing is," says Mr. Davis, a 53-year-old archeologist, "you're in a completely different element. You are far from all the hard edges. Out there you're dealing with wind and current and an occasional thunderstorm. Out there you're in nature's realm, and you don't quibble with the rules. You don't get a lawyer to get you out of it." 
 Debates over how to, or whether, to revitalize the city's waterfront have been going on for years; meanwhile, quietly, Mr. Davis and a handful of other New Yorkers are way past the waterfront, heading right into the Hudson, Harlem and East Rivers by canoe, kayak and rowboat. Mr. Davis has spent years in the East, and two years ago helped found a nonprofit boating group, Floating the Apple, which builds long wooden rowboats from a former bank lobby in the McGraw Hill building on West 42d Street. "One of the great pleasures of being in Istanbul is rowing on the Bosporus, between Asia and Europe," he said. "Istanbul was built to be seen from the river. Here nothing was built to be seen from the river, except perhaps lower Manhattan."
Activity on the water is on the rise nationally, boat makers say. Canoes, kayaks and rowboats are built around the country by companies like Perception Inc., based in Easley, S.C. With 600 dealers nationwide, it reports a 20 percent growth for each of the last three years. "That's hearty growth," said Dana Jones, the company's marketing coordinator.
New York City got into the act in 1993, when the Department of Parks and Recreation established launch sites and began issuing permits for canoes and kayaks. A total of 34 permits were issued for this year's season, May 29 to Nov. 26, up from 24 last year. The city's intent is to make sure people using small boats know how to pursue their sport safely. "Barges can't stop, and big ships can't stop," Mr. Davis points out. "So you stay out of the way, the same way you stay out of the way of trucks on the street. They're unforgiving."
To row, Mr. Davis and a crew roll their 300-pound boats on a hand-pulled cart three long blocks from the McGraw Hill building to the river, and load them onto a homemade derrick on Pier 84 to swing them onto the water. "I've gone into my I.R.A.'s," Mr. Davis said. "I've got three credit cards that are a disaster area, but this has been worth doing."
In lower Manhattan, another group, the Downtown Boathouse, has a small cinder-block building on the apron of Pier 26, which juts into the Hudson just north of North Moore Street. Inside are the sleek hulls of 35 light-weight rowing or paddling craft in what amounts to a people-size version of the Kerbs Model Boathouse in Central Park. The 50 or so club members, whose fees are $250 a year, carry their boats to the edge of the pier and, depending on the tide, hand them down the three- to nine-foot drop to the water and board from a floating dock.
"We're still in the beginning stages," says Jim Wetteroff, a heating contractor who is club president. "We are in business and we do have a dock and we are getting people into the water."
Other rowers can be found at the 79th Street Boat Basin, where there are weekend launchings from a floating dock; people come carrying little boats from the stony bowels of their Upper West Side apartment buildings. The attraction of the rivers, however few feel it, is clearly there.
"It's our largest open space," Mr. Davis says succinctly. "It's a shame not to use it better."


GRAPHIC: Here are some of the groups that regularly row and paddle on New York City's rivers.
Chart/Map: "RIVER RUN: The Urban Paddler"
Floating the Apple, 330 West 42d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, (212) 564-5412
The Downtown Boathouse, 241 West Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10013, (212) 966-1852
Inwood Canoe and Kayak Club, (718) 409-9672
The city Department of Parks and Recreation, (212) 360-8131, issues permits for canoes and kayaks, for $2. That allows boaters to use sanctioned launch sites shown on map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (90%); EUROPE (70%); ASIA (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (90%); EUROPE (70%); ASIA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BOATING & RAFTING (90%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (88%); MARINE VESSELS (88%); RIVERS (74%); BOAT BUILDING (74%); ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: MIKE DAVIS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1995



350 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 23; Column 5; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Passions

BYLINE: By Eugene Kennedy; Eugene Kennedy is a professor emeritus of psychology at Loyola University of Chicago.

 BODY:

EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE
By Daniel Goleman.
352 pp. New York:
Bantam Books.
$23.95. 
 PERHAPS presaging the naive confidence of the Gail Sheehy era, Zelda Fitzgerald claimed to be a real American because she believed you could learn to play the piano by mail. Such optimism about remaking the self, based on everything from the New Testament to the New Age, may explain the booming condition of the nation's bookstores; there is nothing more American, except perhaps buying into Ponzi schemes and donning lodge costumes, than treating life as a multipart but curable illness.
Daniel Goleman may then be accused of doing something unpatriotic, or at least countercultural, in "Emotional Intelligence": he refuses to oversimplify our emotional lives or to provide painless ways to manage them. Respecting the complex unity of personality, he asks what accounts for "the disintegration of civility and safety" in our daily lives, and, more to the point: "What can we change that will help our children fare better in life?" His answer: turn to the schools to teach "self-control, zeal and persistence, and the ability to motivate oneself" -- in other words, the abilities he calls "emotional intelligence."
Mr. Goleman builds his argument deliberately, beginning with a masterly overview of recent research in psychology and neuroscience. Having reported on such matters for The New York Times for the last decade, he is a teacher at ease with his subject. Without distracting himself, he glances up from his notes to make lively connections between the wealth of new understandings and the riches of older wisdom about our affective lives.
Mr. Goleman realizes that humans prefer to think of their personalities as plated with the gold of rationality rather than what they regard as the base metal of the emotions. At another level, they know better. We all gritted our teeth, for example, when Lyndon Johnson crinkled his eyes and quoted Isaiah: "Come now, let us reason together." We knew that he was about to abandon reason and to apply a tight-as-a-tourniquet emotional hold on others until, choking and red-faced, they agreed with him.
Poorly understood and badly monitored emotions are, Mr. Goleman suggests, a national problem, interfering with every aspect of our intimate and public lives. In a supposedly therapeutic age, people chant the mantras "I hear a lot of anger" or "I feel your pain," but they will not be comforted. Recognizing our highly combustible national bad mood, Mr. Goleman identifies his governing insight with that of Aristotle in "The Nicomachean Ethics": "Anyone can become angry -- that is easy. But to be angry with the right person, to the right degree, at the right time, for the right purpose and in the right way -- this is not easy."
Mr. Goleman believes we can cultivate emotional intelligence, and improve not only the I.Q.'s but the general life performances of the many children who now suffer because of our society's unbalanced emphasis on the intellectual at the expense of the affective dimension of personality. In his final section, he offers a plan for schooling to restore our badly neglected "emotional literacy." Proposing far greater attention to classes in "social development," "life skills" and "social and emotional learning," he singles out the Self Science curriculum, which began at the Nueva Learning Center, a small private school in San Francisco. To skeptics who, he acknowledges, will "understandably" ask whether emotional intelligence can be taught in a less privileged setting, he offers a visit to the Augusta Lewis Troup Middle School in New Haven. And for overburdened teachers who may resist adding another class, he suggests working "lessons on feelings and relationships" in with "other topics already taught."
SOME readers will consider the concept of "emotional intelligence" as little different from traditional understandings of emotional adulthood and observe that Mr. Goleman scants powerful formative influences like mature religious faith. Others may argue that his vision of a school-based cure for a problem that begins at home adds unrealistic burdens to already stumbling systems. Nonetheless, Mr. Goleman, with an economy of style that serves his reformer's convictions well, integrates a vast amount of material on issues whose intricacy and problematic character he reveals in an original and persuasive way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); ETHICS (75%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (73%); LITERATURE (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (70%); BOOKSTORES (58%); PONZI SCHEMES (56%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, EUGENE; GOLEMAN, DANIEL DANIEL GOLEMAN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



351 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 2; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: Long Island Q&A: Stephen Davies;
Finding a Gold Lining as a Result of Some Computer Failures

BYLINE: By SUSAN KONIG 

 BODY:
WHAT should be done if a storm, power failure, fire or flood knocks out all the computer terminals at work? Stephen Davies has built a successful business pondering questions like that.
Mr. Davies is president of the U.S. Computer Group in Farmingdale, a company that provides computer maintenance, products and solutions in the New York metropolitan region. Mr. Davies founded U.S. Computer, he said, because he thought a small independent company could provide better repair service at lower costs than the computer manufacturers. 
 The company also provides recovery and all the other services needed to keep businesses up and running in disasters, including 90 emergency computer stations in Manhattan and on Long Island. The company has 187 employees.
Acquiring five companies in the last three years has helped make U.S. Computer a top regional service provider. Revenues have risen 45 percent a year since 1988, totaling $15 million last year. The company has earned recurring places on Inc. magazine's list of the 500 fastest-growing privately held firms.
In June, Mr. Davies was named Entrepreneur of the Year by Ernst & Young, an award that recognizes innovation, financial performance and commitment to business and the community.
Mr. Davies, 44, earned a master's in English literature and language from Oxford University. In 1986 he left Barclay's Bank as a corporate vice president to run a struggling computer dealership in New York. Six months later, when the owners lost faith in the business, he bought it.
Mr. Davies lives in Lloyd Neck with his wife, Beth, and two children.
Q. Why did you leave your banking career to manage an ailing computer company?
A. To be honest, I was bored. I'd been around the circle in banking, and there was nowhere new for me to go. A couple of customers had offered me jobs. One was Lambart, a used-computer-equipment dealer which asked me to run its U.S. subsidiary. It sounded pretty interesting. So I took it. But I had no idea what I was in for.
I knew the operation was in trouble. But when I got here it was essentially dead. Six months later Lambart didn't want to support it anymore. So I bought it.
Q. Why did you want to buy a dying company?
A. It wasn't the company I wanted. It was the maintenance division. The company had formed it -- almost by accident -- because customers were asking if they could get their equipment fixed, and Lambart didn't want to lose that income. I bought it because I thought it had potential. I thought maintenance was a promising business.
Q. And business took off with the recession?
A. Yes, because most people weren't buying new computers. When people bought new equipment they would get new warranties, and we'd lose them for a while. But they didn't want to invest. They were keeping their old machines and asking us to maintain them.
Also, Digital Equipment Corporation lost $2 billion and I.B.M. lost something like $5 billion in 1992, and we benefited from their misfortune. We made more money than both of them that year.
When they started to hemorrhage in the late 80's they lost a lot of their mystique. We were operating from a lower-cost profile and had an excellent reputation. People didn't know if they would even survive. So the fear of looking elsewhere for service was alleviated, and we were able to win some large accounts like NatWest Bank, the New York Stock Exchange and Unicef.
Q. How did you start working on disaster planning?
A. It started out that since we had the computers here we could provide the facilities people needed in a disaster. But it's become much more than that.
Think about the World Trade Center bombing. If you'd worked there and that was your only office what would you have done? How would your customers access you? If you had 20 phone lines and a ton of data, you couldn't set that up at home. So we set up a command center here. And we keep adding services.
Q. How important is disaster planning?
A. Something like 95 percent of businesses that have had a disaster without a backup plan have gone out of business. The shock to the system, the loss of customers and momentum means that over time the company just bleeds to death. People forget that disaster strikes in many ways.
Most are man-made, like fires and sprinkler floods.
It's essential to have some kind of plan so that if something happened you'd at least have somewhere to set up computer stations and forward your phone calls. We can replicate an entire computer system until a firm gets back on its feet.
Q. Does just your company offer those services?
A. A few companies are doing it like Sunguard and I.B.M. But they're focused at the higher end of things. We cater to the small to midsize businesses.
One problem we face is that most companies don't want to think about disaster planning. It's either too morbid or they think it won't happen to them. But I think that mentality is changing because of the World Trade Center bombing and the Oklahoma City tragedy.
Q. Why have you grown by acquiring companies only in the New York metropolitan region?
A. I think there's a tremendous advantage to focusing on one region, and I'd rather be a big fish in one pond. We're second in Digital Equipment maintenance and third in I.B.M. maintenance in New York, even though we're competing against a $250 million subdivision of Bell Atlantic. So there's definitely a powerful message there about establishing critical mass.
I don't think the service business really lends itself to being national or global, because it's tough and you have to keep your eye on the ball. The bigger you get, the harder that becomes. I'd like to be second only to Digital and I.B.M., and I think New York is a big enough town to do that in.
Q. How is doing business on Long Island?
A. The Island is moving to a service pace, which means the people I'm competing against all have the same cost profile as me. Over all, prices may be higher. But there's no unfair competition. There's no one providing maintenance to New York from South Carolina, for example, because you just can't do it. So the cost profile for all the players is the same. And we've got this great pool of people to choose from.
Q. How important is the Island's technical work force?
A. Quite important. I like to promote from within because I want to grow my own management. And obviously I'm growing them from the technical people. The problem is you wind up with virtually no women in senior management, because technology is such a male-dominated field.
That's not as true in the PC world as it is in the big-box world. And certainly in software there are a lot of women. My wife is a programmer for the company, and I think, as a general rule, women make better programmers. But I've only ever seen a few resumes from women.
Q. Why do you expect that most of your revenue will no longer come from maintenance?
A. People want to access more information from the desktop. We're getting into network integration, because that's where the world is going. People with older systems are migrating, and that's a huge threat to the maintenance business.
Since the day I started this company I've wanted to diversify so that we could shift with the market. Now the time is right. We've always sold hardware. You have to in order to service it. But we weren't very successful at it. So we bought Integration Technology Group in Westbury, which was a hardware company. They'd built a service division which they didn't know how to run, and it was bringing them down. We've merged our capabilities and hired a senior v.p. from Digital to help manage the whole thing. And there is our solutions division, things like disaster planning.
Q. How did you handle your employees' buying 10 percent of the company through a stock-investment program?
A. We wanted to raise money for acquisitions and thought, "Why not raise it from our own people?' Since ours is a very young work force -- the average age is around 30 -- the only money they have is in their 401-k's. So we gave them the option to invest that money in the company. We brought in a private consulting firm to educate them on how we make money, what funding our acquisitions would mean and what their money would be used for. Eighty-five percent of those eligible decided to invest.
There's a growing trend toward giving employees an interest in the company. The fact that such a large number of our people chose to invest is the closest thing to a pat on the back that I can get.
Q. What do you see as the future of independent-service providers?
A. There's a rumor that warranties will be rolled back -- most PC's currently have a three-year warranty -- and that Digital and I.B.M. are going to focus less on maintenance. The implication is that they'll get out of service altogether and that more manufacturer-authorized service opportunities will open up. I think there will always be independents around, because the barriers to entry aren't all that great and the technical people who can do the work are definitely out there.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Davies, president of U.S. Computer Group, which provides computer maintenance, in his Farmingdale office. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (55%); BARC (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US COMPUTER GROUP U S COMPUTER GROUP INC (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); BARCLAYS PLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US COMPUTER GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMPUTER & OFFICE EQUIPMENT REPAIR (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); 

PERSON: DAVIES, STEPHEN; KONIG, SUSAN ANN LIVERMORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



352 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 4; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Day-Care Centers, 100, Fill New Era's Needs

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE

 BODY:
PLASTIC Fisher-Price toys may have replaced the wooden puzzles and blocks of yesteryear, and the children gleefully running around the playground now wear overalls from Gap Kids instead of tidy sailor suits and dresses, but beyond these differences, little has changed at the New Rochelle Day Nursery since it was founded in 1895 as the first licensed day-care center in New York State. For the last century, this day-care center has provided an educational and nurturing environment for toddlers and pre-schoolers.
Concern about what to do with pre-school-age children while their mothers are at work did not develop two decades ago with the influx of women into the work force. Nor did it arise during World War II, when many mothers worked in defense plants. 
 Like the program at the New Rochelle Day Nursery, similar ones were started in the same era to meet the needs of working parents and offer young children more than just baby-sitting. In the county, those organizations include Mount Vernon Day Care, Ossining Children's Center and Queen's Daughters in Yonkers.
"It is suprising to a lot of people, but these child-care institutions were part of a national movement," said Stephanie King, director of the Westchester County Historical Society. "Westchester was on the cutting edge."
The origins of these day-care centers reflect the social realities of their times. New Rochelle Day Nursery was started by wealthy New Rochelle matrons as a nursery for their maids' children for a fee of 5 cents a day. It has evolved through the years to serve a variety of children and their families, ranging from domestic workers and landscape workers to nurses, bank managers, lawyers and doctors.
"Our population corresponds to the population of New Rochelle," said Susan Kuper, executive director of the New Rochelle Day Nursery. Although the majority of children are from New Rochelle, several families from the Bronx, Larchmont, Bronxville, Greenburgh and White Plains have enrolled their children in the program.
Children from 18 months through 6 years can attend the center from 7:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. and receive breakfast, hot lunch and two snacks. Activities are similar to other nursery school programs, including story time, arts and crafts, music and daily physical exercise. The center takes part in many joint activities with a neighboring home for the elderly, and Foster Grandparents are regular faces in the classroom.
The children also have the opportunity to garden in the center's plot, and the 4- and 5-year-olds have a computer program. The center also runs a state-accredited full- and half-day kindergarten program, which uses the same curriculum as the New Rochelle public school system. During school vacations, some older children attend the center.
Ossining Children's Center, which was also founded in 1895, had a different mandate. "We were started as an experiment," the executive director, Howard Milbert, said. "There were programs to address the new wave of immigration at that time. People felt very strongly that immigrants had to be educated so that the experiment in democracy would work.
"With the building of the railroad and the aqueduct here in the county, there were increasing numbers of immigrants. Many of the men lost their lives at work, and so you had mothers with young children who needed to work. We were also founded to meet the needs of these single women, as well as senior citizens who had lost their children in the Civil War or to the westward movement.
"The idea arose to have a day nursery where the senior citizens could watch the children. Our population, for the most part, is still single mothers and the working poor."
A 1907 tenement fire that killed some babies while their mothers were working in Yonkers factories had prompted a group of Catholic women to start the Queen's Daughters day nursery. The center, which is in one of the harsher sections of the city, continues to serve a needy population.
"There are very few two-parent households in our families," said Barbara Berrios, executive director of Queen's Daughters Day Care Inc. "The population is becoming poorer. The majority of our parents are borderline in income and don't have any support other than day care."
But even as the teachers, parents, children and members of the New Rochelle Day Nursery's volunteer board of directors celebrate the center's 100th anniversary today with music, magic performances and face painting, cutbacks in financing from the public and private sectors have cast a shadow over the festivities.
"Social services has cut funding, which has affected the ability of many parents to pay for day care," Ms. Kuper said. "Parent fees account for 50 percent of our operating costs, and because of all the cuts from government and the private sector, now the fees are coming from just the parents." Depending on a family's income, fees range from $115 to $160 a week, with some scholarships available.
With child-care subsidies (known as Title XX funds) frozen, some day-care providers are concerned about the effect on their client families and those families that are as yet unable to enroll their children in a program.
"It's extremely difficult now, with the cutbacks and the economy the way it is," said Mr. Milbert, who also serves as president of the Early Childhood Directors' Association of Westchester. "We thought Westchester County understood the important role we played in the economy in keeping people off public assistance. You have poor, single women struggling to get off welfare who are stuck. We have folks countywide set to start jobs or going back to school at the same time as all of the subsidized funding has been frozen. It defies all reason."
In response, Annette M. Myers, deputy commissioner of social services for the county, said: "We have not had a reduction in the amount of money. We have $5.8 million to distribute among four programs geared for families who are employed. What's happened is that so many more people are aware of the program or are applying for it that we have had to stop the intake of new families. A number of things are happening at once. We've had a larger subscription, so we're putting on the brakes to have the allocation last throughout the year. We recognize it as an important program. It's a very dynamic situation. Whatever happens to the Federal programs in October will affect people, and we're unsure what will happen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Programs that began as part of an 1890's national movement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ROCHELLE DAY NURSERY (NY) MOUNT VERNON NEON (55%); OSSINING CHILDREN'S CENTER (66%); WESTCHESTER COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ROCHELLE DAY NURSERY (NY) OSSINING CHILDREN'S CENTER (66%); WESTCHESTER COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DAY CARE CENTERS CHILDREN (90%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PARENTING (78%); PARENTS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); HISTORY (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ACCREDITATION (71%); GRANDPARENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); NURSES & NURSING (63%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); WORLD WAR II (54%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, MERRI ROCHELLE DAY NURSERY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



353 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 58; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: Big-City Amenities. Trees. High-Tech Jobs. Cappuccino. Retirement Paradise. Nose Rings.

BYLINE: By WITOLD RYBCZYNSKI; Witold Rybczynski, who teaches urban history at the University of Pennsylvania, is the author of "City Life: Urban Expectations in a New World."

 BODY:
Places Rated Almanac bills itself as a "guide to finding the best places to live." It compares and ranks all 343 metropolitan areas in the United States and Canada, taking into account cost of living, job opportunities, transportation, housing, recreation, climate and so on. The metropolitan areas surrounding large, vibrant cities like Seattle, San Francisco and Toronto are highly ranked -- after all, these places tend to boast a variety of employment, entertainment and recreational opportunities; they also offer a wide choice of health care facilities, and are usually important transportation hubs. It is a surprise, then, to discover that the fifth-rated place to live in the United States is Raleigh-Durham in North Carolina. This is a metropolitan area whose largest city, Raleigh, has only about 230,000 people; Durham is even smaller, with fewer than 150,000. Yet little Raleigh-Durham is hot: in 1992, Inc. magazine rated it as one of "the best places in the country to own a business," and last year, Money magazine gave it the coveted No. 1 spot in its "best places to live in America" issue.
The runners-up to Raleigh-Durham as Money's best places to live were Rochester, Minn., and Provo-Orem, Utah. All three are small-to-midsize regional centers that share several characteristics other than their size. They score high in that ephemeral but crucial category, "quality of life." They are near recreational resources like lakes and mountains. They have strong local economies and have lower unemployment, poverty and crime rates than the national average. But Raleigh-Durham, Rochester and Provo-Orem are not merely examples of successful small cities. They are also examples of a new urban trend: the rise of what might be called the college city.
The college town is an American institution. Throughout the 19th century, it was common practice to locate private colleges in small towns like Amherst in Massachusetts, Middlebury in Vermont and Pomona in California. The idea was that bucolic surroundings would provide the appropriate atmosphere for the pursuit of learning and (not incidentally) remove students from the distractions and temptations of the big city. The influence of the small college on its town was minimal, however, beyond providing a few local residents with service jobs.
 THE COLLEGE CITY IS ALTOGETHER different. At its heart is a large research university. In the case of Raleigh-Durham, there are actually three: Duke in Durham, North Carolina State in Raleigh and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, just down the road. (Provo has Brigham Young University and Rochester has the Mayo Clinic, which runs a graduate school.) Not only are modern research universities vast undertakings -- the three North Carolina universities have about 60,000 students among them -- but they also act as magnets for private enterprise, attracting industries that provide well-paying jobs in the high-tech and medical fields. For example, the 6,800-acre Research Triangle Park outside Raleigh is now home to more than 80 research enterprises that employ about 35,000 people.
It's not just jobs that lure people to these places. Simply put, life in most smaller cities is cheaper. A family moving from the metropolitan area of a large city like Philadelphia, say, to Raleigh-Durham would need considerably less income -- about 30 percent less -- to maintain the same standard of living. The savings come chiefly in the form of lower housing prices and property taxes as well as lower state and local taxes.
 IN THE PAST, A LOWER COST OF LIVING Usually translated into a lower standard of living. Life in small cities -- with or without colleges -- may have been cheaper but it was also restricted in terms of entertainment, shopping and recreation. Today, VCR's, sports channels, cineplexes, clothing and housewares catalogues, national distribution chains and the Internet have changed that. You don't have to travel to Manhattan any more to shop at Bloomingdale's -- all you need to do is go down to the mall or call an 800 number. This is more than merely a matter of convenience. It means that small cities can offer many, if not all, of the everyday services and amenities that used to be the exclusive province of the metropolis.
Where people live has always been influenced by technology. Once, the seaport, the railroad and the huge factory complex encouraged concentration in large cities. Truck transport and the automobile have had the opposite effect; so have the deregulation of airplane travel and telecommunications. Generally speaking, recent technological developments like cellular telephones, cable television, personal computers and fax machines have all supported dispersal. Indeed, it is difficult to think of a single invention in the past 50 years that has not been inspired by the desire to make modern life more decentralized.
The forces of decentralization account for much of the appeal of the college city. For example, the largest cities -- New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Boston -- traditionally have had the most sophisticated hospitals. The decentralization of medical skills now means that a regional medical center, like the one affiliated with Duke University, can provide worldclass health care. Another appeal of a college city is the access to continuing education, not only for people in midcareer, but especially for retirees. Mild climates and golf courses used to be the main attractions in retirement communities, but college cities, with their high-quality athletic programs, their university drama and music departments and their art galleries and museums offer a variety of diversions not available in most cities of comparable size. Life in a college city, whether it is Raleigh-Durham, Santa Cruz, Calif., or Charlottesville, Va., can be as cosmopolitan as it is in larger cities. The list of college cities is long and growing longer: Madison, Wis.; Ann Arbor, Mich.; San Luis Obispo, Calif.; Eugene, Ore.; Austin, Tex.; Bloomington, Ind.; Boulder, Colo.; Iowa City, Iowa, and Lawrence, Kan., are some examples.
The college city I know best is Burlington, Vt. This little city is in the foothills of the Green Mountains and on the shore of Lake Champlain. (Burlington itself has a population of less than 40,000 while the metropolitan area has about 157,000 people.) The setting is as idyllic as it sounds. Undoubtedly, it was the unspoiled surroundings and the recreational opportunities that drew many newcomers here during the 1960's and 70's. Burlington became a destination for those who wanted to escape big cities but were not quite ready for a dropout's life on a farm or in a commune. (The rest of Vermont offered those alternatives, too.) Burlington also attracted young professionals and entrepreneurs who were looking for a low-key urban life. The city's most famous success story of that era is Ben & Jerry's, whose first ice cream parlor was located in an abandoned service station downtown. High-tech corporations also found Burlington congenial, and I.B.M. and Digital Equipment Corporation established plants in the area. While not quite in the same league as booming Raleigh-Durham, Burlington exhibits many of the amenities of the larger college city: a busy regional airport and university medical center, growing white-collar employment and a beautiful environment.
I used to live close to Burlington, right over the Canadian border. My wife and I would frequently make the 90-minute drive, sometimes to shop, sometimes to visit the nearby Shelburne Museum -- an extraordinary collection of historic buildings and artifacts -- and sometimes to go boating on Lake Champlain. But most often we would go with no particular aim in mind, just to stroll the streets.
We would usually end up on Church Street, where a legacy of that urban design fad of the 70's still exists: the main street converted into a pedestrian mall. The malls of that period were usually a last-ditch effort to resuscitate declining downtowns; today, with their crumbling planters and unpainted benches, most downtowns are deserted. Church Street is an exception: it's a busy and thriving thoroughfare crowded with adults, children and dogs. There are sidewalk vendors, several good bookstores, an art supply store, the inevitable Banana Republic, a number of restaurants and bistros and cafes -- a veritable Green Mountain St.-Germain-des-Pres.
 EXAGGERATE, BUT THERE IS AT LEAST one real similarity to Paris's Latin Quarter: the place is teeming with students. (There are about 15,000 of them in Burlington, enrolled at the University of Vermont and at four other colleges.) The presence of so many young people may be one of the secrets to the success of college cities like Burlington. College students are generally bright, healthy, social and usually unencumbered by serious financial worries. They typically don't have large, comfortable homes to retreat to -- or families to take care of -- and so they tend to inhabit the public realm. At night, students are out and about; downtown Burlington has two independently owned cinemas as well as a renovated theater. Although some might complain that students, by their nature, can be bothersome, they contribute a vital ingredient to urban life. Unlike their career-crazed elders, college students really do have the time to sit in a cafe or dawdle on the village green, which is why many college cities have retained the vibrant kind of public street life that was once characteristic of larger cities. Who would have thought that the ivory tower would nurture that precious but rapidly disappearing commodity: civilized city life.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left to right: George Frey; Toby Talbot/Associated Press, for The New York Times (pg. 60); David Graham for The New York Times, and Dan Coyro. (pg. 61)
 
Chart: CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.
 
Town: 1994 metro population, 140,685.
 
Gown: University of Virginia, 18,000 students; 1,692 full-time employees.
 
Why Charlottesville?
 
Piedmont horse country and the Blue Ridge Mountains. Washington is only 117 miles away. Increasing high-tech industry has yet to compromise Old Virginia charm.
 
Growth: 1990-1994 population increase, 7.3 percent; since 1990, nonfarm jobs have increased 9.2 percent; unemployment, 3.3 percent (national average, 5.8 percent).
 
New Business: Lots of low-key high-tech. Micro Aire Surgical Instruments, employing j120 people, is the first company to move into U.Va.'s medical research park.
 
Vital Stats: 1993 per capita income, $21,943 (nationalaverage, $20,800); June home prices averaged $150,798 in Charlottesville (national average, $142,90).
 
Charlottesville Speaks: "There's been two kinds of people moving in; people whocome for a conscious decision to retire, and U.Va. students who graduatge and don't want to leave." -- Satyendra Singh Huja, director of planning and community development for Charlottesville. "This is huge with retirees. They've been making New York City dollars and can live like little kings." -- Hawed C. Spencer, editor of C-Ville Weekly. -- MIKE STEERE
 
(pg. 58)
 
PROVO-OREM, UTAH
 
Town: 1994 metro population, 290,983.
 
Gown: Brigham Young University; 31,500 students; 3,700 full-time employees.
 
Why Provo-Orem? Thanks to the bedrock values of pre-boom Mormon residents, Provo is crime- and problem-free - and still affordable. On the shores of Utal Lake, with worldclass skiing an hour away.
 
Growth: 1990-1994 population increase, 10.4 percent; since 1990, nonfarm jobs have increased 32.8 percent; unemployment, 2.7 percent.
 
New business: Lots, thanks to B.Y.U. computer graduated. Micron Technology is building a $1.5 billion plant, joining Novell, Word Perfect and many other computer-related companies.
 
Vital Stats: 1993 per capita income, $13,401 (low because of large families and young population); June home prices averaged $124,495.
 
Provo-Orem Speaks: "Anybody who really, really enjoys family, the outdoors and education will probably really enjoy it here. Religion has very little to do with it." -- Steve Densley, president, Provo-Orem Chamber of Commerce. -- M.S.
 
BURLINGTON, VT.
 
Town: 1993 metro population, 157,453.
 
Gown: University of Vermont, 10,230 students; 3,054 employees. Other four-year colleges, 5,640 students; 1,050 employees.
 
Why Burlington? Ski town by winter, beach town (Lake Champlain) by summer. The downtown pedestrian mall is a genuine municipal focus. Locals, who have known hard times, don't resent newcomers.
 
Growth: 1990-1993 population increase, 3.9 percent; since 1990, nonfarm jobs have increased 9 percent; June unemployment, 2.8 percent.
 
New Business: Although the I.B.M. chip-manufacturing plant, the city's economic mainstay, is adding 300 employees (after seriously downsizing in the past), there's more significant growth in entrepreneurship, nurtured by various government initiatives. Also, a healthy ski-equipment industry.
 
Vital Stats: 1993 per capita income, $20,933; June home prices averaged $149,477.
 
Burlington Speaks: "A gray day in Vermont is better than a sunny day in New Jersey." -- William Birnn, Birnn Chocolates of Vermont.
 
"I you're a real urbanite, this ain't the place to be. I had a wonderful kind of epiphany my first summer; I let people cut in front of me in line." -- Les Szabo, former I.B.M. spokesman. -- M.S.
 
(pg. 60)
 
RALEIGH-DURHAM-CHAPEL HILL, N.C.
 
Town: 1994 metro population, 965,139.
 
Gown: The majors: North Carolina State University (in Raleigh), 25,577 students and 5,746 employees; Duke University (in Durham), 11,009 students and 4,918 employees; University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 24,463 students and 9,012 employees. Other colleges: 11,970 students and 2,307 employees.
 
Why Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill? High-tech boom hasn't spoiled the small-city feel. Culture scene; ocean and mountains nearby. College-basketball heaven.
 
Growth: 1990-1994 population increase, 12.8 percent; since 1990, nonfarm jobs have increased 18.2 percent; unemployment, 3.3 percent.
 
New Business: North Carolina Research Triangle Park's 16 new enterprises created 2,000 jobs since 1990.
 
Vital Stats; 1993 per capita income, $22,071. June home prices averaged $157,476 in Raleigh's Wake County; $123,509 in Durham County, and $182,880 in Chapel Hill's Orange County.
 
Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill Speaks: "I can fly nonstop to London's Gatwick Airport. That's one thing you can't do in most small town." -- Kenneth S. Broun, Chapel Hill Mayor and U.N.C. professor. -- M.S.
 
SANTA CRUZ-WATSONVILLE, CALIF.
 
Town: 1994 metro population, 234,965.
 
Gown: University of California at Santa Cruz, 10,117 students; 2,361 employees.
 
Why Santa Cruz? Stand in the pacific and look east at redwood-clad mountains, which wall out the Silicon Valley sprawl. Downtown Santa Cruz hops all night; there are also Shakespeare and new-music festivals.
 
Growth: 1990-1994 populations increase, 2.3 percent; since 1990, the area lost nearly 2 percent of its nonfarm jobs, and unemployment was 7.4 percent (neither figure too awful for California).
 
New Business: Everybody roots for start-up software company Borland International, which is recovering from a fiscal crisis. And Seagate Technology, makers of hard-disk drives, is mushrooming.
 
Vital Stats: 1993 per capita income, $23,439; June home prices averaged $227,250.
 
Santa Cruz Speaks: "Issue for issue, we're a counterpoint to Pete Wilson." -- Scott Kennedy, city councilman and a former Mayor. "They're the classic computer nerds, but very creative." -- Neal Coonerty, a bookstore owner, about the software artistes. -- M.S.
 
(pg. 61)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (96%); VERMONT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (96%); PROVO, UT, USA (96%); DURHAM, NC, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (87%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (50%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (59%); NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (59%); NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (96%); VERMONT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (96%); PROVO, UT, USA (96%); DURHAM, NC, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (87%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; URBAN AREAS; RESEARCH; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RANKINGS (90%); CITIES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); TRENDS (73%); POVERTY RATES (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); CRIME RATES (64%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); 

PERSON: RYBCZYNSKI, WITOLD

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



354 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 36; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: Running Argument

BYLINE: By Thomas Powers; Thomas Powers is the author of several books, including "The War at Home: Vietnam and the American People" and "Heisenberg's War: The Secret History of the German Bomb."

 BODY:

TELLTALE HEARTS
The Origins and Impact of the
Vietnam Antiwar Movement.
By Adam Garfinkle.
370 pp. New York:
St. Martin's Press. $24.95. 
 IN the minds of millions of Americans somewhere back in the mid- to late 1970's, after the war in Vietnam had really and truly come to an end, there arose the heartfelt vow, part entreaty, part prayer of thanks, "Never again! No more arguing about Vietnam!"
The war of words, just like the war itself, seemed to go on forever, from the first faint misgivings around 1962, when the term "quagmire" began to turn up in news stories, through the fall and winter of 1967-68, when the voices grew hoarse and the country seemed on the verge of a nervous breakdown and the generals were talking about turning the tide at the very moment any reasonably attentive watcher of television news was beginning to conclude that there were zillions of Vietcong out there and they were never going to stop fighting. Endless war and endless argument seemed our fate.
But something changed on the night of March 31, 1968. President Lyndon Baines Johnson quit. He stopped the bombing (more or less), he opened the door to negotiations (although much time passed before anyone entered), he rejected military pleas for vast numbers of new troops (a fact that was not immediately shared with the public) and, above all, he promised not to run again for President. Coming as it did after a humiliatingly feeble "victory" over the antiwar candidate Eugene McCarthy in the New Hampshire primary, Johnson's abdication seemed less a selfless act of public service than a demonstration of his panicked recognition that he was on the road to being whipped.
What changed when Johnson quit, what made him do it and what followed as direct and indirect consequences are the subject of Adam Garfinkle's absorbing book, part history and part speculative sociological essay, on America's family quarrel over Vietnam. "Telltale Hearts: The Origins and Impact of the Vietnam Antiwar Movement" is vigorously argued and brings a new and unexpected point of view to a subject that seemed to have been exhausted years ago by arguments that grew ever coarser as they grew louder. But Mr. Gar finkle's greatest contribution to understanding Vietnam is his gut sense that the subject has been abandoned too long. The heart quails at plunging back into this sucking swamp of ancient emotion, yet Mr. Garfinkle is surely right in thinking that the mythos of Vietnam can be dangerous if ignored.
Mr. Garfinkle, a resident scholar at the Foreign Policy Research Institute in Philadelphia, was a little young when the war was at its height. When he was in high school he donned a black armband of protest following President Richard Nixon's election in 1968, but he escaped the full impact of Vietnam on those who felt forced to abandon one way of looking at the world -- generally complacent, sure of the national virtue -- for another, darker view. By the mid-1980's Mr. Garfinkle seems to have found himself to be a bit of a foreign policy hawk, and he began to wonder if he had misread the war in his youth. The death of the "Vietnam syndrome" announced by President George Bush after the Persian Gulf war struck Mr. Garfinkle as premature, and "Telltale Hearts" followed in due course.
Mr. Garfinkle's study of the argument over the war has convinced him of three things -- that the opposition not only failed to stop the war but actually prolonged it; that the true origins of the antiwar movement are to be found deep in American history; and that its broad effects on the way we think about politics and the American role in the world have subtly but profoundly altered every aspect of American life. Like the telltale heart of the Edgar Allan Poe story, the war is not dead and buried but haunting its survivors with its persistent throb.
Readers of American history should not have been surprised by the style and thinking of those who opposed the war in Vietnam, Mr. Garfinkle suggests. Pacifist refusal to fight in the world wars, leftism spawned by the Great Depression, the denunciations by Mark Twain and others of the American imperial adventure in the Philippines, and above all the bloody and bitter wrangle over the abolition of chattel slavery leading up to the Civil War were all forerunners of the college students who shouted "Hell no, we won't go!" in 1965. This rhetoric escalated in tandem with the war itself -- to "Hey! Hey! L.B.J.! How many kids did you kill today?" and "Smash the glass of the ruling class!" and "You don't need a weatherman to know which way the wind blows." If you don't immediately recognize these slogans, or have forgotten where they fit into the argument over the war, you need to read Mr. Garfinkle's book.
Vietnam came at a fatal or an opportune moment, depending on your point of view -- just as the bloodied veterans of the civil rights movement in the American South were beginning to switch the focus of their attention from segregated lunch counters to the economic and social structure of American capitalism itself. Johnson wanted to fight the war in Vietnam with draftees, but the young men called up for shaved heads and training as infantry grunts for the most part did not want to go. Mr. Garfinkle explains that traditional pacifists, idealist student reformers, Socialists, revolutionary Marxist-Leninists, even frowsty old-line Communists all saw the war as a heaven-sent opportunity to pursue their own agendas.
If there was a fatal flaw in Johnson's policy it was that the American military had to win, and to win quickly. Every year the war dragged on lent force to the radical critique of American society. A genuine left-wing political revolution was never in the cards, but a cultural revolution of "sex, drugs and rock-and-roll" swept aside traditional restraints, frightening American parents, alarming the establishment and infuriating the blue-collar America that supplied the overwhelming majority of the boys given the chance to die for their country in the jungles of Vietnam.
Writing a book about a popular movement is no simple task; there is too much going on simultaneously for any clear narrative line. The inevitable result is that a great many passages in "Telltale Hearts" read like this one: "Operation Pursestrings was SANE's idea . . . for the liberal and left-liberal right wing of the antiwar movement to move back onto campus in the wake of the demise of S.D.S. and the Student Mobe."
In his determination to tell the whole story Mr. Garfinkle quotes an immense range of sources, including an early book of my own. We disagree on one central point. Mr. Garfinkle thinks the antiwar movement angered middle America from the beginning, generated a backlash of support for the President every time it took to the streets, deflected the attention of the public from failure in Vietnam to the anarchy on the streets of home and weakened the opposition by getting it tarred as anti-American. These observations all strike me as true, but it also seems to me that the chaos and pain and shrill vituperation of the war in the streets and, thanks to television, in American living rooms, imposed a price for continuing the war that Johnson and Nixon were ultimately unwilling to pay.
 BY the same token, Mr. Garfinkle seems blind to the war's deeper fatality -- that our early support for the French in Indochina meant we were bound to fight it, that it was bound to divide us and that we were bound to tire of a struggle that cost so much, made so little progress and promised so paltry a reward at the end. I would argue that it was the antiwar movement that opened the way for Allard Lowenstein and the Dump Johnson campaign to work a near miracle in New Hampshire in March 1968, just as it was the antiwar movement that brought American tempers to the boil and beyond, persuading Johnson's senior advisers to reject Gen. William Westmoreland's request for a vast new commitment of troops in the wake of the Vietcong's Tet offensive. This was the moment when Johnson quit and the United States began the long and painful process of getting out of Vietnam.
I think the point is an important one. No democratic people can remain indifferent when its sons are fighting a bloody war. If there had been no antiwar movement I suspect the public ground would have been taken over by cries of "Why not win?" Down that road unknown perils lay.
But this is a difference of opinion, not a flaw in Mr. Garfinkle's book. He has ample reason to think what he thinks, argues it well and is moved by a serious purpose -- the desire to understand the deeper origins of the political factions battling for the American soul and future in Newt Gingrich's Congress. The arguments over abortion, women's rights, affirmative action, protection of the environment, what to do in Bosnia, human rights in China, reducing the capital gains tax and welfare reform can all be traced back to the extraordinary years when Americans felt the national soul was being won or lost in Vietnam.
It was a miserable time to live through. But Mr. Garfinkle is persuasive: If we want to understand how we have reached our present impasse, we must go back to the war and sort it all out.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A protest against the Vietnam War on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, 1967. (THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TELLTALE HEARTS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (50%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (50%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); VIETNAM WAR (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); LITERATURE (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); SOCIOLOGY (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); 

PERSON: POWERS, THOMAS; GARFINKLE, ADAM RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



355 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Out Towns

BYLINE: By George F. Will; George F. Will is a nationally syndicated columnist whose most recent book is "The Leveling Wind: Politics, the Culture and Other News, 1990-1994."

 BODY:

CITY LIFE
Urban Expectations in a New World.
By Witold Rybczynski.
256 pp. New York:
Scribner. $23. 
 IN the 12th century, when Paris, with a population of 100,000, was Europe's largest city, the city of Cahokia was about as populous as Florence (40,000). But Cahokia, sprawling over almost six square miles, was much less densely populated than compact Florence. And much less durable. It seems to have had no walls or other fortifications, its domestic architecture was made of logs and bark, and it vanished before Hernando de Soto arrived in the region in 1539. Cahokia was in what is now southwestern Illinois, near St. Louis.
Cahokia, as archeologists describe it, shows just how early there was a distinctively New World style of urban living. Puzzlement about the differences between American and European cities is as persistent as the differences. "Why aren't our cities like that?" was the question a friend put to Witold Rybczynski when she returned from Paris. Ask a professor (Mr. Rybczynski is professor of urbanism at the University of Pennsylvania) a straightforward question and you are apt to get a long answer. Mr. Rybczynski's answer to his friend's question is a book -- not a long one, but one packed with common sense, subtlety and observations that illuminate our always evolving urban landscape. Readers who allow Mr. Rybczynski to take them on a brisk stroll through "City Life: Urban Expectations in a New World" are apt to understand, and like, their cities more than they do when they begin the stroll.
The trouble is, Americans do not think they are supposed to like cities. They like living in the sort of nation Hamilton wanted -- urban, industrial, dynamic -- but they want to talk like Jefferson, who said, "The mobs of great cities add just so much to the support of pure government as sores do to the strength of the human body" and "I view great cities as pestilential to the morals, the health, the liberties of man." Jefferson exemplified the American ambivalence about cities. As Mr. Rybczynski dryly notes, Jefferson may have lived on an isolated mountaintop but he lived there in a house he radically redesigned to resemble a fashionable Parisian residence, the Hotel de Salm, and he furnished it with a lot of French furniture that was not exactly rustic. Sherwood Anderson chose to live in Chicago while writing "Winesburg, Ohio." And for several generations Americans have been fleeing to suburbs (named, as Peter De Vries said, after what the developers destroyed to build them -- Rolling Acres, Forest Glen, and so forth) situated near highways and railroads that expedite flight back from crabgrass to city concrete five days a week.
Americans, Mr. Rybczynski says, have bestowed the title "city" exuberantly and promiscuously. In 1872 the grandly named Dodge City had a few adobe houses, about a dozen frame houses and about two dozen tents. Miami had 343 voters when it declared itself a city in 1896. By 1920 it had 30,000 residents; 70 years later it was the core of the llth largest metropolitan area in the United States. Such swift transformations are the key to Mr. Rybczynski's understanding of American urban experience: no large European city was founded after the 16th century, and no American city was founded before that. Which is to say, American cities came along in a context of new ideas, like democracy and toleration, and new technologies, like automobiles.
Paris, he writes, reflects the esthetic visions of various planning elites over four centuries. The only American city that makes similar grand gestures, Washington, was designed by a Frenchman. (Never mind that when another Frenchman, Alexis de Tocqueville, visited Washington in 1831 the third largest building, after the Capitol and the White House, was a tavern.) Above all, the American city, Mr. Rybczynski says, has been "a stage for the ideas of ordinary people." And arguably the most American city, the first example of 20th-century urbanism, is the one famously disparaged as the second city: Chicago.
It was laid out on the grid system that is suited to American cities that have commercial downtowns, not cathedrals or royal precincts, as their focal points. What Mr. Rybczynski calls "the anonymous American grid" became "an ideal accommodating device for a more tolerant society," to the extent that a wide variety of beliefs and ethnicities could flourish, with none privileged by an act of urban planning. In 1880 almost 90 percent of Chicagoans were first- or second-generation immigrants. Chicago then and after exhibited the tension between "horizontal ideals and vertical aspirations." Adjacent prairies invited, and electric trolleys facilitated, growth of the grids toward the horizon. But in 1871 a useful fire provided a tabula rasa for downtown builders. This extraordinary opportunity (which is how jaunty Chicagoans regarded their calamity) occurred just as structural steel, elevators and telephones were emancipating urban architecture from limits imposed by the weight-bearing capacity of stone walls and the stair-climbing endurance of people.
Manhattan, particularly the Manhattan encouraged by geology (bedrock, the most economical base for skyscrapers, is near the surface at the tip of the island, around Wall Street, and in Midtown south of Central Park), exemplifies one striking contrast between New World and Old World cities. In the New World, the most impressive urban buildings are not public works like Saint Paul's Cathedral or the Eiffel Tower, but private enterprises like the Chrysler Building with its eagle gargoyles evoking the hood ornaments on the company's cars.
However, a humble occurrence in Memphis in 1916 -- just as Henry Ford's Model T was making personal mobility a universal aspiration and (hence) an inalienable right -- did more than skyscrapers to presage the future of urban living. What happened was the founding of Piggly Wiggly, the first self-service grocery store chain and model for future supermarkets.
Mr. Rybczynski, who has a gimlet eye for the mighty consequences of mundane connections, says refrigerators made it possible to store food in quantity, and automobiles made it possible to carry food purchased in weekly rather than daily shopping trips. Soon such trips were being made to supermarkets unsuited to downtowns: "Unlike department stores, supermarkets are spread out on one floor and, especially when parking is taken into account, require large building lots, which are more affordable on the edge of town." Today long-distance trucks, traveling on federally subsidized highways, deliver their goods at the edge of town, not downtown near the old railroad depots. They arrive at large shopping centers. In 1946 there were eight such novelties. But between 1970 and 1990 Americans opened 25,000 new shopping centers -- one every seven hours. Today some malls have playgrounds and skating rinks.
 MR. RYBCZYNSKI, who hasn't gotten the word that everything modern must be disparaged, says: "I think that what attracts people to malls is that they are perceived as public spaces where rules of personal conduct are enforced. In other words, they are more like public streets used to be before police indifference and overzealous protectors of individual rights effectively insured that any behavior, no matter how antisocial, is tolerated."
There is nothing quite like a dose of unvarnished history for inoculating people against the tendency to indict the present for failing to measure up to a sentimental notion of the past. Although Mr. Rybczynski has robust complaints about our urban living, he is wonderfully dry-eyed about the passing of cities of the sort that existed before there were "the urban technologies we take for granted. . . . The mud in the street was mixed with horse manure, and domestic waste was scattered everywhere, for there was no trash collection. Garbage simply accumulated outside and was trampled into the street, which explains why the oldest Manhattan streets are anywhere from 6 to 15 feet higher than their original levels."
Mr. Rybczynski has written a wonderfully informative, entertaining and nuanced answer to the question why our cities aren't like Paris. In the process he has shown readers how to receive the answer -- we have the cities we have because we have the attributes we have -- with minimal regrets.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CITY LIFE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS CITY LIFE (95%); CITIES (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); LITERATURE (72%); SUBURBS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ARCHAEOLOGY (54%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (54%); 

PERSON: WILL, GEORGE F; RYBCZYNSKI, WITOLD WITOLD RYBCZYNSKI (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995



356 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1837 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Say Earth's Warming Could Set Off Wide Disruptions

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

 BODY:
The earth has entered a period of climatic change that is likely to cause widespread economic, social and environmental dislocation over the next century if emissions of heat-trapping gases are not reduced, according to experts advising the world's governments.
The picture of probable disruption, including adverse changes and some that are beneficial, emerges from draft sections of a new assessment of the climate problem by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and from interviews with scientists involved in the assessment. The panel, a United Nations group of 2,500 scientists from around the world, advises parties to a 1992 treaty that are negotiating reductions in heat-trapping greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide. 
 The new feature of the assessment -- the first in five years by the intergovernmental panel -- is that the experts are now more confident than before that global climate change is indeed in progress and that at least some of the warming is due to human action, specifically the burning of coal, oil and wood, which releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Like its predecessors, the forecast depends heavily on uncertain computer simulations of the atmosphere's response to heat-trapping gases.
While some environmentalists and their allies have long believed potentially catastrophic human-induced climate change to be a fact, and some political conservatives and industry groups have been skeptical, experts in the mainstream of climate science have never confirmed either view.
So far, most governments have taken small steps to rein in emissions of greenhouse gases, with the hope of at least avoiding further contribution to the warming problem. But even before the current reassessment, parties to the 1992 treaty had agreed that these steps were inadequate and had opened talks aimed at stronger measures.
According to draft sections of the new forecast, some of the predicted effects of climate change may now be emerging for the first time or with increasing clarity. The possible early effects include these:
*A continuing rise in average global sea level, which is likely to amount to more than a foot and a half by the year 2100. This, say the scientists, would inundate parts of many heavily populated river deltas and the cities on them, making them uninhabitable, and would destroy many beaches around the world. At the most likely rate of rise, some experts say, most of the beaches on the East Coast of the United States would be gone in 25 years. They are already disappearing at an average of 2 to 3 feet a year.
*An increase in extremes of temperature, dryness and precipitation in some regions. A United States Government study conducted by one of the panel's scientists has shown that these extremes are increasing in America. There is a 90 to 95 percent chance, the study concluded, that climate change caused by the emission of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide is responsible. The intergovernmental panel forecasts an increase in droughts like the current one in the Northeastern United States, heat waves like the one in Chicago this summer, and more fires and floods in some regions.
*A "striking" retreat of mountain glaciers around the world, accompanied in the Northern Hemisphere by a shrinking snow cover in winter. In some semi-arid regions, the panel says, runoff from melting glaciers may increase water resources. But in most places, rivers and streams could be diminished in the summer.
"While there will be some beneficial effects of climate change, there will be many adverse effects, with some being potentially irreversible," says one of the panel's draft summaries.
Beneficial effects, if the panel's forecast is right, would include, for instance, milder winters in northern climes, an increase in rainfall in some regions that need it, and faster crop growth. Grain belts of North America and Russia could expand. Agricultural production worldwide is not expected to decrease much.
But some regions -- especially sub-Saharan Africa, South and Southeast Asia and tropical Latin America -- could suffer losses in their harvests. Deserts are expected to expand, and the heartlands of continents to become drier. There would be more rain throughout the world. Northern temperate regions would experience more rain and less snow in winter. In summer, water would evaporate faster, drying the soil.
Natural ecosystems, being untended, would be even more vulnerable than cropland. Forest trees could not migrate northward fast enough to keep up with shifting climatic zones, and some forests would disappear, the panel says.
Computerized models indicated that if atmospheric carbon dioxide levels double, "one-third of all the forest area of the earth will change," said Dr. Steven P. Hamburg, a forest ecologist at Brown University who is a member of the intergovernmental panel. "But we still don't have a good grasp of what it will look like," he added. Carbon dioxide concentrations are expected to double late in the next century if no further action is taken to limit emissions.
Climate forecasting is a difficult and often controversial science. One major subject of dissension are the computer models on which the intergovernmental panel's report largely depends. The climate experts on the panel believe their models have become increasingly reliable. But skeptics continue to assert that the models fail to simulate the present climate realistically and hence are an unsure guide to future climates.
There is wide agreement among scientists that the average surface temperature of the globe has already risen by about 1 degree Fahrenheit during the last century, with the steepest rise taking place in the last 40 years. But given the natural variability of the earth's climate and the wide fluctuations in temperature known to have occurred in the distant past, climate experts have until now been almost unanimous in saying they could not prove that human emission of greenhouse gases was playing in part in the warming.
Scientific opinion among climatologists is now shifting, and more are prepared to say that human activity is a likely cause of at least part of the climatic change experienced so far.
The human contribution to global warming could range from highly significant to trivial. The scientists say it is not yet possible to measure how much of the warming has been caused by human activity and how much is a result of natural causes.
Computer models are the principal basis for the draft report's forecast that the world's average surface temperature will rise by about 1.5 to 6 degrees Fahrenheit by the year 2100 if no further action is taken to rein in greenhouse gas emissions. Further warming -- 50 to 70 percent more than what took place by 2100 -- would take place after that year, the report says. The warming would be somewhat larger if, as appears possible, industry stops emitting sulfate aerosols, which exert a cooling effect by reflecting sunlight and are air pollutants in their own right.
Even if atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases were stabilized immediately, the report says, the world would still warm by about 1 to 3.5 degrees, resulting in some degree of climatic dislocation.
The panel's draft report has yet to undergo review by governments but its members say they expect few if any substantial changes in the findings. Members of the panel said in interviews that there was a range of views among their group as to the impacts of the predicted warming. The draft reports, they said, represent a reconciliation of these views. They said further that in the case of agriculture, one competing school of thought held that farmers would adapt with new crops and methods, while another said that food production might plummet in some regions.
Sea-level rise is one of the clearer consequences expected of the predicted warming. Measurement of the rise is "the dipstick of climate change" said Dr. Stephen P. Leatherman, director of the Laboratory for Coastal Research at the University of Maryland and a reviewer of the panel's chapter on the subject.
Since its last full assessment in 1990, the panel has cut its estimate of expected average sea-level rise between now and 2100 from a "best estimate" of 26 inches to a little less than 20 inches, with a possible range of 10 to 31 inches. A further rise is expected after 2100. The best estimate for 2100, the draft report says, would by then put at risk tens of millions of people in low-lying areas and on oceanic islands. Many low areas, like parts of the Maldives, Egypt and Bangladesh, would be inundated, and many of their inhabitants would be cast on the world's mercies as environmental refugees.
At present, the draft report says, an estimated 46 million people experience flooding because of storm surges each year. Under the best estimate for 2100, 92 million to 118 million would be so affected. Rich countries might be able to adapt, but at the cost of spending $521 million a year on sea walls and other protection, the panelists estimate. Even then, many coastal wetlands and sandy beaches would have to be sacrificed. Poorer countries would find it more difficult to protect themselves, the report says.
"The incidence of floods, droughts, fires and pest outbreaks is expected to increase in some regions," the draft report says. One region in which the climate has already become more variable is North America, according to a study headed by Thomas M. Karl of the National Climatic Data Center, a Federal agency in Asheville, N.C. The report concluded that from 1980 through 1994, the greenhouse effect increased the incidence of drought, above-normal temperatures, summertime precipitation and heavy rainstorms in many areas of the United States.
The current drought in the Northeast and the lethal midsummer heat wave in Chicago would probably have happened anyway, but the greenhouse effect may have made them worse, said Mr. Karl, who is a member of the panel.
The global impact of climate change on agriculture is likely to be "small to moderate" if measures are taken, the panel says. But regional effects are expected to vary widely.
For instance, the semi-arid croplands of sub-Saharan Africa, already vulnerable, would be even more so, said Dr. Cynthia Rosenzweig, a research agronomist at the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York and a co-author of the report's agriculture chapter.
In North America, Dr. Rosenzweig said, "it's really quite an opposite picture of vulnerability." Carbon dioxide promotes plant growth, and this may outweigh negative changes, which may be less severe in temperate zones in any case.
Still, she said, the United States would probably not escape agricultural dislocation. A change in climatic zones would force farmers to change crops -- growing citrus fruits farther north, for instance.
"There's no doubt we in the U.S. can adapt, but we shouldn't think those adaptations are cost-free," she said.

GRAPHIC: Map of the earth (pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE; UNITED NATIONS (UN) INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE; UNITED NATIONS (UN) INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EARTH (92%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; CARBON DIOXIDE; FORECASTS; EARTH; AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE CLIMATOLOGY (92%); CLIMATE CHANGE (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BEACHES (85%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); DROUGHT (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (73%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (71%); COASTAL AREAS (66%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



357 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Patents;
Good news and bad news for the maker of a drug for people who are anemic and on dialysis.

BYLINE: By Teresa Riordan 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AMGEN INC., the pioneer biotechnology company, recently got good news and bad news on the patent front.
First the bad news, which arrived in late August but which Amgen said it did not consider newsworthy enough to tell its stockholders about: the European Patent Office possibly has opened the door for a licensee of Amgen's archrival, Genetics Institute, to sell erythropoietin in Europe. The drug, better known as EPO, is used to treat anemia in people on dialysis. 
 After millions of dollars in patent litigation, Amgen has successfully asserted a United States patent it received in 1987 to keep Genetics Institute and others out of the EPO market in the United States. But the European market is also important: it represents about $400 million of EPO's $3 billion worldwide sales.
In November last year, the Technical Board of Appeal of the European Patent Office essentially upheld a similar Amgen patent covering Europe, which the company has licensed to Ortho Pharmaceuticals. But in that ruling the agency said it would address in later written comments several questions with potential commercial import.
Essentially, there are two ways to make the EPO protein. One involves replicating an unabridged version of the hereditary material that encodes it, which is known as "genomic" DNA. The other involves making copies of something called cDNA, which is a condensed version of this hereditary material.
In its written comments, the European appeal board appears to say that while the Amgen patent covers EPO made by the first method, it does not cover EPO made by the second method.
"The board's language, while not unambiguous, seems to say cDNA is outside the scope of the Amgen patent," said Bruce M. Eisen, a patent attorney who serves as a consultant to Genetics Institute, which has licensed its three patents covering other aspects of EPO to Boehringer Mannheim of Germany.
"It's a significant opening of the barn door to competitors in Europe," said Colin G. Sandercock, a patent attorney with the Washington law firm of Foley & Lardner.
Stuart Watt, a patent attorney for Amgen, objected strongly to this interpretation. "It means that litigation will go on, yes," he said. "But we expected that. The value of this product is such that if someone can get just a slice of the worldwide market, it's worth their while" to challenge the patent.
As for Amgen's good news? It has received a second United States patent for EPO. "This patent keeps people from making EPO abroad and then importing it into the U.S.," Mr. Watt said.
Amgen received patent 5,441,868.
 
New Check Design To Help Keep Track
 For most people, keeping track of household expenses -- whether for tax or budget purposes -- means having to conjure up lost receipts and sift through shoeboxes stuffed with canceled checks.
Mason K. Yu Sr., a retired engineer in Birmingham, Mich., recently patented a checking system that would do away with this drudgery. Mr. Yu has designed a check whose lower left corner is divided into different expense categories like "medical" or "food" or "recreation."
Each time the consumer wrote a check, according to Mr. Yu, he would mark the appropriate expense category. Normally banks process checks by putting them through an optical scanner, which reads the account number. Mr. Yu said that this same scanner simultaneously could read the checked-off category into a computer.
At the end of the month, the bank statement would include, in addition to a list of deposits and debits, a bar graph showing the dollar amount spent in each category, and a pie chart showing each category's percentage of total expenditures.
"The number crunching is invisible to the end-user," said Mr. Yu's son, Mason K. Yu Jr. of Manhattan, who is marketing the idea. He pointed out that electronic checking programs like Intuit's Quicken are used by only a tiny proportion of the population.
"Americans still write 60 billion paper checks a year," Mr. Yu Jr said. "The average person doesn't want to have to be a computer jockey to figure out their expenses."
Mr. Yu Sr., who said he had a patent pending for a similar system using credit cards and automatic teller cards, said his idea would be helpful to small-business owners in particular.
In addition, banks could generate valuable data bases of consumer information by providing such a service, according to Mr. Yu Sr. "You could take the pulse of a regional economy at any given moment," he said.
Mr. Yu Sr. received patent 5,433,483.
 
New Backboard For Basketball
 The United States Patent Office's annual National Inventor's Expo at Disney World's Epcot Center over the weekend featured exhibits by 125 independent inventors whose patents ranged from a glow-in-the-dark croquet set to a wristwatch designed to help smokers quit the habit. One exhibitor was Mark T. Daniels, of Sarasota, Fla., who invented a basketball backboard that forms a right angle.
Above the hoop, in the corner formed on the backboard by the design, is a wedge that resembles an elongated pyramid. "Originally the wedge was to keep the ball from getting stuck in the corner," Mr. Daniels said. "But we discovered that it gives a missed shot an unpredictable bounce that helps sharpen your rebounding skills."
Mr. Daniels's invention is covered by patent 5,299,800. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (98%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (73%); 

COMPANY: AMGEN INC; GENETICS INSTITUTE INC AMGEN INC (98%); FOLEY & LARDNER LLP (53%); EUROPEAN PATENT ORGANISATION (84%); EUROPEAN PATENT ORGANISATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMGEN INC; GENETICS INSTITUTE INC EUROPEAN PATENT ORGANISATION (84%); EUROPEAN PATENT ORGANISATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (73%); 

SUBJECT: INVENTIONS AND INVENTORS; EPO (RECOMBINANT ERYTHROPOIETIN) (DRUG); ANEMIA; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS; BASKETBALL PATENTS (93%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%); ANEMIA (91%); DIALYSIS (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); PATENT LAW (89%); LAWYERS (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (78%); DNA (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (76%); LITIGATION (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (60%); BASKETBALL (59%); SHAREHOLDERS (57%); 

PERSON: YU, MASON K SR; DANIELS, MARK T YU SR (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



358 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
NEW CONCERNS OVER BOSNIA
NATO gave the Bosnian Serbs a second 72-hour extension for removing weapons from around the capital, but a Government offensive raised fears that the steps taken toward peace could unravel. A1
 
IN RWANDA, SOME HAPPY ENDINGS
The Rwandan massacres and civil war killed an estimated half million people and left 100,000 children separated from parents. Now a program is working to reunite some of the separated families. A1
 
A PERIOD OF CLIMATE CHANGE
New assessments of the problem of climatic change indicate that it is likely to cause significant economic and social disruptions in the coming years if emissions of heat-trapping gases are not cut. A1
 
HONG KONG VOTERS' MESSAGE
Hong Kong held its last legislative elections before China takes over the British colony in 1997, and voters appeared to deliver a blow to Beijing-backed candidates. A8
 
CZECH ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORT
A model program to reduce gases that are altering the world's climate is being set up in the Czech Republic by American companies, and it could be widely copied in Eastern Europe if it works. A8
 
ISRAEL TALKS STILL IN DEADLOCK
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, under pressure to complete an agreement, continued talks on self-rule, but a sticking point still remained. A3
 
CUBA HOLDS RENEGADE U.S. OFFICER
Cuba has arrested a former C.I.A. officer wanted in the United States for 15 years for an array of charges, but it was not clear whether he would be turned over. A6
 
A proposal was reported to aid Northern Ireland talks. A6
 
Haiti voted in elections seen likely to stabilize its Government. A5
 
Johannesburg Journal: A papal mass, and a new day. A4
 
National A10-12, B7-8
 
MOVE AGAINST LOBBYING
House Republican leaders have decided to bring anti-lobbying measures to the floor in the next few weeks, abandoning their plan to wait until next year. A1
 
IMPLANT CASE'S FAR REACH
Never has the rush to doctors' offices in a class-action suit been so startling -- or the financial stakes so high for patients, doctors, lawyers and manufacturers -- as in the case of breast implants. A1
 
PERIL IN TUBERCULOSIS
The surge in tuberculosis is due less to the limits of medicine than to the profit motives of drug companies, participants at an international meeting said. A1
 
TURNER DEAL SEEMS SET
Ending a tortuous, monthlong courtship, Time Warner's $8 billion offer for Turner Broadcasting seems likely to be approved by both companies' boards this week after Time Warner apparently struck a deal with a big Turner stockholder.A1
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS SURVEY DAMAGE
Hurricane Marilyn moved on from St. Thomas, but it left the Caribbean island vastly damaged. A10
 
VOTING ON SEATTLE'S FUTURE
Seattle voters will go to the polls to decide whether to pay for a large park and a new stadium. A10
 
QUEST FOR SPORT TEAMS FAULTED
Municipal officials from across the Southeast were told at a gathering in Atlanta that the competition among cities to attract sports teams was misguided. A10
 
PREDICTING WELFARE OVERHAUL
Newt Gingrich predicted that Congress would complete an overhaul of welfare by Thanksgiving and come up with a measure reducing the rules on how states conduct their welfare programs. A12
 
MONEY FOR CALIFORNIA COUNTY
The California Legislature acted to rescue Orange County from its fiscal crisis but left Los Angeles County with a huge budget gap. B7
 
GRAMM WINS STRAW POLL
Senator Phil Gramm of Texas finished first in a straw poll held at a convention of the National Federation of Republican Women. B7
 
Metro Digest B1
 
Sports C1-9
 
Baseball: Yanks' loss leaves them a game out in wild-card race. C1
Mets complete a three-game sweep of the Phillies. C9
Columns: Anderson on the Giants' offense. C3
Rhoden on two Jet rookies. C4
Smith on the wild-card race. C9
Football: Giants fall to 0-3 with loss to Packers. C1
Jets romp over the expansion Jaguars for first victory. C1
Golf: For players, the pressure of the Ryder Cup is unmatched. C2
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
The television networks' scheduling wars. C11
Bastille Opera opens. C11
Music: "Don Giovanni." C12
"Mathis der Maler." C12
Folk music from Asia. C13
Simon and the Bar Sinisters at the Mercury Lounge. C13
Mamady Keita and Sewa Kan at Symphony Space. C13
Dance: St. Petersburg Male Ballet. C12
Books: "Heart: A Memoir." C16
Television: "Danny Hoch: Some People." C14
 
Business Digest D1
 
Obituaries B9
 
Sir Grahame Clarke, archeologist.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
Global warming heats up.
Senator D'Amato's chance.
The bar sets an example.
A grinding debate.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: The authentic quality.
Bob Herbert: Disgracing the badge.
William Safire: The phony air war.
Gary Milhollin: Fire sale.
 
Bridge C16
 
Chronicle A13
 
Crossword C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RWANDA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); ISRAEL (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

COMPANY: C1 GOLF (75%); TIME WARNER SPORTS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); ISRAEL (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); FAMILY (76%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); EMISSIONS (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (66%); TUBERCULOSIS (65%); ARRESTS (64%); APPROVALS (64%); CLASS ACTIONS (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



359 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Seattle to Vote Its Hopes, or Fears, on Stadium and Park

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 17

 BODY:
Having exported its coffee, music and software trends to the rest of the world, residents of the biggest city in the Pacific Northwest are not accustomed to evoking other American cities when discussing civic dreams.
But as Seattle approaches an election that will shape its future, people here are talking -- favorably -- about once disparaged places like New York, Baltimore and Cleveland. 
 On Tuesday, voters in Seattle will decide if they want to raise their property taxes to build one of the largest park and urban renewal projects that any American city has attempted in this century -- a $312 million venture known as the Seattle Commons.
Supporters envision the project as a blend of Central Park in New York, the Champs-Elysees in Paris and hometown high-tech futurism. To opponents, it is seen as a bulldozer attack that would level a perfectly good neighborhood to make way for a "yuppie ghetto."
On the same day, voters in King County, which includes Seattle, will decide whether to raise the sales tax to build a $285 million baseball stadium for the long-suffering, but suddenly hot, Seattle Mariners. This debate has given Cleveland and Baltimore, both of which recently built successful new outdoor ball parks, so much favorable publicity in Seattle that they are cited in the same breath as Mount Rainier.
In the past, Cleveland has been mentioned, if at all, only as a place where the river once caught fire. And Seattle residents who could not locate Baltimore on a map now know the most intimate details about that city's Camden Yards.
As the Mariners have found themselves in a pennant race for the first time in club history, and as a big advertising budget for the Commons has kicked in, support for both measures, which had been lagging in polls, has increased. Experts now predict close votes on Tuesday.
In constant debates, people are trying to decide what this city should look like, and who should pay for it. Seattle is within a two-hour drive of three national parks -- Rainier, Olympic and North Cascades -- but it has no great central city park, and its cavernous, concrete Kingdome is considered one of the worst places to play the national pastime.
"Cities don't get any better if they are driven by the negativists, the pessimists and the naysayers," Dori Monson, a talk-radio host, said in a noontime debate one day last week.
But this is also a city where the so-called lesser Seattle movement has a strong hold, a city that has voted in the past to stop construction of new freeways and to cap the number and height of skyscrapers, and has kept apartments out of its distinct neighborhoods of detached houses. With its natural beauty and robust economy, Seattle tends to shrug its shoulders at things that other cities would grab in an instant.
The two measures on the ballot would bring grass, in the form a baseball diamond with 45,000 seats, and a 60-acre park surrounded by 5,000 units of new housing, to the fringes of downtown. The Commons would cost the owner of a $150,000 house a tax increase of about $48 a year for the next eight years. The stadium measure would raise the sales tax one-tenth of 1 percent.
Even people who love baseball and crave open space in the city are troubled by the financial packages. Why, they say, should the public pay for things that are going to enrich private companies? Why haven't any of the new software billionaires this region has spawned put up the money?
The debate is complicated by the fact that Paul Allen, the billionaire co-founder of the Microsoft Corporation, has made an enormous donation to the Commons. In the largest single gift in this city's history, Mr. Allen has pledged $21 million for the project. A big part of that money would be put into an endowment to insure that there is adequate police protection and maintenance -- thus taking away one of the major arguments against the project.
Mr. Allen says the Commons would be a "great, green breathing space" in the middle of his hometown. "I grew up here, spent a lot of time as a kid in city parks," he said in an interview. "I've lived in Boston. And there's no great central park like the Boston Commons in downtown Seattle. So I thought it was a wonderful opportunity."
Still, even with Mr. Allen's donation, and a promise to raise an additional $40 million in privation donations, the future of the Commons project is clouded. The plans are to relocate 130 businesses from what is now an old warehouse and car lot district, then to try to lure new businesses and new homes around the park and boulevard. It would take 20 years for it all to come together, but could bring in 16,000 new jobs and spur $2 billion in private investment, according to city projections.
No major city in America has built a large downtown park in nearly a century, Commons supporters say. Also, the plan fits with the city's desire to attract new growth to "urban villages" in undeveloped parts of Seattle, rather than allow more sprawl at the suburban edges.
On closer inspection, many people who once favored the Commons have turned against it. They see the mistakes of history and the excesses of Robert Moses, the city builder of New York, being repeated on the shores of Puget Sound. The neighborhood, as is, may not be glamorous or pretty, critics say, but it is full of useful businesses.
"Help save a working neighborhood -- vote no," reads one sign in the district where the Commons would take shape.
"I really get worried when you start tearing things down," said Pat Fels, an architect who wants the city to declare a part of the Commons area a historic district of 1920's warehouses, thus preventing some of the planned demolition. "Once a neighborhood is gone, you can't bring it back."
Supporters say some of the old buildings would be allowed to stay. Further, they are offended that the Commons project has been cast as a pipe dream of the young and well-off.
"This will be viewed in the future as one of those enlightened decisions that make a city great," said Phyllis Lamphere, 73, who serves on the Commons board.
The stadium proposal, though resonant with some of the same themes as the Commons debate, has come down in one sense to whether or not the voter is a sports fan. The Mariners, though they are finally winning, are losing more than $10 million a year in the dreary Kingdome.
The team owners look at Denver, Baltimore and Cleveland, where sellout crowds revel as much in the evening light and urban ambiance as they do in the on-field theatrics, and envision their own field of dreams. Despite Seattle's reputation for rain, weather records show there would be just a handful of rained-out games every year during the season.
The public would pay $240 million, with the team's owners pledging $45 million for the stadium, which would be built near the Kingdome. Without a new stadium, the owners say they will put the team up for sale this year, and it is likely the Mariners then would leave Seattle.
What has hurt the stadium effort is the baseball strike, and a general ambivalence to raising taxes for millionaire players and owners.
"The stadium is not a giveaway to the owners," said Gary Locke, the King County Executive, who has emerged as the most outspoken proponent of the measure. "This will be our stadium. It will belong to us."
But Seattle, with its many cultural amenities, its mountain views and trendy restaurants, does not need baseball, say some opponents. The stadium proposal is a field of schemes, they say.
"Real cities don't grovel," said Nick Licata, a leader of the group called Citizens for More Important Things.
"I can live in a city without a professional baseball team," said Mr. Licata, who is originally from Cleveland. "But people will vote against this not because they dislike baseball, but because of the financing. There are too many private investors' hands in public pockets."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seattle residents vote on Tuesday on two projects, a baseball stadium and a park and housing development, that if approved will shape the city's future. One of the proposed sites for the stadium is a parking lot near the Kingdome, the dreary indoor stadium it would replace. (Therese Frare for The New York Times)
 
Map of Seattle, Washington
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (99%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: SEATTLE COMMONS (90%); SEATTLE MARINERS (55%); SEATTLE MARINERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (55%); SEATTLE MARINERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (99%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; STADIUMS; BASEBALL; HOUSING; REFERENDUMS CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); TRENDS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); SALES TAX (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); NATIONAL PARKS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); REFERENDUMS (72%); TAX INCREASES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY PAUL ALLEN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



360 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: California Refuses to Bail Out Los Angeles

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 17

 BODY:
The State Legislature this weekend took action that will help rescue Orange County from its fiscal crisis but will fall short of keeping neighboring Los Angeles County from laying off thousands of workers and shutting dozens of health clinics to close a huge budget gap.
In a contentious session that lasted until dawn on Saturday, the Legislature voted to allow both counties to reallocate hundreds of millions of dollars earmarked for transportation. But it defeated a package of additional measures that Los Angeles County officials said were crucial to its continued operations. 
 Most actions taken by the Legislature involved shifting county funds rather than paying out state money.
While Orange County officials, floundering in bankruptcy, rejoiced at their rescue, officials in Los Angeles braced for further cuts in services and predicted a health care crisis.
"This is the best news we've received," said an Orange County supervisor, Marian Bergeson. A Los Angeles County supervisor, Yvonne Braithwaite Burke, said, "This is very grim news."
The Legislature, which previously had resisted helping well-to-do Orange County out of its self-inflicted financial crisis, voted to allow the county to transfer $810 million from special accounts over the next 20 years. More than two-thirds of this would come from money previously allocated by county voters for transportation programs.
The county declared bankruptcy in December in the face of a $1.7 billion loss from risky investments. In June, voters overwhelmingly rejected bailing out their government with a half-cent increase in the county's 7.75-cent sales tax.
The refusal by the voters in a conservative, anti-tax bastion to shoulder their own burdens appeared to have paid off.
"This is going to tell a lot of people that they made the right decision, which is so very irresponsible and totally ironic," said Sherry Bebitch-Jeffe, a political scientist at the Claremont Graduate School. "This basically takes care of their problems. They've got a lot of breathing room."
In Los Angeles County, where a $1.6 billion budget shortfall was the result of years of accumulated debt and increased borrowing as well as a sluggish economy, the cuts had already begun in the hours before the Legislature acted.
On Friday, 5,200 health workers in the county's huge health care network received notices of termination or demotion in the largest payroll reduction in the county's history. Plans are under way to close 5 small hospitals known as comprehensive health centers and 28 neighborhood clinics as of Oct. 1.
The county had been hoping for both additional state and Federal aid to avert the layoffs and closures, but the actions by the Legislature this weekend dashed those hopes and meant that additional cuts in county services might also be needed.
"We're back to the drawing boards with very little time left," Sally Reed, the county's chief administrative officer, said on Saturday.
In the all-night session, the Legislature approved a transfer of $50 million in transit funds into the general fund and told the county it could borrow $100 million from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. But it voted down a package of other measures that officials said could have totaled as much as $135 million.
And some officials said the county might refuse to exercise the authorization to borrow $100 million in transportation funds, which they said would merely add to an accumulated debt burden and postpone difficult cuts.
"Already the county is heavily leveraged by using its property as collateral or privatizing its properties," Ms. Bebitch-Jeffe said. "They are in hock up to their ears already."
The county is also awaiting action by the Federal Government to free at least $178 million in additional money for the health care system. If this does not happen, Supervisor Mike Antonovich said, the survival of the Los Angeles County-University of Southern California Hospital, one of the largest in the nation, could be threatened.
The layoffs and clinic closures are sending Los Angeles County into a crisis that doctors and officials say is certain to cause chaos, overcrowding and the spread of disease. Although the cuts directly affect services to the poor, they say, their effects will quickly spread through the middle class and the wealthy of the county.
Hundreds of thousands of poor people, with no other medical care available, are expected to besiege the emergency rooms of public and private hospitals, which are required to treat all patients. Because routine care will be harder to obtain, many of these patients will be seriously ill, having allowed routine illnesses to become life-threatening.
Left untreated among many poor people, infectious diseases like tuberculosis are expected to become a greater threat to the population at large.
The flood of patients who cannot pay their bills is expected to force some emergency rooms to close, particularly in smaller private hospitals. That is likely to make ambulances have to travel farther, lengthening response times for everybody, regardless of socio-economic status.
The county has been struggling through the summer to find ways to keep its huge health care system functioning, seeking to restructure and streamline its delivery systems and form partnerships with private hospitals.
But stopgap measures will not be enough, said Burt Margolin, the county's health-crisis manager. "The health care system is losing in this one budget year 50 percent of its budget," he said recently. "We are facing the meltdown, or complete collapse, of its ability to rationally deliver services."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gloria Molina, a Los Angeles County supervisor, addressing county workers on Friday during a protest of plans to lay off thousands because of a financial squeeze. The Legislature later refused to give the county more money. Besides the layoffs, dozens of health clinics will be forced to close. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES COUNTY-UNIVERSITY (66%); STATE LEGISLATURE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES COUNTY (CALIF); ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (91%); COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (77%); SALES TAX (77%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



361 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Cities Told That Odds Aren't Great in Sports Deals

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 17

 BODY:
While officials across the country still salivate over the prospect of luring a professional sports franchise to their cities, a panel of economists meeting here last week said the benefits of a being a big league city were vastly overdrawn.
In a two-day session titled "Sports and Entertainment: Economic Development Boon or Boondoggle," municipal officials gathered from across the Southeast were told that the competition among cities to attract sports teams with the promise of new stadiums and tax breaks was misguided. 
 The economic spillovers in terms of jobs and new revenue are not much more substantial than "a new branch of Macy's moving into town," said Andrew Zimbalist, an economist and professor at Smith College.
The sports dollar is part of the total entertainment and leisure expenditures in metropolitan areas, said Mr. Zimbalist and others at the conference sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. They cited studies that showed that a sports team did little more than shift dollars from other leisure activities, and generated no significant increase in overall spending.
On the other hand, the economists acknowledged that municipal spending to attract or keep professional sports teams had certain "intangible" effects, including a heightened national profile for a city and a rallying point for residents.
"Our psychic investment in sports is disproportionate to its economic importance to a city," said Roger G. Noll, a professor of economics and public policy at Stanford University. "Few people know the name of the manager and sales people at their Macy's department store, but everybody knows the name of the manager of the sports team and the players," he said. "Why make the phony economic development arguments when the value of sports teams is clear from the pleasure they provide."
Dick Kravitz, the president of the City Council of Jacksonville, Fla., whose Jaguars began play this year as a National Football League expansion team, said that the city hopes the team's presence will sharpen Jacksonville's image as a place to live and do business.
Jacksonville largely underwrote the $135 million refurbishing of its Gator Bowl, complete with luxury suites and exclusive club-level seats for season-ticket buyers. City officials have been criticized for giving the team's owners financial incentives.
But Mr. Kravitz said that in two decades of the city's trying to attract a professional sports team, a host of teams had courted Jacksonville simply to wrest more money or perks or a better stadium from the city they finally chose as their home.
Frank R. Nero, Jacksonville's economic development adviser, said: "We were played like a Stradivarius, and it left a bitter taste in our mouths. But we never gave up, and we know that getting the team has changed Jacksonville's destiny forever. The advertisement nationally we get from this as a city couldn't be bought."
Also attending the conference were representatives of St. Petersburg, Fla., which built its Suncoast Dome in 1991 before the city had landed a professional team. Not until 1998 will the city become home to a professional baseball team; in the meantime, said Connie Kone, a City Council member, the stadium has cost the city up to $8 million a year in interest on construction loans and is running a deficit because of a meager schedule of concerts and tractor-pull events.
"The tax increases we had to pass to support it actually drove some residents and businesses out of the city," she said.
Frederick Klein, the sports columnist for The Wall Street Journal who was among the panelists at the forum, also noted that because of the proliferation of luxury suites and demand for committed season-ticket purchases, the number of general admission tickets was shrinking and their cost was increasing. He said there was a "gentrification" of the game going on even as it pulled more and more money from public coffers to sustain a professional team.
Mr. Noll and others said that some cities, including Baltimore with its Camden Yards and Cleveland with its new Jacobs Field, had made the stadiums a part of a larger downtown renewal. If such stadiums actually succeed in spurring renewal and creating "the political will" for such redevelopment, Mr. Noll said, the fact that their direct economic effects are insignificant would be irrelevant.
"But a broader development scheme is still no guarantee of economic benefits," Mr. Noll said. "What happens when the Orioles start losing and the novelty of the aquarium and science centers nearby wear off? When the novelty fans are gone, will your hardcore fans be enough to sustain the area?"
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (69%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; URBAN AREAS; STADIUMS; TAXATION SPORTS & RECREATION (94%); SPORTS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); CITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SALES FORCE (64%); RETAILERS (64%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (62%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD ROGER G NOLL (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



362 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Sir Grahame Clark; Archeologist, 88, Studied Stone Age

 BODY:
Sir Grahame Clark, an archeologist and authority on prehistoric Europe, died on Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 88.
Sir Grahame was knighted for his work in 1992. He was master of Peterhouse College at Cambridge University from 1973 to 1980; Disney Professor of Archeology at Cambridge from 1952 to 1974, and head of the department of archeology and anthropology there from 1956 to 1961 and from 1968 to 1971. 
 In 1990 he received a $120,000 Dutch award, the Erasmus Prize of the Netherlands Foundation, for increasing knowledge of prehistoric Europe through "opening new methods in his field by integrating ecology, anthropology and economics in the classic study of prehistory."
The Times of London said on Thursday that Sir Grahame, an expert on the Mesolithic period, "helped to develop European archeology away from a preoccupation with stone-tool typology and toward a broader understanding of how early societies exploited their environment."
The Mesolithic period, or Middle Stone Age, began when the last glacial period ended more than 10,000 years ago. In Europe, Mesolithic cultures lived on almost until 3,000 B.C.
Sir Grahame's books ranged from "The Mesolithic Settlement of Northern Europe" (1936) to "Aspects of Prehistory" (California, 1970), "Symbols of Excellence: Precious Materials as Expressions of Status" (Cambridge, 1986), "Economic Prehistory" (Cambridge, 1989) and "Space, Time and Man: A Prehistorian's View" (1992).
Sir Grahame, born in the county of Kent, received a doctorate and two other degrees at Cambridge.
He is survived by his wife of 59 years, the former Gwladys Maude White; a son, Philip, of Trumpington, and six grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); ENGLAND (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (95%); ARCHAEOLOGY (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); 

PERSON: CLARK, GRAHAME (SIR) GRAHAME N CLARK JR (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



363 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: For Next Generation, New Kunstlers

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN 

 BODY:
Like many of his classmates, Randolph Scott-McLaughlin (Harvard Law School '78) headed straight to New York after graduation. But instead of following his friends down the centuries-old crimson brick road to Wall Street, he took a detour at Union Square to confront one of the founding lawyers of an unusual law center.
"I went right up to him and said, 'Bill, you're the best trial lawyer in the country, and you owe me the obligation to teach me what you know,' " Mr. Scott-McLaughlin announced to William M. Kunstler. Never one to overlook an accolade, Mr. Kunstler laughed and took him under his wing. 
 And for the next nine years, Mr. Scott-McLaughlin, as a fledgling lawyer for the Center for Constitutional Rights, went on a wild legal ride. He helped Mr. Kunstler win the acquittal of two American Indian Movement supporters who faced the death penalty in a Nebraska murder trial. They represented a former Black Panther charged with murdering a police officer. They sued Bernhard H. Goetz on behalf of one of the men he shot in the subway.
Mr. Kunstler, who died on Labor Day at 76, was the country's best-known and most reviled radical lawyer, but he neither worked in a vacuum nor left one behind. No individual practitioner is expected to play the idiosyncratic, oversized role he inhabited for 35 years. But scores of lawyers have been doing similar, less visible work all along. Scores more are standing in the wings. For both directly and indirectly, Mr. Kunstler inspired generations to take up public interest work and to defend clients whom most other lawyers would shun.
And so it came to pass that Mr. Kunstler begat Ronald L. Kuby, 39, his foremost disciple for the last 13 years, to whom he taught his skills as a trial lawyer and master media manipulator.
And through his association with the Center for Constitutional Rights, which presses Federal and international human rights lawsuits, Mr. Kunstler also begat successors like Mr. Scott-McLaughlin, 42, who became a civil rights law professor at Pace University. There, Mr. Scott-McLaughlin in turn begat the Social Justice Center, where his students, the so-called Randy's Raiders, work on cases involving racial violence and voting rights discrimination.
And so the next generation is being groomed to make headlines in the 21st century. One former Randy's Raider, for example, specializes in pursuing police brutality lawsuits in Federal court. And a former intern of Mr. Kunstler so fervently believes, as he did, in fighting racism through criminal defense work that she has already helped represent rapists and batterers.
But though Mr. Kunstler's offspring and near relatives in the law are numerous, their survival is far more difficult than his.
True, civil rights litigators can more readily make their cases on a vast foundation of law that has evolved in areas like criminal defense, housing, immigration, welfare and sex discrimination, where virtually none existed in the 1950's and 60's, when Mr. Kunstler was beginning to make his way.
But times are economically grim for young lawyers. Burdened with $100,000 law school debts, they cannot afford to set up their own shops, as in Mr. Kunstler's mold. And there are almost no jobs at institutions like Legal Aid and Legal Services, which are trembling on the brink of extinction.
And for lawyers of a liberal to radical left persuasion, the political climate is overcast by hostility from both Congress and the electorate. In the combative days of Mr. Kunstler's forays into the Deep South and at the Chicago Seven trial, he, at least, was borne aloft by thousands of students and civil rights supporters -- scarcely the faintest echo of whom can be heard by lawyers in the 90's.
But a relative handful of lawyers serving poor communities and unpopular clients soldier on. "And they're even more energized now: they think the work is really on their shoulders because there's no more Bill," said Haywood Burns, a professor at the City University of New York Law School, which was established 13 years ago to train lawyers for public interest work.
In contrast to the private lawyers who will pick up one or two "good deed" cases along the way, there are dozens of lawyers in the New York region alone -- many associated with special-interest law centers -- whose practice regularly consists of standing up for despised criminal defendants or pressing civil rights cases. In criminal defense, the more frequently mentioned names include Leonard Weinglass, Lynne Stewart, Michael Warren, Ramsey Clark, Mr. Kuby, and now Kevin Doyle, the new chief of New York's Capital Defender Office, which coordinates the representation of death penalty defendants.
Among the prominent civil rights litigators are Steven Banks, Juan Figueroa, Ellen Yaroshevsky, Michael Ratner, Janet Benshoof, Margaret Fung, Beatrice Dohrn and Mr. Scott-McLaughlin.
Then there is James Michael Lenahan. Who? A White Plains practitioner and one-time Randy's Raider, class of '92, Mr. Lenahan has already addressed Mr. Scott-McLaughlin's students about how it is possible to set up your own law office, work 18 hours a day, make no money and catch catnaps with a smile on your face, knowing you have caught the Government in another compromising position. "I know I'm going to Heaven, but if I have to put a dime in the gate, I'm in trouble," Mr. Lenahan said.
The civil rights cases Mr. Lenahan pursues in state and Federal court have made him an outcast, if not an outright pariah, in his own family. Generations of his relatives have been police officers, and Mr. Lenahan was expected to become a prosecutor. Instead, Mr. Lenahan became a general practitioner who specializes in pressing police brutality lawsuits. He came to law school after a 12-year career as a captain in the Army, where he specialized in integrated weapons systems.
Although he still holds some conservative views, Mr. Lenahan, 40, considers his work with Mr. Scott-McLaughlin to have been an eye-opener. "I ran into a number of police officers who downright lied and it made me furious, because as a commissioned officer, I had sworn the same oath they did to uphold the Constitution. But I meant it then, and I do now."
Ablaze with his not-so-youthful idealism, Mr. Lenahan says he feels that he is uniquely qualified to fight injustice: "I'd been a part of the establishment for so long I know how it works."
The financial barricades to maintaining such an ideal-focused practice are almost insurmountable, particularly as the lawyer develops family responsibilities. Mr. Lenahan says that although he grosses $100,000, his overhead -- secretary, paralegal, partner, rent, library -- annually leaves him with a net of $10,000.
Mr. Kuby, who is continuing the now one-man firm of Kunstler & Kuby, said bluntly: "In this climate, you can't do good and do well at the same time."
David Tykulsker, a highly regarded labor lawyer in Newark, says he tries to support himself by seeking a mixture of cases, including workers' compensation claims and union work. With that foundation, he pursues class action suits on labor and environmental issues without pay, hoping that a favorable decision years down the road will yield him a fee.
To survive, many lawyers may have to let economics drive their political sensibilities, Mr. Tykulsker said. "If you look through civil rights reports, you'll see a preponderance of age discrimination cases," he said. "Does this mean age discrimination is a more serious problem than sex or race discrimination? Of course not. But older managers, who are usually white and male, can afford lawyers."
Nonetheless, in recent years, New York University and Rutgers, among other schools, have established programs in public interest law. Even New York City's corporate launching center has had a change of heart. "Columbia Law School used to be the Darth Vader of law schools," said Franklin Siegel, a civil liberties litigator. "But now it's become so much more humanitarian." All Columbia law students must perform 40 hours of community service legal work.
Still, law students worry about finances. Daniella Korotzer, 27, who expects to be sworn in as a member of the New York bar today, half expects the creditors to start breaking her legs any minute: $2,000 student loan bills are arriving monthly, and she has taken a job paying $31,000 a year with Stephen A. Somerstein, a criminal defense lawyer in the Kunstler mode.
But the way Ms. Korotzer sees things, she was born to this work: the first time she went to jail was as a fetus, when her pregnant mother was arrested during a demonstration against the Vietnam War. She majored in women's studies while working her way through the State University at Albany, where she threw herself into a bevy of issues and, yes, got herself arrested.
Although she can rattle off a list of political causes dear to her heart, she prefers criminal defense work to civil litigation, because of its comparatively faster pace. That decision has already led to some dark nights of the soul, for she, a feminist, has helped defend men accused of rape and domestic violence.
During her last year at Northeastern University School of Law, she was an intern with Kunstler & Kuby. Mr. Kunstler was one of the bravest men she had ever met, she said: "I've seen him go to court, knowing he was facing a contempt citation, with a toothbrush stuck in his suit pocket -- for all the world to see, of course."
He ignited a powerful flame. During her job interview with him, she recalled: "Bill assumed that your legal skills were up to par and he had no interest in looking at my writing sample. He simply asked if I had the heart and courage to take the types of cases he takes. I said yes. And that's all he needed to know."
She paused and started laughing. "And then he yelled out to Ron, 'Do you think she's of high enough moral character to work in this office?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: William M. Kunstler was the country's best-known and most reviled radical lawyer, but he neither worked in a vacuum nor left one behind. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "A Look at Four Disciples: In Kunstler's Footsteps"

Ronald L. Kuby/Kunstler's Foremost Disciple
Age: 39
Specialty: Criminal Defense
Quote: "There are people willing to do this kind of work, but we have lost a giant and there's no getting around that."
 
Daniella Korotzer/Was Intern at Firm of Kunstler & Kuby
Age: 27
Specialty: Criminal Defense
Quote: "Bill taught me never to bow to a judge, a prosecutor or another attorney but to stand by your client. And that was a way of doing justice."
 
Randolph Scott McLaughlin/Worked With Kunstler for Nine Years
Age: 42
Specialty: Professor, practitioner of civil rights litigation
Quote: "Bill said, 'Never believe your press. When you go home, put out the garbage. You can't exist 24 hours a day as this famous lawyer type.' "
 
James Michael Lenahan/Studied Law With McLaughlin After Army Career
Age: 40
Specialty: Civil rights litigator
Quote: "Randy taught me that the people who can't afford lawyers are those who need them the most."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS (56%); CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS (56%); CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LAWYERS (92%); MURDER (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); ACQUITTAL (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); US LABOR DAY (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: HOFFMAN, JAN; KUNSTLER, WILLIAM M; KUBY, RONALD L; SCOTT-MCLAUGHIN, RANDOLPH; KOROTZER, DANIELLA; LENAHAN, JAMES MICHAEL RANDOLPH SCOTT (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



364 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Traveling to Europe, With 2 Trade Groups Paying

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 17

 BODY:
On his first trip overseas as the Governor of New York, George E. Pataki will travel to Hungary and Italy in search of business and family ties.
Mr. Pataki plans to tour the Hungarian village of Debrecen, which his paternal grandparents left to come to America. And Mr. Pataki's mother, making her first trip overseas, will accompany him to the Italian town of Reggio Calabria, where her father was born. 
 The Governor will meet with corporate and political leaders and is taking along his economic development director, Charles Gargano, to promote business ties. The trip, which begins on Friday, is being paid for by Hungarian and Italian chambers of commerce.
"It's going to be just a very moving personal experience," Mr. Pataki said, noting that he has never visited either the Hungarian town of his paternal grandparents or the Italian town of his maternal grandfather.
In laying the groundwork for the trip, Mr. Pataki has sought to contact relatives in and around his grandfather's ancestral home in Debrecen.
Mr. Pataki's family, which settled in Peekskill, north of New York City, kept in close contact with Hungarian relatives until the 1956 uprising that was quashed by Soviet tanks, he said.
Mr. Pataki visited Hungary in the early 1970's and said he does not remember the trip fondly.
"It was before the collapse of the Iron Curtain," he recalled. "I loved it on the one hand, but hated it on the other because of the horrible system and the Russian soldiers everywhere. I just wanted to leave as soon as I could."
Hungarian officials hope the trip will promote tourism and business investment, particularly in the telecommunications and energy industries in the poor northeastern section of the country where Mr. Pataki's roots are, Peter Gomori, director of the Hungarian Tourist Board, said.
The Pataki administration asked the Hungarian-American Chamber of Commerce of New York and New Jersey to help set up the trip, and it was happy to oblige, Monika Elling, the chamber's president, said. The chamber's 150 members, businesses in both Hungary and the United States, stand to benefit from a strengthening of economic ties, she said.
Neither she nor Mr. Pataki had an estimate of the trip's cost. Ms. Elling said the chamber's contacts with travel agents will make the trip much cheaper than it would have been if organized by people who dealt with Hungary infrequently.
But the head of New York State Common Cause said the arrangement raised ethical questions.
"A chamber of commerce doesn't spend thousands of dollars for no reason," said Andrew Greenblatt, the group's executive director. "I don't know what that reason is, but I don't want any special interest to have that kind of influence over our Governor."
Mr. Greenblatt said the state should pay if Mr. Pataki can justify the trip as in the state's interests. The Governor should pay for portions that concern family business, he said.
Zenia Mucha, Mr. Pataki's communications director, said that while the trip will benefit the state, the administration did not want taxpayers to foot the bill.
Mr. Pataki's tentative schedule calls for him to be in Hungary until Sept. 27, when he is to leave for Rome. He plans to spend a day in Rome and then travel to Reggio Calabria, in southern Italy.
In addition to his mother, Mr. Pataki will travel with his wife, Libby; Teddy, one of the couple's four children; Mr. Gargano; Tim Carey, a Pataki aide; Ms. Mucha; another press aide, and two security guards.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (95%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; ITALY; HUNGARY; HUNGARY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (95%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS GRANDPARENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TOURISM (65%); TRENDS (61%); ETHICS (50%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) GEORGE E PATAKI (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



365 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Senator D'Amato's Chance

 BODY:
The House leadership proposes to cut the earned-income tax credit -- a Federal rebate to low-paid workers -- by about $20 billion, or 15 percent, over seven years. The cuts would undermine the worthy policy of the Clinton Administration to "make work pay" by using tax policy to assure that minimum-wage workers earn enough to lift their families out of poverty.
The House plan is misguided, but Senate Republicans are considering something far worse. William Roth Jr., the new chairman of the Finance Committee, proposes whacking over $60 billion out of the tax credit. That would devastate the smartest anti-poverty weapon Congress has ever devised. 
 The credit will add up to $3,560 next year to the take-home pay of low-wage workers. The credit will be phased out for families earning more than $11,620. The House G.O.P. proposes to include, for the first time, Social Security income as part of a family's earnings. On its own that may appear to be a reasonable provision. But it really puts the Republicans in the callous position of advocating lower taxes on Social Security income for non-poor elderly and higher taxes for the working poor. The House proposal would end the credit for four million childless workers and phase out the credit faster as a worker's income rises, thereby discouraging workers from going after higher-paying jobs.
What Mr. Roth has in mind is even worse than the House proposal. Under current law, the income threshold at which the credit begins to phase out is adjusted for inflation. Under Mr. Roth's proposal, inflation protection would be stripped away, reducing millions of additional working Americans to poverty-level incomes. He would also reduce the size of the credit. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal advocacy group, calculates that a family with two children earning $15,000 would, under the Roth plan, pay about $1,750 more in taxes by the year 2002.
If that same family lives in New York State, however, its predicament would be far worse. Taxes would rise by more than $2,000 in 2002. Here is a chance for Alfonse D'Amato, New York's Republican Senator on the Finance Committee, to defend the state's economic interests by protecting the tax credit from the deep cuts favored by Senator Roth.
Almost one million New York families depend on the credit to stay out of poverty. Every one of these families includes someone who works. The Republicans are supposed to be the party that encourages work. But they have come up with a plan to tax away the incentive to chose employment over welfare.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK'S REPUBLICAN (61%); FINANCE COMMITTEE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK'S REPUBLICAN (61%); FINANCE COMMITTEE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EDITORIALS; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; TAX CREDITS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POVERTY RATES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CHILDREN (76%); LIBERALISM (72%); 

PERSON: D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); ROTH, WILLIAM V (SEN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



366 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
THE POWER OF THE MAYORALTY
For months now, Mayor Giuliani has complained that he has no control over New York City's Board of Education -- and the purse strings for a quarter of the city's budget. But in the tumult of events over the last week, he has showed just how much power the mayoralty has. Even as the Mayor has wielded more influence than the law gives him, he has made it equally clear that, for him, that power is not enough. Using his bully pulpit with the usual vigor and his ties to the teachers union with increasing transparency, the Mayor forced the board to back off its threat, which loomed all summer, to lay off teachers to meet the Mayor's budget goals. News analysis. [B3.]
 
SUSPECT IN BROOKLYN RAPES IS ARRESTED
A man who the police believe is responsible for sexually assaulting or attacking several women in brownstone Brooklyn neighborhoods was arrested early Saturday morning as he was about to attack another woman, the police said. The man, Tony Harrison, 26, of 418 St. John's Place, was under surveillance by the police and, they said, was seen following a woman into an apartment building on Union Street in Park Slope shortly before he was arrested. [B3.]
 
HOW NONEDUCATOR COULD BE CHANCELLOR
The State Education Commissioner said that he was open to having a qualified noneducator become schools chancellor in New York City, but he declined to say whether Richard Ravitch, the top contender, fit that bill. The Commissioner, Richard P. Mills, has final say on whether someone without an educational background can become the top administrator of a public school system. [B3.]
 
BLOCK PARTY ENDS IN SPRAY OF BULLETS
The block party in Bushwick, Brooklyn, on Saturday was one last end-of-summer bash for the children of Halsey Street. And then, as the party was winding down about 10:10 P.M., there was the flash of guns, a spray of bullets, blood and panic. When the pandemonium subsided, two men, including a bystander, had been killed and four other people, including an off-duty transit police officer, had been wounded. [B5.]
 
OFFICER SUSPENDED AFTER WOMAN DIES
A city police officer was suspended after an early morning fight at a Washington Heights bar left a woman dead, struck with a bullet from the officer's gun. The authorities have not determined whether the off-duty officer fired the gun or whether it accidentally discharged during the dispute. The woman was a bystander, the police said. [B5.]
 
ARMED ROBBERY AT MIDTOWN RESTAURANT
The crocodiles and skeletons were fake, but at least one gun was real at the Jekyll and Hyde Club in mid-Manhattan when three robbers tied up two employees and dashed away with $25,000 to $30,000 in cash, the police said. No one was hurt in the robbery at the restaurant and bar. [B2.]
 
REGION
 
RISING COST OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS
After state budget battles led the State University of New York to increase tuition for the third time in five years, students who chose public education to save money are finding they have to take out loans, or find jobs, anyway. As the school year began this month, the long lines snaking outside financial aid offices on SUNY campuses like Stony Brook included many students from families that never believed they would need help. [B6.]
 
PATAKI TO SEEK BUSINESS TIES ABROAD
On his first trip overseas as the Governor of New York, George E. Pataki will travel to Hungary and Italy in search of business and family ties. Mr. Pataki plans to tour the Hungarian village of Debrecen, which his paternal grandparents left to come to America. And Mr. Pataki's mother, making her first trip overseas, will accompany him to the Italian town of Reggio Calabria, where her father was born. The Governor will meet with corporate and political leaders and is taking his economic development director to promote business ties. [B6.]
 
RAIN FINALLY FALLS ON A THIRSTY REGION
It slanted down from the lowering sky like showers of silver javelins. It lashed dusty windowpanes, beat tattoos on parched leaves and darkened the bone-dry earth. After months of deepening drought in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, a soaking, drenching, cooling rain fell for 12 hours -- 1 to 2 inches in most areas -- bringing nourishment to wilting vegetation, a trickle of hope for sunken reservoirs and welcome relief from a monotonous skein of sunbaked days. [B4.]

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: JEKYLL & HYDE CLUB INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ROBBERY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); TEACHER UNIONS (75%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (74%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); DEATHS (60%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



367 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Fierce Storm Leaves St. Thomas Reeling

BYLINE: By MARIA SACCHETTI 

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE AMALIE, V.I., Sept. 18

 BODY:
Edward Agundez and his family fled to the bathroom when the living room windows in their apartment exploded at 11 P.M. on Friday. They spent the next six hours in darkness, with his wife and two sons huddling in the bathtub while he pressed his body against the bathroom door as Hurricane Marilyn raged through St. Thomas.
When the family emerged at 6:30 A.M., they could see into their neighbor's living room through a downed wall. The storm had torn down their ceiling and ripped a hallway closet door from its hinges and tossed it into a room several feet away. 
 "I really thought were were going to die," Mr. Agundez, an immigration official who lives in the Watergate apartments outside town, said today. "My younger son was crying. I would just tell him that everything was O.K. I was so scared, but telling them would just make matters worse."
The Agundezes' shock and disbelief as they tried to salvage what little they could from their waterfront apartment was repeated hundreds of times on this Caribbean island, where people lack electricity, running water and telephones.
The indiscriminate storm, which many residents initially underestimated, cut a swath of surreal destruction across the island, which has 50,000 people and is located about 50 miles east of Puerto Rico. Suffering less damage were the other two islands in the United States Virgin Island territory, St. Croix and St. John, as well as eastern Puerto Rico.
The hurricane was keeping away from land today as it moved through the Atlantic, well to the east of the United States mainland, The Associated Press reported.
Here in Charlotte Amalie, the capital city of the United States Virgin Islands, and nearby, winds were reported to have reached 130 miles per hour in some areas. About 80 percent of the houses were either lost or damaged.
Dozens of boats, many of them 30 to 50 feet long, had been swept from their moorings onto the streets and against buildings. Several cars and trucks had toppled in parking lots, and street lights had been plucked from wires and poles.
At Cyril E. King International Airport, light airplanes and seaplanes lay in heaps of tangled metal beside the runway. The airport remained open for military traffic, for shuttling emergency workers to St. Croix, for receiving emergency provisions and for a few light planes.
The Virgin Islands Territorial Emergency Management Agency received unconfirmed reports of eight people killed in the storm: three people in St. Thomas and five people in St. John, said the agency's planning director, Roy Ward. More than 185 people were reported injured at St. Thomas Hospital, which remained without water and electricity.
The fifth-floor pediatrics ward was shorn off shortly after nurses evacuated the area around midnight on Friday. Several patients were sleeping on mattresses on hospital floors today.
"The glass was bending in and out, and the ceiling was shaking," said one patient who was evacuated, Vennisha Wilson, 20, of Charlotte Amalie. She was sleeping on a mattress and receiving painkillers while she waited for treatment for a sickle-cell disorder.
"I haven't seen my doctor since the storm," she said.
Other buildings, like the Alex A. Farrelly Federal Building and the Legislature, apparently suffered little damage. But winds smashed the roof and walls of the Nisky Center, which contains stores, and some government offices.
Part of the hillside house of Gov. Roy L. Schneider was destroyed. But in a telephone interview today, the Governor was upbeat.
"I am proud of the U.S. Virgin Islands and its residents," he said. "They are hardy and will work hard together assisting each other."
He said he was grateful for the aid of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. "The President and FEMA's response was immediate," he said. "Before the hurricane hit on Thursday, I had in my hands a promise that the resources of our nation's emergency agency were at our disposal. In fact, teams of FEMA's disatster experts were already on their way."
Like a scythe, the storm turned the lush, green hillsides into brown, leafless slopes. Houses without windows or roofs stared darkly from the hills, surrounded by crumpled aluminum, wooden planks and chunks of concrete.
A sense of helplessness and defeat was expressed by many on the island, which was beginning to bounce back from Hurricane Hugo, which blasted the region on Sept. 17, 1989.
"My businesses are completely gone," said Jose Lavilla, who owns a catering business and has contracts with several hotels. "No tourists are going to come here. I'm homeless and unemployed."
Carole St. George, a dental hygenist, with tears coming quickly to her eyes, said her experience with Hurricane Hugo had led her to fear the recovery to come.
"I promised I wouldn't get upset if I was alive yesterday," she said. "But it's all the months and months without phones and no electricity. You can't take a bath. People stand in line for bags off ice. You see people who have lost everything and then you see people who loot and take advantage."
The police and the National Guard reported "small pockets of youth" looting some areas, local emergency officials said.
The police did little to stop people from calmly picking through the spoils under the crushed red roof of the Grand Union supermarket. People filed gingerly through the debris to take canned goods, pet food or nonprescription medicine. One man left with two cheese graters.
Gary Berne, a developer, returned to his house, high on a hill in Frydenhog, to find his roof smashed and water and dirt in his $600,000 home. But his four dogs were fine, and the portable generator that supplies water and electricity was running.
"Tell my wife I'm fine, I'll get ahold of her and we have no house," he said, his voice catching in his throat. "Tell her Hugo was a joke by comparison."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hurricane Marilyn battered St. Thomas, in the United States Virgin Islands, last weekend, damaging 80 percent of the houses. On the island, Robert Blaise and Sonia Goodet salvaged their belongings yesterday. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGIN ISLANDS (US); ST THOMAS (US VIRGIN ISLANDS); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE MARILYN HURRICANES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); AIRPORTS (84%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); WEATHER (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); PEDIATRICS (73%); IMMIGRATION (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: SACCHETTI, MARIA EDWARD AGUNDEZ (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995



368 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON DEFENDS INCOME TAX CREDIT AGAINST G.O.P. CUT

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: ASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Casting himself as a defender of the working class and the American work ethic, President Clinton today sharply attacked Republican proposals to curb tax breaks for low-income families, warning that he might veto any such plan as "inconsistent with those basic, bedrock values this country should be standing for."
At the same time, Mr. Clinton praised the welfare overhaul efforts of Senate Republicans and said he believed Congress and the Administration would eventually compromise on an overall budget agreement, though probably not before the start of the next fiscal year on Oct. 1. 
 Mr. Clinton's comments, in a brief Oval Office interview with The New York Times suggested by the White House, amounted to the spearhead of an Administration-wide offensive against House and Senate proposals to limit the earned-income tax credit, a Federal rebate intended to help low-income workers keep more of their wages. Mr. Clinton expanded the credit significantly as part of his first budget in 1993.
He made the same point at a $1,000-a-plate fund-raising dinner in Philadelphia tonight. "We believe no one should be taxed into poverty," the President said.
The earned-income tax credit has a far lower political profile than popular behemoths like Medicare, and its fate is almost certain to become entangled in more sweeping budget measures Mr. Clinton already opposes. But Mr. Clinton has long cited the expansion of the credit as a major underappreciated accomplishment of his Administration, and attacking the Republican proposals lets him not only defend the interests of a core Democratic constituency, but also highlight Republican plans to cut taxes for the affluent.
Republicans contend that the tax credit program is subject to significant waste and abuse and that families earning well above the supposed limit -- in 1996, about $28,500 for a family with two or more children -- manage to benefit from the credit, in part because Social Security and pension benefits are not included in the limits. The House measure would count such income, and thus reduce eligibility for the credit.
"It's basically an income redistribution scheme that this Administration has greatly expanded, in my opinion, without really looking at its costs," said Senator Don Nickles, an Oklahoma Republican and co-sponsor of the principal Senate proposal.
The President said he, too, was committed to weeding out abuses, but the White House said the Senate Republican proposal for curtailing the benefit would increase taxes for 18 million taxpayers in 2002, by an average of $655. Mr. Clinton said that ran counter to the Republicans' professed desire to lower taxes.
"If there are problems in the administration of the program, let's fix those," Mr. Clinton said. "But let's don't raise taxes on working people while we're lowering taxes on everybody else in the country. It just does not make sense, and it is inconsistent with rewarding work and responsibility and strengthening families. It's inconsistent with those basic bedrock values this country should be standing for now."
About 45 million people benefit from the program, the Administration estimates, including about 15 million families and about 4.5 million people without children to whom the benefit was extended for the first time under the Clinton plan. The Republicans would eliminate the benefit for individuals and reduce it, to varying degrees, for families. Under current law, the income threshold at which the credit is phased out is adjusted for inflation, and the Senate proposal would also eliminate that provision, which the Administration contends would punish millions of workers.
In all, about 35 percent of American families benefit from the credit, and last year, 24,000 families with incomes above $50,000 a year got some benefit. That figure is expected to rise to 36,000 by next year, according to Congressional estimates. Before the 1993 expansion, the program was expected to cost about $20 billion next year; without changes, it is now expected to cost about $25 billion in 1996.
The program began in 1975 under the Ford Administration and was expanded by both George Bush and Ronald Reagan, a bipartisan legacy that Mr. Clinton took pains to point out today.
"You know, President Reagan said it was the best anti-poverty program ever devised," Mr. Clinton said.
Mr. Clinton spoke out today because the proposed changes in the tax credit are part of a much larger tax bill that the House Ways and Means Committee began considering tonight. The measure includes dozens of changes in the taxation of businesses, but it would not appreciably change the taxes owed by most individuals. The vote on the changes in the tax credit will probably be on Tuesday or Wednesday.
Mr. Clinton said cutting the tax credit was particularly inconsistent with bipartisan efforts to encourage work and reduce the welfare rolls.
"I think it will substantially undermine our ability to move people from welfare to work," Mr. Clinton said. "And more importantly, it will make a statement that we're backing off of this value that we want people to succeed as workers and as parents. And if -- that if they're willing to work, no matter how meager their incomes, we want to lift them above poverty, if they work full time."
The White House contends that counting Social Security benefits as part of the income limits could have harsh effects on older poor people, who often care for grandchildren born to single mothers.
Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, a sponsor of the House measure to reduce the credit, said he had no quarrel with making it available to those with incomes below about $11,600 a year. But he said he wanted to reverse the growth that Mr. Clinton undertook and to count Social Security and interest income toward the eligibility limits.
"We're trying to take what basically was originally a Republican program and smooth it out a little bit and just bring it down a little bit," he said. "I think this should include all your resources. If you have $2,000 a year from a C.D. account, that should certainly be included."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton yesterday attacked Republican proposals to curtail the earned-income tax credit for low-income families, saying he might veto such a plan as inconsistent with "basic, bedrock values." He met with a senior adviser, George Stephanopoulos, background, and others in the Oval Office. (David Scull/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "ROUNDUP: About the Earned-Income Tax Credit"
 HISTORY -- Enacted in 1975 to give adults with children incentives to work instead of relying on welfare. For those who qualify, it provides a tax credit of 7 to 40 cents on each dollar earned. The criteria for who qualifies were expanded in 1986, 1990 and again in 1993.
 WHO IS ELIGIBLE -- On average, 35 percent of all families with children take advantage of the credit in any given year. Here are the broad criteria for receiving the credit.

 	 	 		Income must	Maximum	Group	be less than	1995 credit	 	 	 	Families with two or more children	$25,296	$2,528	Families with one child	$23,755	$2,038	Families with no children	$9,000	$306	 Through the end of July, the Internal Revenue Service had received 18.5 million claims and paid out $20.6 billion for the year, with the average claim about $1,113. Under the 1996 benefit schedule, the credit would lift about 4.5 million Americans above the poverty line, according to the Urban Institute.
 HOW IT WORKS -- Taypayers must fill out a one-page form to accompany a completed 1040 or 1040A form. The refund can be received either in a lump sum or spread out over a year.
 EXCEPTIONS -- In 1994, 24,000 families with incomes over $50,000 received a credit. In 1996, the figure is expected to rise to 36,000. Most of these families get the bulk of their income from Social Security or private pensions. The credit is also available to low-income workers who do not have children. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OKLAHOMA REPUBLICAN&CO (69%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; WAGES AND SALARIES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; TAX CREDITS TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); ETHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); TAX REFORM (74%); MEDICARE (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); FUNDRAISING (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



369 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: An Island Paradise Lost As Storm Leaves Ruins

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: ST. THOMAS, V.I., Sept. 18

 BODY:
Bjorn Anderson, a hotel tennis director, spent today maneuvering his mini-van through roads partly blocked by fallen utility poles and tilted 40-foot yachts to take groups of tourists to the airport and away from the ruins Hurricane Marilyn left on St. Thomas.
On a hillside once covered with thick foliage, he found new ocean views between bare trees. He pointed out mounds of debris where $300,000 homes used to be. 
 "Oh, this is just sick," said Mr. Anderson, who works at the Grand Palazzo Hotel, as disabled power cables hit his windshield. "Nothing, nothing left."
At least eight people died in the storm and several hundred were injured. There are no official damage estimates yet, but it is obvious to Federal officials that among the three United States Virgin Islands, St. Thomas fared the worst. St. Thomas is smaller than St. Croix but is the territory's tourism and shopping center and its capital. The economic impact is expected to be huge on this American territory that depends on tourism, a $1-billion-a-year industry, for two-thirds of its economy. Many hotels have been severely damaged and cruise ships, which deliver 1.2 million tourists a year, have suspended operations.
Recently, tourism ads for the mainland pointedly noted how Hurricane Luis left the United States Virgin Islands, which also include St. John, unscathed a few weeks ago, but seriously damaged St. Maartin and other islands.
"We were looking forward to a great season because of the misfortune of the other islands," said Mac Groetzinger, owner of Mackenzies Harborview in Red Hook, on the eastern side of St. Thomas.
In a telephone conversation via satellite today, the Federal Emergency Management Agency director, James Lee Witt, told President Clinton, "Sir, we have a mess down here."
More than half the structures here, mostly built of wood, concrete and corrugated steel, were destroyed and 30 percent were seriously damaged. There is no power or telephone and no one is guessing how soon either will be restored.
Penny Feuerzeig, executive editor of the Virgin Islands Daily News, said the storm would be "devastating to tourism and in terms of insurance rates. After Hugo it was either unavailable or unaffordable."
The editor, whose paper did not publish on Saturday, the day after the hurricane hit, was comparing this storm with Hurricane Hugo, which devasted St. Croix six years ago, leaving 22,500 homeless and damaging 90 percent of buildings. Then, the island's winter tourist season was lost, electrical and telephone service were not fully restored until the following year and full recovery was years away. A quarter of the residents left, many of them because they did not want their children to miss out on school.
David Edgell, Commissioner of Travel and Tourism, called the damage from Hurricane Marilyn a temporary setback and said he expected the airport to be functioning normally within six weeks and hotels to be back in business by the start of the winter tourist season in December.
But today, the last of about 2,000 tourists were being evacuated from hotels and it is anybody's guess when any will be back.
Sue and Pete Menghini, tourists from Phoenix, said they arrived on Thursday, after Hurricane Luis scared them away from St. John, their original destination. This afternoon they hitched a ride to the airport to wait for any plane to take them, saying that both tempers and food were short at their hotel. They never got to see St. Thomas, or celebrate their 25th anniversary.
"Pete said, 'What are we going to do for our 50th,' " Mrs. Menghini said. "I said, 'Stay home.' "
While tourists fled, the residents were left to deal with its surrealistic aftermath. Hundreds of people stood in queue after queue for ice, canned goods and basic necessities. Very few businesses were open and schools were closed. A curfew from 6 P.M. to 6 A.M. has been imposed.
Mildred Stridiron, in a car crowded with three daughters and three granddaughters, was among those beginning to worry about money. She was down to her last $50 and had no clue when banks would open.
Lines of up to 80 cars formed near gas stations while convoys of relief workers poured in from the airport. Gov. Roy L. Schneider, whose own two-story home lost its roof and most of its walls, said 26 Federal agencies have responded. National Guard troops directed traffic.
The airport is still closed to commercial carriers but was busier than normal with military and charter flight deliveries of water, construction materials, medical supplies and communication gear. These planes were carrying the tourists out. Shelters were open but most people chose to stay with luckier relatives and friends, or to tough it out in damaged quarters. Items almost as vital as food and water were the plastic sheets and wood strips to build makeshift roofs and walls.
"That's what everybody wants," said Kirk Grybowski, director of the Virgin Islands Emergency Management Agency, who himself was having problems finding a building that still had a roof to store the roofing material.
Looting continued to be reported by business owners but did not appear to be widespread. Governor Schneider said 150 Federal marshals and National Guard troops from Puerto Rico were on their way.
Virgin Islands officials said that despite the enormous emergency need, they and their Federal helpers had learned the lessons taught by Hurricane Hugo. Roads were passable and St. Thomas Hospital reopened today. Officials planned to start taking applications for housing grants and loans by early next week.
Mr. Grybowski said as bad as it looked, in two days St. Thomas had achieved what it took St. Croix a week and a half.
But many angrily said they had trusted weather forecasts that had warned them of a weak hurricane only to be pounded by one twice as powerful. Some did not bother to even tape their windows.
Stephen Knapik, 48, who said he lost two friends when they were swept from their houseboats, said, "If they had known it was a direct hit they wouldn't have been on their boats."
The lack of communication only increased the sense of isolation. There were rumors of another hurricane forming and heading their way.
But during the day, radio stations played, "Don't Worry, Be Happy." and "Here Comes the Sun" in between public service announcement and hurricane talk.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hurricane Marilyn knocked out water, electric and telephone services in St. Thomas, where the police handed out bags of ice to residents in Charlotte Amalie yesterday. At least eight people were killed. More than half the island's structures were destroyed, and many more were seriously damaged; In St. Thomas, where tourism accounts for two-thirds of the economy, Hurricane Marilyn has been devastating. Many hotels have been severely damaged and cruise-ship lines have suspended operations. Tourists waited yesterday to be flown out on military and civilian planes that brought supplies. (Photographs by Associated Press)
 
Map shows the location of St. Thomas and the route of Hurricane Marilyn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); 

COUNTRY: VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GRAND PALAZZO HOTEL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST THOMAS (US VIRGIN ISLANDS); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE MARILYN HURRICANES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); TOURISM (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); CRUISES (77%); WEATHER (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); CHILDREN (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



370 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Fall on Data Of Inventory

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of long-term Treasury securities fell yesterday after new inventory data suggested the economy had not slowed as much as expected, dimming the market's hopes for another cut in interest rates.
A recent increase of new corporate debt issuance and a rise in commodity prices also hurt prices, analysts said. The price of the 30-year bond fell 24/32 , to 10416/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 6.53 percent, from 6.48 percent on Friday. 
 The Commerce Department reported yesterday that July business inventories rose three-tenths of 1 percent, slightly less than the increase of a half-percent that economists had expected. Retail inventories fell seven-tenths of 1 percent, indicating that retailers were having success clearing store shelves and suggesting that the economic growth was continuing to be resilient.
But Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities, said the "weaker-than-anticipated increase in inventories, however, is masking somewhat the buildup in inventories that is taking place."
Trading is expected to be subdued until Friday, when Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, presents his semiannual assessment of the economy before the Senate Banking Committee. Mr. Greenspan's testimony comes five days before the Fed's policy-making committee meets.
"When Mr. Greenspan talks before the Senate Banking Committee, all ears are going to be cocked, trying to pick up a clue on Fed sentiment ahead of the meeting next week," said Thomas F. Carpenter, chief economist and manging director ASB Capital Management, a Washington firm that manages more than $6 billion in bonds. He said that much of the trading and positioning of portfolios this week would be done with a view on whether the Fed would take any action on short-term interest rates.
The market view on whether the Fed will cut rates is split, he said, noting that when the case is not clear, the Fed usually takes no action. In July, he said, "everyone knew the Fed would lower rates; at the August meeting everyone knew nothing was going to happen."
Mr. Carpenter does not believe the Fed will ease, citing in part the Fed's recent role in strengthening the dollar and signs of economic growth.
"We have every reason to believe that the third quarter will grow from 2.5 percent to 3 percent, which shows a meaningful acceleration of the 1.1 percent growth of the second quarter," he said.
And Mr. Carpenter noted that the drop in interest rates this year had fueled rallies on the stock and bond markets, "which of themselves provide current and future growth stumulus."
"So in that sense there is no need to lower short rates," he added.
With investors uncertain about the direction of rates, the shorter maturities have become attractive. At yesterday's regular weekly Treasury bill auction, the average discount rates fell to their lowest levels in about a year.
The rate for a three-month bill was 5.25 percent, down 9 basis points from the previous auction and the lowest since Oct. 31, 1994, when it was 5.07 percent. For the six-month maturity, the rate was 5.22 percent, down 11 basis points from last week and the lowest since 5.05 percent on Sept. 19, 1994. A basis point is one- hundredth of a percentage point.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.673	97.361	Discounted Rate	5.25%	5.22%	Coupon Yield	5.41%	5.45%	High Price	98.678	97.366	Discounted Rate	5.23%	5.21%	Coupon Yield	5.39%	5.44%	Low Price	98.673	97.361	Discounted Rate	5.25%	5.22%	Coupon Yield	5.41%	5.45%	Accepted at low price	20%	49%	Total applied for	$53,322,891	$44,321,861	Accepted	$11,436,447	$11,410,581	Noncompetitive	$1,409,202	$1,309,379	

Both issues are dated Sept. 21, 1995. The three-month billsmature on Dec. 21, 1995, and the six-month bills mature on March 21, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows their average discounted rate from 5/95 to 9/95 (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BONDS (91%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); DEBT FINANCING (72%); RETAILERS (69%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



371 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Agency Warns About Japan Banks

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
In the first warning by a Government agency on the dangers posed by the troubles of Japan's financial institutions, Federal regulators today instructed certain federally backed banks to limit their loans to them.
The warning to the nation's 12 Federal Home Loan Banks, which have combined assets roughly equal to those of Citicorp, represents the first move by American financial regulators to insulate the United States from the potential effects of a further meltdown of the Japanese financial system. 
 But the move by the Federal Housing Finance Board, an independent agency, was taken with little consultation with other agencies and did not represent a broad recommendation by the Federal Government for American banks to avoid transactions with Japanese financial institutions.
Treasury officials declined to comment today. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said in July that more needed to be done to strengthen the Japanese financial system, but he has avoided any suggestion that American banks do anything in response.
Japanese banks are struggling with bad debts several times the size of those that sank much of the American savings and loan industry in the late 1980's. Two Japanese credit unions and a regional Japanese bank have collapsed in the last seven weeks. Depositors raced to pull their money out of the failing institutions in Japan before their collapse, with long lines forming outside branches.
Japanese regulators have said that they do not expect other institutions to fail. But the troubles in Japan have prompted a series of urgent reviews by the Treasury Department and several Federal regulatory agencies.
The practical effect of today's directive will be limited -- primarily leading the 12 home loan banks to lend less spare cash to Japanese institutions in overnight transactions. The home loan banks lend money at low rates to savings institutions and some banks for use in home loans.
Today's warning may prompt more banks to pay closer attention to their loans to Japan, but it appears unlikely to lead to broader repercussions for Japanese banks because the Federal Housing Finance Board is little known and has limited influence. A senior official there today said that the board had not analyzed Japanese balance sheets before issuing today's official advisory to home loan banks.
While American regulators have said little publicly, they have been torn between conflicting pressures. They want to make sure that American financial institutions do not suffer large losses if Japanese banks fail. But they also do not want to risk starting a panic by sounding too urgent a warning on Japanese banks.
While regulators ponder the problem, big commercial banks around the world have been quietly reducing their loans to Japanese banks and making sure that they are not overly exposed to the collapse of any one institution. That has reduced the risk that a Japanese financial crisis could spread around the world -- but may also have worsened the problem within Japan, as banks there begin to find it harder to borrow money to cover brief imbalances between their payments and receipts.
Until recently, some Federal Home Loan Banks were increasing their loans to Japanese institutions, though others had been reducing them, according to the Federal Housing Finance Board, which regulates the banks.
Set up by Congress in the Depression, each of the nation's 12 Federal Home Loan Banks is owned by savings institutions and banks in its region. The home loan banks sell notes and bonds at interest rates barely above those on Treasuries because of their Federal backing. The home loan banks then relend the money at low rates to their owners, which use the funds for housing loans.
As of Friday, the 12 home loan banks had combined short-term loans of $2.9 billion to Japanese financial institutions, said James D. Roy, the president of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh. That was down sharply from $5.6 billion on July 31 as many loans matured and were not renewed. The home loan banks together had $246.7 billion in assets this summer and $13.8 billion in capital, their cushion against losses.
Japanese institutions have seemed like attractive borrowers in the past, but, Mr. Roy said, "this exposure is being worked down across the board."
Bruce A. Morrison, the chairman of the Federal Housing Finance Board, said that he was less interested in the reasons for the lending than in forcing home loan banks to reassess their positions now. "It was a matter sufficient for me to be concerned" and order the agency a few weeks ago to begin reviewing the issue, he said.
Some evidence suggests that the exposure of American banks in general to losses in Japan may be limited. A Federal Reserve survey last March of 138 large American commercial banks found that they had lent a total of $9 billion to Japanese banks, a small fraction of their $238 billion in international loans over all.
When the home loan banks raise money from bond issues, they invest it until they need to relend the money to member institutions. They also invest money deposited with them by local savings institutions and banks.
Much of these investments consist of overnight loans to other banks and purchases of short-term notes issued by other banks. Citing last week's move by a bank-rating agency to issue a lower credit rating to two Japanese banks, the Federal Housing Finance Board strongly warned the Federal Home Loan Banks today to limit these loans and note purchases with respect to all Japanese financial institutions.
Specifically, the board's office of examination and regulatory oversight told the banks to lend less to their Japanese counterparts than the board's standard regulations on creditworthiness would permit. The memorandum, which carries nearly the force of regulation and is the first advisory memorandum issued by the board this year, does not say how much the lending should be reduced but does say that the 12 banks should "manage their unsecured credit exposures more rigorously than required" by the board's financial management rules.
A senior board official said this evening that a home loan bank adhering to the memorandum might limit its lending to a Japanese financial institution to a level consistent with a credit rating for the Japanese institution one notch lower than its current rating.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD; FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS CITIGROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA (55%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (84%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (83%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD; FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (84%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (83%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); CREDIT UNIONS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



372 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Fear in Virgin Islands
In the wake of Hurricane Marilyn, there is a fear of a monstrous economic impact for St. Thomas, which depends on tourism for two thirds of its economy. Page B7.
 
Florida's Role in '96 Grows
 Florida, with its 25 electoral votes, is emerging as one of the most consequential early states in Presidential politics for Republicans and Democrats alike. Page A17.
 
 
Mine Agency Threatened
 Under legislation now in Congress, the Mine Safety and Health Administration would lose its ability to make unannounced inspections. Page A14.
 
 
Mexico's Political Tremor
 The greatest legacy of Mexico's brutal earthquake ten years ago, many people believe, was a political shift, but not everyone agrees. Page A3.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (91%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MINE SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (57%); MINE SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINE SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (57%); MINE SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (91%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); POLITICS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



373 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Lester Lum Colbert, 90, Chief At Chrysler During the 1950's

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Lester Lum Colbert, a retired president and chairman of the Chrysler Corporation, died Friday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 90.
Mr. Colbert, whose nickname was Tex, succeeded K. T. Keller as president of Chrysler in 1950. He later added the title of chairman of the auto maker. He resigned as head of the parent company in 1961, after which he was chairman of a subsidiary, the Chrysler Corporation of Canada Ltd., until 1965, when he retired. 
 As a fledgling lawyer in the New York firm of Larkin, Rathbone & Perry, Mr. Colbert impressed a client, Walter P. Chrysler, who was the head of the automobile company. Mr. Chrysler sent Mr. Colbert to Detroit in 1933, where he joined Mr. Keller's executive staff and worked on labor issues for 10 years, including negotiations with Walter Reuther, president of the United Automobile Workers union.
Early in World War II, Mr. Keller asked Mr. Colbert to attend night classes and study manufacturing fundamentals, including machine operations and reading blueprints. In 1943, Mr. Colbert was appointed general manager of Chrysler's big Dodge division factory in Chicago, which was making engines for B-29 bombers. After the war, he was promoted to head of the Dodge division.
Mr. Colbert, who had been commended by General H. H. Arnold for his wartime production achievements, headed Chrysler in prosperous times in the first postwar years. When he resigned in 1961, the company had encountered difficulties that included losses during a recession, strikes at suppliers, stockholder lawsuits and abrupt changes in senior management. He was succeeded by Lynn A. Townsend.
Dissident stockholders accused a number of Chrysler executives of profiting improperly from holdings in companies that made automobile parts for Chrysler. William C. Newberg, who was a partner in a supplier company, was forced out as president of Chrysler and required to pay $455,000 to the company. Mr. Newberg later filed a $5 million lawsuit against Mr. Colbert, the company and other Chrysler officers, contending that he had been unfairly removed. The company paid Mr. Newberg $85,000 in a settlement in 1970.
Mr. Colbert confirmed in 1961 that his wife at the time, Daisy Gorman Colbert, had formerly owned several hundred shares in a Chrysler supplier, but he noted that he had been cleared of improper behavior by a New York law firm that investigated the shareholders' complaints.
Born in Oakwood, Tex., a small farming town, in 1905, Mr. Colbert helped his father buy and sell cotton, starting as a teen-ager. He attended the University of Texas and Harvard Law School, from which he received a J.D. degree in 1929.
After his wife died in 1970, he moved to Naples and invested in oil and gas ventures, his son Nicholas said. He was an ardent fund-raiser for the University of Texas for 30 years, including a term as head of the school's development board.
In addition to his son Nicholas, of Houston, his survivors include his wife, Robert Ellen Hoke Colbert of Naples, whom he married in 1972; another son, Lester L. Colbert Jr. of New York, and a daughter, Sarah Colbert Noble of Battle Creek, Mich.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lester Lum Colbert. (1960) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: C (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NAPLES, FL, USA (88%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); NEW YORK (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NAPLES, FL, USA (88%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (69%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (68%); FUNDRAISING (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (63%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: COLBERT, LESTER LUM LESTER LUM COLBERT (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



374 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Oil and Gas Finds by Texaco Give It Hope in Gulf of Mexico

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
In a sign that the Gulf of Mexico continues to hold promise, Texaco Inc. announced yesterday that it had found oil and natural gas in three wildcat wells it drilled off Louisiana, in areas that most major oil companies had considered played out.
While Texaco has yet to decide whether to bring the wells into production and while it remained unclear how big the finds could be, they could help Texaco catch up with rivals such as Shell and Amoco. Those companies have taken the lead in finding oil and gas in very deep water and below salt layers in the seabed. 
 Some analysts were encouraged by Texaco's announcement, because the company had been falling behind in adding to its reserves. They cautioned, however, that it was still unclear whether the wells could be brought into production economically.
"It's nice that they have had successful discoveries," said Holly Gustafson, an oil analyst with Natwest Securities. "There are still many unknowns on these wells."
The shares of Texaco, which is based in White Plains, fell 62.5 cents yesterday, to $66.375, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Gulf of Mexico has become an important proving ground for the use of computers to read huge amounts of data to help pinpoint where to drill and to demonstrate that oil from very deep waters can be produced economically.
There is a growing conviction that the gulf may contain reserves greater than those of Prudhoe Bay in Alaska, the last giant field discovered in the United States, with reserves totaling 12 billion barrels.
Texaco has tested only one of the new discoveries, in an area 130 miles southeast of New Orleans in 1,754 feet of water. Its partner in the project is Marathon Oil, a subsidiary of the USX Corporation.
Clarence P. Cazalot, the president of Texaco's domestic exploration arm, said yesterday that another well would be drilled in October to determine the size of the reservoir and that commercial production could start in about three years. He added that because the success rate for wildcat wells was about one in five, Texaco's three-for-three record in the gulf this year was encouraging.
Mr. Cazalot said Texaco had accelerated its exploration program in the gulf in a drive to add about 80,000 barrels of production a day over the next five years to its daily domestic output of 665,000 barrels.
Texaco said that it had also drilled a successful exploratory well in deep water about 150 miles southwest of New Orleans. That well, which was drilled with the Shell Offshore unit of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, has been temporarily plugged.
The third well is a subsalt project under 3,393 feet of water 90 miles southeast of New Orleans. The project, in which the Chevron Corporation is a partner, has caused interest in the industry because there could be huge deposits below the salt layers under developed fields. It would be relatively inexpensive to produce oil and gas in such areas, because many platforms and pipelines are already in place.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%); MRO (NYSE) (85%); RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); X (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (85%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TEXACO INC; SHELL OIL CO; AMOCO OIL CO CHEVRON CORP (93%); MARATHON OIL CORP (85%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); SHELL GROUP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXACO INC; SHELL OIL CO; AMOCO OIL CO SHELL GROUP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO; LOUISIANA; UNITED STATES (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES; GAS (FUEL) OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (91%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); 

PERSON: CLARENCE CAZALOT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



375 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Avoid Being Caught In the Middle;
Mutual Funds Seek Mergers To Grow And Capitalize On 401(k) Retirement Plans

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
The Contractors Supply Company of Kansas City, Mo., knows about building for the long term. It sells everything from hammers to backhoes in Kansas, Missouri and Arkansas.
But until recently, Contractors Supply lacked a basic building block in the retirement plan it offered its 160 employees: bond mutual funds. With Twentieth Century Investors handling their 401(k) and profit-sharing plans, employees had few investment choices beyond the high-growth stock funds for which that fund company is best known. Last month they got that choice, though, a few months after Twentieth Century took over the Benham Group of mutual funds, a bond specialist. 
 Twentieth Century is not alone in its push to expand. Mutual fund companies that have grown steadily by carving out their own niches are now, increasingly, turning to mergers and acquisitions for growth, particularly to capitalize on the rise of 401(k) programs.
"A 401(k) program is often an investor's first brush with mutual funds," said W. Gordon Snyder, executive vice president of Twentieth Century. By offering a full array of funds in a retirement program, he said, a fund company stands a better chance of being selected for an individual's other investments.
In addition, customers are demanding a higher level of service from fund companies, like instant access to account balances and phone transfers between funds. By broadening its array of offerings, a fund company can lower expenses by spreading the cost.
And as investors continue to pour money into funds at a record pace, the gap is growing between full-service behemoths, like the FMR Corporation's Fidelity Investments and the Vanguard Group, and small, niche providers. Fund companies, increasingly aware that the broad middle of that range might be the worst place to be, are being forced to decide whether to be huge or tiny.
But those fund companies choosing to grow by acquisitions or mergers are encountering a paradox. Fidelity and Vanguard did not grow by buying rival funds; their businesses are home-grown. And some fund families, like the Crabbe Huson Group of Portland, Ore., have started down the road to merger only to find that the frustrations of trying to become part of a large, ponderous brokerage firm outweighed the advantages of having a bigger sales force.
Still, at least a dozen mutual fund companies, with more than $250 billion in assets, have changed hands this year. The Oppenheimer Management Corporation, a unit of Massachusetts Mutual Life, increased its portfolio of offerings by 25 percent with the purchase of 12 Quest for Value funds with $1.6 billion in assets from Oppenheimer Capital, an unrelated company; Kemper Financial Service bought Dreman Value Management, which oversees funds with $1.5 billion in assets; New England Investment Companies bought Harris Associates, parent of the $3.2 billion Oakmark mutual funds, and Stein Roe & Farnham bought the American Asset Management Company, a small Cleveland-based fund company.
In addition to fund companies merging with each other, the industry continues to hold attraction for banks and insurance companies, which have been expanding their presence in the fund business in recent years.
The pace shows no signs of abating. "In the long run, I believe the mutual fund industry will be consolidating further," said Stephen B. Timbers, chairman and chief executive of Kemper Financial Services, the mutual fund unit of Kemper Corporation. "The cost of doing business is going up. Companies need to have a broad product line. Distribution is costing more, and a lot of firms are finding they are not of sufficient size to compete."
Size has been a hotly debated topic since May 1994, when Goldman, Sachs & Company issued a report titled "The Changing Economics of the Mutual Fund Industry." One of its conclusions was that "It will be extremely difficult for mutual fund companies to survive" unless they have $10 billion to $20 billion in assets under management. Otherwise, the structural costs of the business will outweigh the fees generated by managing funds.
Not all parties buy this argument -- which, dissidents point out, is being supported by the companies that earn fees on mergers. Geoff Bobroff, a Rhode Island-based consultant, cites numerous forces driving the merger trend: changes in Federal pension laws, the aging of a generation of entrepreneurial fund executives, a change in the industry's cost structure because of the greater popularity of no-load funds, and the increasing cost of hiring good fund managers. "It's not so simple to just say that size is the determining factor," Mr. Bobroff said.
In some instances, mergers have resulted from a fund company's desire to fill a hole in its product line quickly. "Our business mix was too oriented to fixed-income," Mr. Timbers said, so Kemper acquired Dreman, whose funds specialize in stocks that have been beaten down to below-average valuations. "We could have built those funds ourselves," he said, "but it would have taken several years to establish a track record from scratch."
In a way, the shift is similar to what is happening with banks. Technology allows fund companies to provide more service, which leads consumers to ask for even more service. "When a customer calls up, we can now find in five seconds the information it used to take five hours to get," said Jon Fossel, chairman of Oppenheimer Management. "When customers learn you can do that, they call up more often. So our cost of computation per transaction has gone down, but our overall spending has gone up." Spreading those costs over a wider asset base, achieved through acquisitions, eases their impact.
That has been the experience of New England Investment, which operates several mutual fund companies, including Loomis Sayles & Company, New England Funds and Reich & Tang. "There are some economies of scale in the custody and back office activities," said Peter S. Voss, chairman and chief executive. But for his company, the real benefit comes from access to wider distribution -- offering several different families of funds through one sales channel.
As technology improves, fund families become more important than the individual products, says Michael J. Turillo, a partner at KPMG Peat Marwick. As it becomes easier for individuals to move money between funds and to act on different investment strategies, the fund company with the most diversity is most likely to retain customers.
Only recently has competition begun to eat significantly into the industry's high gross margins, which historically have exceeded 50 percent. But the combination of all those factors is likely to cause the consolidation to continue, Mr. Fossel said.
"There are 10 to 12 really big guys, and there is a large handful of boutiques," he said. But with spending growing for new computer systems and hot-shot fund managers, "in the middle, you've got a problem," he said. "The critical mass today is much higher."
Oppenheimer finds itself on the cusp of the big-to-middle group; its $36 billion in assets rank 16th among fund companies. Mr. Fossel aims to expand that to $100 billion by the turn of the century, a feat that will be all but impossible without further big acquisitions.
One area on which he intends to focus: 401(k) business.
Fund companies have been taking a growing share of this expanding business, at the expense of insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions. According to Access Research Inc. of Windsor, Conn., fund companies last year controlled 28 percent of the assets of 401(k) plans, double the level in 1988. Over the same stretch, insurance companies' share fell to 32 percent from 40 percent, and banks' share slipped to 27 percent from 32 percent.
At the same time, companies are offering more investment options to 401(k) participants. A recent survey of 50 large American companies by Watson Wyatt Worldwide, a benefits consulting firm, showed that the number of companies offering 401(k) participants five or more investment options rose to 60 percent this year from 32 percent two years ago.
The fastest-growing part of that business is the market for small-company 401(k) programs, for companies with fewer than 500 employees. While 96 percent of companies with more than 5,000 employees already have 401(k) plans, according to Access Research, only one-third of the companies with fewer than 500 workers now have plans. And only 11 percent of companies with fewer than 50 employees have a 401(k) plan.
"The small-company 401(k) market is untapped and is one of the profitable growth areas," said Mr. Bobroff, the fund consultant. "But you might not make any money on that business for five to seven years."
In addition, said Mr. Timbers of Kemper, which aims for the small end of the market, "To be competitive, you have to have a whole series of portfolios for customers to choose from." But new funds are rarely profitable until they pass at least $60 million in assets. All of which leads companies interested in the that area toward further acquisitions.
Among the bigger fund companies that have attracted attention as a potential takeover target is T. Rowe Price, which manages $44 billion in assets. The company's stock price moved higher this summer on speculation about a possible offer and on enthusiasm for its growing earnings. But T. Rowe Price has said it wants to remain independent.
Not every company that has moved in that direction has enjoyed the trip. In February, the Crabbe Huson Group, an Oregon-based fund family, dropped a planned merger with the Prudential Insurance Company of America.
Cultural differences between the young, upstart Crabbe Huson and the staid Prudential led to the dissolution, said Richard Huson, co-founder of Crabbe Huson. And in the year since the merger talks started, Crabbe Huson's assets more than tripled, to $890 million from $250 million. That growth allowed the company to command better prices for administrative work it farmed out, leaving it in a position to remain independent.
Mr. Huson admits, however, that if the long-running bull market comes to an end, fund companies his size -- now at $1.6 billion -- could face trouble. "If we get into a real bear market, the whole industry will lose assets, and we won't escape that," he said. "So should we go out and try to increase our mass, or is there a market for smallish mutual fund groups that develop a good product? I think there is, but in this industry, a niche might mean billions and billions of dollars."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Why So Many Mergers?" shows money being invested into 401(k) retirement plans from '88 to '94 (pg. D1); "More Funds, More Choices" shows the largest mutual fund companies, ranked by assets (Source: Investment Company Institute) (pg. D4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAMC (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5082 CONSTRUCTION & MINING (EXCEPT PETROLEUM) MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (67%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%); NORTHEAST USA (52%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (73%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CONTRACTORS SUPPLY CO INC (95%); FMR CORP (93%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (72%); OPPENHEIMER MANAGEMENT CORP (62%); NVEST LP (60%); NEW ENGLAND INVESTMENT COS INC (60%); CRABBE HUSON GROUP INC (52%); KEMPER FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (50%); STEIN ROE & FARNHAM INC (50%); DREMAN VALUE MANAGEMENT LP (50%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (67%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%); NORTHEAST USA (52%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (73%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; MUTUAL FUNDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (95%); US 401K PLANS (93%); MERGERS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); BOND FUNDS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (77%); EXECUTIVES (67%); FAMILY (66%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD GEOFF BOBROFF (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



376 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Serial Killer Is Sentenced In 2 Deaths

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, L.I., Sept. 18

 BODY:
Joel Rifkin, the confessed serial killer who is already serving at least 27 years in prison, drew 50 additional years to life today for strangling two women and burying them in makeshift graves in a wooded area of Southampton.
Mr. Rifkin, 35, is an unemployed landscaper from East Meadow, L.I., who has told authorities he killed at least 17 women. Last month, he pleaded guilty to the two Suffolk murder charges after unexpectedly abandoning an insanity defense. 
 He showed no emotion today, but accused Judge John J. Jones Jr. of Suffolk County Court of cruel treatment for refusing to delay the proceeding to give him more time to recover from an operation to remove a cyst from his back.
Mr. Rifkin's sentences will run consecutively, meaning he will serve a minimum of 77 years in prison. But the total could go much higher, because he still faces murder charges in other counties, including the Bronx and Queens.
Last year, a Nassau County jury rejected Mr. Rifkin's insanity defense and found him guilty of murdering Tiffany Bresciani, 19, whose body the police discovered in Mr. Rifkin's pickup truck on June 28, 1993. The discovery, made after Mr. Rifkin was stopped for a traffic violation, led to his detailed confession to a string of murders involving prostitutes he said he picked up in lower Manhattan.
The victims Mr. Rifkin buried in Suffolk were Leah Evens, 28, of Brooklyn and Lauren Marquez, 28, of Sunnyside, Queens. Their bodies were found within five miles of the courthouse here.
Michael Ahearn, the assistant Suffolk County district attorney who prosecuted the two Suffolk cases, described Mr. Rifkin today as a remorseless egotist for whom capital punishment would be appropriate. "He views himself as a victim," Mr. Ahearn said. "He cannot feel sorrow."
In a barely audible voice, Sue Evens, the mother of Leah Evens, told Judge Jones, "It is important that this man never be able to harm anyone again."
Mr. Rifkin's lawyer, Kathleen K. Trum, said after the sentencing that rulings by Judge Jones, including one that blocked expert testimony based on hypnosis of Mr. Rifkin, thwarted the planned insanity defense. She said that Mr. Rifkin would appeal.
"I don't understand why so many hurdles have been placed in front of what we are trying to do here," said Ms. Trum, the latest in a series of lawyers representing Mr. Rifkin. "You're going to have more of these people if society doesn't come to grips to learn their psyches. You can't just lock them up and throw away the key."
Ms. Trum said she would try to revive the insanity defense in Queens County, where Mr. Rifkin is charged with the murder of Iris Sanchez, 25, of Manhattan, whose body was found near Kennedy International Airport. A hearing is scheduled for Wednesday.
Before the sentencing, Mr. Rifkin protested Judge Jones's refusal to postpone the hearing.
"My being here today with an open three-and-a-half-inch surgical incision is a flagrant violation of the court's oaths and responsibilities," Mr. Rifkin said.
He argued that there was "no reason in law or logic" why the sentencing could not be postponed.
Mr. Ahearn said the statement typified Mr. Rifkin's obsession with himself. "There is a lack of saying he is sorry or has any remorse," he said outside the courtroom. "Everything is always in terms of himself. He never takes any responsibility for what he has done."
But Ms. Trum said that Mr. Rifkin was filled with remorse.
"Joel's emotion at this point is, 'What is wrong with me?' " she said. "To say that he doesn't show remorse is an insult. Do you think this is the way he wanted his life to go?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SUFFOLK COUNTY COURT (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUFFOLK COUNTY COURT (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SERIAL MURDERS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); PROSTITUTION MURDER (93%); VERDICTS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); INSANITY DEFENSE (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); LAWYERS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); JURY TRIALS (76%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); WITNESSES (75%); TESTIMONY (75%); PROSTITUTION (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%); AIRPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, JOEL JOEL RIFKIN (97%); KATHLEEN K TRUM (69%); JOHN J JONES JR (69%); MICHAEL AHEARN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



377 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Evaluating American Universities

 BODY:
America's research universities are the envy of the world. Still, they will need to thrive -- and continue to improve -- if the country is to keep its scientific and technological edge. An evaluation of American doctoral programs suggests that the country is making progress but still has work to do.
The study, "Research-Doctorate Programs in the United States," was carried out by the National Research Council, an independent organization chartered by Congress. The researchers rated 274 universities based on the quality of their Ph.D. programs in 36 departments, from art history to economics to genetics. Each department was rated on quality of the faculty and teaching effectiveness. 
 The report brought joy or anguish to many campuses depending on how they placed on "Top 10" lists that appeared in many newspapers. But to focus on rankings is to miss the broader point. In many cases, the difference between the first-ranked and 20th-ranked schools was relatively slight. In biochemistry and molecular biology, the first-ranked school, the University of California at San Francisco, received a faculty rating of 4.84. The University of Texas-Southwestern Medical Center placed 20th with a rating of 4.00. The gist of the report is that America has fine research institutions in virtually every region, though strengths clearly vary by school.
Those who worry about American competitiveness in science and engineering will find grounds for cautious optimism. Since the last ranking in 1982, the growth in the number of science and engineering graduate students has been slow but steady. The students are also more diverse, with a significant increase in women and modest increase in underrepresented minorities.
Data from elsewhere show that much of the net growth is due to an increase in foreign students on temporary visas. Those students made up a fifth of science and engineering graduate students in 1982. In 1992 they made up nearly a third. Most of them will leave here when they graduate, benefiting the economies of their home countries rather than the United States. The country needs to look harder at whether it is producing the right number of home-grown Ph.D.'s in the appropriate specialties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (83%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (83%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (83%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (83%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDITORIALS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); BIOCHEMISTRY (75%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); HISTORY (73%); BIOLOGY (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); ART HISTORY (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



378 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
A New Field of Dreams or Just a Dream?

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
While George Steinbrenner generates competition between New York City and the state of New Jersey for the honor of building the Yankees a new home, two less-endowed baseball teams face critical stadium developments this week and a third may learn if it's staying put or moving after 109 years.
Voters will go to the polls in Seattle today to decide if they want to approve funding for a $241 million stadium to replace the Kingdome. The prevailing view in the city is if the stadium bid fails, the Mariners will be sold and moved. 
 The Wisconsin State Assembly had been scheduled to vote yesterday on financing for a $250 million stadium for the Milwaukee Brewers, but the bill's supporters don't have the votes and have postponed action until Friday so they can rework the financing plan.
"My committee needs to get work done Monday night," Representative David Prosser Jr., the assembly speaker, said in a weekend interview, alluding to the possible impact of the Seattle vote on the Milwaukee project.
In Pittsburgh, meanwhile, a new stadium could play a pivotal role in the future of the Pirates there, but of more immediate concern is the prospect of the purchase of the team by Kevin McClatchy of Sacramento, Calif., a member of the family that owns the McClatchy newspaper chain.
The Pirates' ownership, which has sought a buyer for more than a year, has given McClatchy, the latest potential buyer, until Friday to come up with a legitimate offer. No other potential buyers who would agree to keep the team in Pittsburgh are in sight.
Besides a buyer, the future of the Pirates in Pittsburgh, like the other teams, is tied to a new stadium. At a time when all franchises are seeking to build attendance and increase revenues, attractive, fan-friendly stadiums such as Camden Yards in Baltimore and Jacobs Field in Cleveland have become the objects of great desire.
Boston, Detroit, Cincinnati, San Francisco and Philadelphia are among the other cities whose teams have talked about new homes, some seeking modern facilities, others baseball-only stadiums.
Furthermore, the Mets have proposed a stadium to replace Shea Stadium, and the Yankees could wind up in a new playground on either side of the Hudson River after their Yankee Stadium lease expires in 2002.
William Collins 3d, a Washington media executive, who unsuccessfully bid for an expansion franchise for northern Virginia, is ready to pounce on any team that may become available. If he were successful in plucking one of the financially troubled franchises, he would move the team to Washington and have it play in Robert F. Kennedy Stadium pending the construction of a new stadium in the rapidly growing area of northern Virginia.
Baseball officials and club owners have been reluctant to allow teams to move; three years ago they blocked the sale of the San Francisco Giants to a Florida group that was prepared to transfer the team to St. Petersburg. But in the face of growing instability in some areas, they would feel compelled to permit certain teams to move.
The Brewers, interestingly, are one of those teams. Their fate holds great interest because their principal owner is Bud Selig, the acting commissioner.
At a recent hearing on the stadium funding bill in Waukesha, Wis., Selig's statement that the team could go elsewhere provoked angry shouts of "go" from spectators. Waukesha and Milwaukee counties are the ones where a one-tenth of a percent increase in the sales tax would generate funds for the proposed new stadium. But resistance from those counties has forced a change in strategy.
"Right now I do not have 50 votes, no way," said Prosser, the co-chairman of the legislative committee that has spearheaded the drive to build a stadium. "We're in the process of reworking Gov. Thompson's bill trying to get to a consensus bill that can pass the assembly."
John Merkt, an aide to the speaker, said yesterday the new financing bill was expected to add two or three counties to the sales-tax plan. He said the Assembly planned to vote Friday so that the State Senate can vote next week. The Brewers' lease at Milwaukee County Stadium expires Oct. 1, he said.
"There is no question that the team cannot survive in Milwaukee without new revenue sources and probably without a new stadium," Prosser said.
According to a legislative audit released last week, the Brewers have lost a net aggregate of $38.9 million the last six years. "Without an increase in revenue, it is highly unlikely that the club will be financially viable in the future," state financial officials stated in a letter accompanying the audit.
As their part of the constructions costs, the Brewers would contribute $90 million, but $50 million of that total would come as a loan from the Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority.
"If there were a serious shortfall of projected revenues," the audit states, "it is possible that the club would have difficulty meeting its obligation to repay the loan."
In King County, Washington, voters are being asked to approve a one-tenth of one percent sales and use tax for up to 20 years. The referendum has not been given much of a chance to pass, and if recent attendance has offered an indication, it won't pass.
The Mariners are in the race for both the American League West championship and the league's wild-card spot in the playoffs, but last week they had four consecutive crowds of less than 19,000.
If the new stadium is defeated and the Mariners' owners sell the team, it's not likely that a local buyer would step forward.
None has emerged in Pittsburgh, where the Pirates face a potential $20 million in losses this year. McClatchy is the latest in a line of potential buyers to try to put together a successful bid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (53%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH PIRATES; SEATTLE MARINERS; MILWAUKEE BREWERS WISCONSIN STATE JOURNAL (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (83%); SEATTLE MARINERS (83%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (83%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (83%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (83%); SEATTLE MARINERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES; SEATTLE MARINERS; MILWAUKEE BREWERS NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (83%); SEATTLE MARINERS (83%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (83%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (83%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (83%); SEATTLE MARINERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH (PA); SEATTLE (WASH); MILWAUKEE (WIS); UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (53%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STADIUMS STADIUMS & ARENAS (95%); BASEBALL (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPORTS FANS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); APPROVALS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY GEORGE STEINBRENNER (74%); SCOTT DAVID (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



379 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Helen K. Nearing, Maine Writer, Dies at 91

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

 BODY:
Helen K. Nearing, who with her husband, Scott Nearing, wrote about leaving the congested streets of Manhattan to find peace and happiness through hard work and self-sufficiency on a New England farm, died on Sunday in an automobile accident near her home in Harborside, Me. She was 91.
Mrs. Nearing, whose husband died at 100 in 1983, had continued to live alone in the farmhouse they built 40 years ago overlooking Penobscot Bay. She was killed when a car she was driving struck a tree, said Eliot Coleman, a friend who lives on a neighboring farm. 
 Between them, Mrs. Nearing and her husband wrote more than 50 books during their half-century of homesteading, including "Living the Good Life" and "Continuing the Good Life," written initially in pamphlet form and then published by Schocken in 1954 and 1970, respectively.
Although written shortly after the Depression, both books became primers for thousands of urbanites who dropped out of the corporate world in the early 1970's and headed for the quiet countryside.
Followers describe the Nearings as the "senior gurus" of the back-to-the-land movement.
"Materialism does not produce happiness," Mrs. Nearing told those who came to tour her Forest Farm and marvel that, in an age of mass communications, she still made do without radio or television.
"She gave in and had a telephone installed about 10 years ago so she could keep in touch with all her friends around the world," said Mr. Coleman, who with his wife, Barbara Damrosch, is host of a cable television series called "Natural Gardening."
A lifelong vegetarian, Mrs. Nearing also did not take aspirin or use a credit card. Instead, she helped to restore the soil of her farm, build a stone farmhouse and outbuildings and plant an organic garden. In her pantry, she filled barrels with flour and sugar, much like New England dwellers a hundred or more years before her.
"In November, the rafters in our big country kitchen are hung with braids of onions and shallots, with ears of dried corn, with drying herbs (mint, tarragon, thyme, parsley, celery, sage and lovage)," she once wrote in a letter to The New York Times.
"Of bottled canned goods in the kitchen cellar, we have 160 quarts of vegatable soup and tomato juice, 132 quarts of rose hips, 80 quarts of applesauce, 146 quarts of raspberries, and jars and jars of jam," she wrote.
Mrs. Nearing drew a parallel between the people who immigrated to New England in the 1700's and "the many young people of today who find no satisfactory way to exercise or develop their talents and interests in modern city or suburb."
"They are willing and eager to clear their land, build their homes, dig and cultivate their own gardens and subsist on their own work," she said. "They are finding out that it is possible to live daily self-sufficient lives even in the middle of the 20th century."
Believing in the adage "waste not, want not," she wrote about all her experiences, providing New Age homesteaders with 10- and 20-year projects leading toward "the good life."
"The Maple Sugar Book," which she wrote with her husband and which was published by Schocken in 1950, told not only of the art and history of sugaring but also of the practical details of sugar making.
Another primer, "Building and Using Our Sun-Heated Greenhouse," published in 1971 by Dutton and now out of print, told of how to grow vegetables year-round in New England without artificial heating.
Among the books that Mrs. Nearing wrote alone were "Wise Words on the Good Life" (Schocken, 1983) and "Simple Food for the Good Life" (Stillpoint, 1983), which she described as "an anti-cooking book that advocates fresh raw foods and minimal cooking."
Her latest work, to be published this month by Tilbury House, "Light on Aging and Dying," is a collection of quotations inspired by the death of her husband 12 years ago.
Mrs. Nearing, who was born in Ridgewood, N.J., graduated from Ridgewood High School, then traveled extensively aboard, studying the violin, which she gave up for gardening when she married Mr. Nearing.
The Nearings began their long journey in search of the good life in 1932, when Mr. Nearing, a professor of economics, left the academic world and moved far away from New York City and the Depression to the wilderness of Vermont, where they built their first farm.
Twenty years later, feeling crowded by a nearby ski lift and growing tourism, they headed for Maine. They kept a car and a pickup truck but permitted no machines on the farm that were not run by human or animal power.
According to the Nearings' wishes, an education and retreat center is to be established on Forest Farm after their deaths. The nonprofit center, to be called the Good Life Center, is to be administered and financed in part by the Trust for Public Land of Boston, an organization that preserves rural sites and crafts.
The Social Science Institute, formed in 1953 to print political and economic pamphlets written by Mr. Nearing, will become part of the Good Life Center.
Mrs. Nearing is survived by a sister, Alice Vaughan of Dorset, Vt.; a niece, Barbara Tuttle, and a nephew, C. B. Vaughan, both of Dorset, and a stepson, Robert Nearing of Troy, Pa.
A memorial service will be held at 2 P.M. on Sunday, Oct. 1, at the Brookville Community Center in South Brookville, Me.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Helen K. Nearing. (Arthur Grace, 1975) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (90%); MAINE, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GOOD LIFE CENTER (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOOD LIFE CENTER (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); MAINE, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); WRITERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); GARDENING (86%); CANNED FOOD PROCESSING (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (60%); 

PERSON: NEARING, HELEN K; MCQUISTON, JOHN T HELEN K NEARING (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



380 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Business Inventories Were Up by 0.3% in July

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Stocks of unsold goods piled up steadily in July, the Government said today, a sign that businesses were having trouble getting inventories into line with generally soft sales.
Inventories held by all businesses grew three-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $962.83 billion in July, the Commerce Department said, the 16th straight monthly increase. The rise, which was two-tenths of a point below analysts' expectations, followed a revised June increase of four-tenths of 1 percent. 
 Analysts said the inventory "overhang" was a drag on the economy as it forced manufacturers to keep a lid on production. But they also noted an encouraging sign in the report -- retailers made progress clearing store shelves, which could allow for production to pick up later in the year.
The report fits a pattern of mixed economic news that will confront Federal Reserve policy makers when they meet on Sept. 26 to weigh another cut in interest rates. The Fed, the nation's central bank, cut short-term rates for the first time in nearly three years in July.
Many analysts expect the Fed to hold rates steady next week.
"The inventory situation continued to deteriorate in July," said Lynn Reaser, economist for the First Interstate Bancorp in Los Angeles.
Roseanne Cahn, an economist for CS First Boston in New York, said, "What's happening is that the overall environment is fairly sluggish, which means that even though companies are trying hard to keep their inventories under control, it's a real struggle."
Manufacturers' inventories rose six-tenths of 1 percent in July, to a seasonally adjusted $412.45 billion, which caused manufacturing employment to fall in July, while wholesalers' stocks of unsold goods grew nine-tenths of 1 percent, to $252.12 billion. Retail inventories dropped for a second straight month, falling seven-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $298.25 billion.
Ms. Reaser said she continued to believe the unwanted bulge in inventories -- tied mainly to a sharp drop in the pace of consumer spending in the second quarter -- would be worked off in the current quarter.
Indeed, the Federal Reserve reported Friday that companies manufacturing everything from new cars to furniture and home appliances managed to push production rates up sharply in August.
In July, though, the Commerce Department said total business sales fell a sharp 1.2 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $674.95 billion, after a seven-tenths of 1 percent June gain.
The combination of lower sales and more unsold goods pushed the inventory-to-sales ratio -- a closely watched measure of how long it would take to sell existing stocks at the July sales pace -- up to 1.43 months' worth from 1.41 months in June. Department officials said it was the highest level for the ratio in more than one and a half years, which also stood at 1.43 months in October 1993.
But the weaker July sales were no surprise, partly reflecting lower shipments of new cars as auto makers closed plants in July to install new machinery and tooling for 1996 models. There were similar shutdowns in the textile industry.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Inventory-Sales Ratio" shows total month-end business inventories divided by total montly business sales from 2/94 to 7/95 (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT WELLS FARGO & CO (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) INVENTORIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: LYNN REASER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



381 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: The Wealth of Nations: A 'Greener' Approach Turns List Upside Down

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
A NEW system for measuring national wealth that puts a value on natural and mineral resources has been developed by the World Bank. The system is intended to foster a new perspective of development economics by making explicit the costs of environmental degradation and by debiting the national wealth account as mineral resources are depleted.
Such an accounting system, part of the bank's efforts to broaden the perspective of development economics, offers the first comprehensive estimates of national wealth for 192 countries, with some surprising changes in the usual ranking of the wealth of nations. Australia, at $835,000 per person, comes out on top, with Canada second ($704,000), Japan fifth ($565,000) and the United States 12th ($421,000). Ethiopia brings up the rear with a national wealth of $1,400 per capita. 
 The bank's ambitious new report, released on Sunday, puts numbers on the costs of environmental degradation for the first time, thereby identifying dozens of countries like Kenya, Libya, Nigeria and Venezuela that are, in effect, eating their seed corn -- countries where the accumulation of capital has been offset by the depletion of raw materials and fertile land. And the report provides potent ammunition for those who argue that sustainable development turns on factors that often get short shrift from economists.
The study, "Monitoring Economic Progress," is already being hailed as a model that could help to refocus development strategies. "What we normally measure as capital is a small part of what it takes to sustain human welfare," explained Robert M. Solow, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who won the Nobel Prize in 1987.
Robert Repetto, an economist at the World Resources Institute in Washington who has pioneered techniques in environmental or "green" accounting, was equally enthusiastic. "This is a valuable thing to do," he said, "even if it can only be done relatively crudely."
Economic development policies have generally been geared toward increasing physical capital -- bricks, concrete, machines. While it was implicitly understood that education, health, social organization and the environment also matter, the payback from such investments are much harder to measure and hence have often been undervalued by economists, said Ismail Serageldin, a vice president of the World Bank.
The bank, which has faced heavy criticism during the last decade for its tunnel-vision embrace of dams and power plants, has responded by modifying its lending policies. More money is now going into intangible investments like education and wilderness preservation, and relatively less into pouring concrete and clearing forests. And the bank's born-again-green management is now trying to broaden its perspective of development economics still further. After the 1992 environmental summit in Rio de Janeiro, it financed a special project to supplement standard national economic accounts with estimates of heretofore unmeasured assets like natural and mineral resources.
The major goal has been to assess the sustainability of development by what Mr. Solow called the test of "old-fashioned New England values": whether a country's total wealth is growing. By definition, wealth must increase if a country consumes less than it produces -- in other words, if it saves. However, since much of an economy's productive assets are not included in traditional accounting, standard estimates of savings can mislead.
Take the case of Norway, which increased its stock of physical capital by about 10 percent annually in the late 1980's, a seemingly robust rate. But roughly four-fifths of that investment was offset by depletion of Norway's reserves of oil and gas, suggesting that Norway's total wealth was barely growing.
The bank saw its task as generating more comprehensive estimates of wealth that could be compared across time. Its starting point was existing estimates of physical or "produced" capital. Bank economists then added estimates of "natural" capital, a combination of land (divided into categories of use, including protected natural habitat), fossil-fuel deposits, other mineral wealth and clean water.
Last but hardly least, the researchers included a catchall category for wealth embodied in human skills, health and social organization. To assay this least tangible form of wealth, they calculated the value of future output left over after payments for natural and produced capital, much the way an investment banker measures the value of a corporation by capitalizing the value of expected future revenue left over after expenses.
Measuring national wealth with the addition of these novel yardsticks led to counterintuitive results. Consider Portugal, which at $141,000 per person ranks a relatively high 41st out of 192 economies in terms of wealth. The value of all physical capital in the economy, derived by averaging earlier estimates, was put at $153 billion. Portugal has an estimated $102 billion worth of natural capital, roughly two-thirds of which consists of farmland. But both are dwarfed by the bank's estimate of human and social capital: $1.176 trillion.
The relative importance of human and social capital in Portugal is apparently closer to the norm than one might expect. Of the estimated United States wealth of $421,000 per person, physical capital is just 16 percent of the total, natural capital just 25 percent. All told, physical and natural capital each represent just one-sixth of the world's $390 trillion in wealth as estimated by the bank. The rest is locked in the labor, ingenuity and economic culture of the human actors.
In economies with large and diverse sources of wealth, the fact that the depletion of minerals offsets most or all of physical investment may not be a problem. These countries, suggested Theo Panayoutou of the Harvard Institute for International Development, are shuffling their "portfolios" like an individual investor who decides to sell stocks to buy bonds.
Nonetheless, inattention to the component of natural wealth that is associated with the environment may ultimately limit the potential of otherwise healthy development. As countries grow richer their citizens typically place increasing value on green capital, Mr. Panayoutou noted. And while some forms of environmental depletion are reversible -- it is possible to clean up rivers and urban air -- wilderness and biodiversity may be lost forever.
The bank's comprehensive-wealth accounting reveals a clearer danger to low-income countries like Nigeria, Ethiopia and Kenya, where the depletion of the environment and sale of natural assets dwarf additions to physical capital. Indeed, it captures the continuing economic catastrophe of sub-Saharan Africa, which the bank calculates has lost wealth in every year since the mid-1970's. "These countries are papering income by selling off the family jewels," said Paul Portney, a vice president of Resources for the Future in Washington.
Some economists wonder whether the green accountants' reach exceeded their grasp. In some cases, the need for nearly arbitrary assumptions is obvious. For example, in calculating the value of different sorts of land across nations and continents, the bank weights pasture at three-eighths the value of cropland and adds a 50 percent bonus for protected wilderness.
Would other methods of calculating wealth radically change the results? It is not clear. "The devil is in the details," concluded Mr. Panayoutou of Harvard.
In other cases the bank's assumptions may be plausible, but could still prove far off the mark. The value of mineral wealth, for example, is apparently based on current extraction costs and current market prices, an assumption that has proved wrong in the past. "In spite of predictions of doom, natural resources have not grown scarcer since the 1960's," noted Robert Hahn, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute.
But few economists deny the symbolic or the practical importance of the bank's radical departure from traditional national economic accounting. Mr. Portney applauded the bank's stated intent to use the numbers conservatively, as a means of focusing attention on long-term trends in human capital investment, natural resource management and national savings. The trick in pushing the envelope on green accounting, he argued, is "knowing what you can do with it."
Even the serious skeptics are prepared to be convinced. "The first results do pass the sniff test," Mr. Hahn conceded.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Haves and the Have-Nots" lists the wealth of selected countries in 1990, in order of per capita wealth. (Source: World Bank) (pg. C12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (50%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (66%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA; CANADA; JAPAN; ETHIOPIA; CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NIGERIA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; METALS AND MINERALS; ENVIRONMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RANKINGS (75%); TRENDS (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); WILDERNESS (60%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); POWER PLANTS (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER ROBERT M SOLOW (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



382 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2060 words

HEADLINE: Bizarre Parasite Invades Trout Streams, Devastating Young Rainbows

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

DATELINE: ENNIS, Mont.

 BODY:
RAINBOW trout and the Madison River were made for each other. Bold and sometimes reckless, stout-hearted and acrobatic when hooked, the pink-striped rainbow is the pre-eminent native American trout, and it has long thrived spectacularly in the powerful currents and chaotic, boulder-strewn riffles of what some people consider the finest wild trout stream in the contiguous 48 states.
"This was the classic rainbow water," Fred Nelson, a state fisheries biologist, said as he and two fishing companions paused to take in the scene: the sun glistening off the rushing river, the cloudless cobalt sky, the sharply etched mountain peaks in the distance. It almost made up for the fly fishers' total lack of success; no one had caught a trout. In fishing, that sometimes happens. But things are sadly different on the Madison these days. "It's real noticeable that you just don't catch rainbows like you used to," Mr. Nelson said. 
 In fact, the Madison's renowned population of magnificent wild rainbows is crashing, victimized by an exotic parasite that nobody yet knows just how to combat. In prime rainbow habitat, the species' numbers have plummeted in the last four years to 10 percent of what they were. "Out here we say the Vandals have broken into the cathedral of fly-fishing," said Dr. Karl M. Johnson, a virologist who in the 1970's discovered the Ebola virus as a human killer and who now is one of many experts grappling with whirling disease. He moved here for the fishing, and his expertise has made him a central figure in the struggle to understand the scourge.
Whirling disease gets its name because the parasite, a tiny animal organism with a bizarre life history straight out of "Alien," often drives young trout to a frenzy of frantic tail-chasing before they die. Not only the Madison is affected; the parasite has infected many streams in the Rocky Mountains, on both sides of the Continental Divide, and there are fears that it could eventually wipe out not only most strains of rainbows but also the cutthroat -- the trout of Lewis and Clark -- in much of the West. The cutthroat is an important forage item of many other animals, including the threatened grizzly bear.
The parasite has been documented in at least 20 states from coast to coast, including New York, although only a few have so far experienced trout population declines. Here in the Rockies, the infestation typically advances downstream 15 to 20 miles a year, and once infected a river apparently is infected for good. No one knows for sure how far the infestation will spread. "I think we can only speculate," said Dr. Johnson, "but you probably have to start out with the reasonable assumption that sooner or later it's going to spread downstream" through the entire Missouri River watershed of which the Madison is a part. In many areas, he fears, rainbows "are going to get slaughtered."
Wildlife biologists say that what is happening here is a striking illustration of the way in which humans are stirring the evolutionary pot around the world. Rainbow trout never encountered whirling disease before the parasite was inadvertently transplanted here from Europe, and unlike their European cousins, the brown trout, they apparently have evolved no widespread immunity to it. Rainbow populations will either adapt, as the European cousins presumably did in ancient times, or die out. The West could be witnessing an especially dramatic instance of natural selection in action, said Richard Vincent, the regional fish manager for the State of Montana, whose studies of Madison River trout populations have made it one of the best-documented streams anywhere.
In nature, if enough members of a species carry genes that enable them to resist disease or any other environmental threat to survival, descendants of those members will eventually multiply and take over the population, which may then re-expand. If there are no resistance genes, the population may disappear. It is not yet known whether any rainbow strains are resistant to whirling disease, but some portents are grim: biologists note that in some reaches of the Colorado River, the disease appears to have wiped out all but 1 percent of the population of young rainbows, bringing it to the verge of local extinction.
How it all comes out has important economic implications for the new economy of the West, based as it is not so much on mining, ranching and logging these days as on the attraction of its natural splendors for visitors, retirees and businesses.
One saving grace is that the Madison and other affected streams still have healthy populations of brown trout, equally magnificent game fish. In this evolutionary context it is dominant. Browns not only have adapted successfully to whirling disease, they also are acting as permanent, healthy host reservoirs from which the parasite can spread to the much larger populations of rainbows. The browns, European natives, are thus shouldering aside the American rainbows as the primary game fish of the Madison, at least for now. Browns are larger on average, too. The only problem is that there are only about half as many browns as there used to be rainbows, and they are wilier and harder to catch. Will anglers take their money elsewhere? Some fishing guides report a drop in business this year, but it is not clear whether whirling disease is responsible.
Most trout waters are still unaffected even in Montana, where, according to a preliminary report by a special state task force, the disease has been confirmed in 10 locations. The fear is for the long term, and the fate of the Madison has focused attention as perhaps nothing else might.
Rainbows are native to the Pacific watersheds of North America and Asia and were introduced into the Madison about a century ago. Browns from Europe were introduced at about the same time; Buffalo Bill Cody, the Wild West showman, is said to have planted one batch of browns. Two decades ago, Montana eliminated stocking on the Madison and other streams and began managing these waterways as wild trout fisheries. The result: Large populations of big, wild rainbows and browns blossomed and turned the state into a fly-fishing mecca.
Mr. Vincent was intimately involved in establishing the wild fishery, but in 1991 population surveys found that rainbow numbers in the upper Madison, where the rushing-water habitat is most favorable for the species, had dropped. From then until last year the population in the survey area shrank from about 3,300 to about 300, and the decline is moving steadily downstream. Browns, meanwhile, have remained stable at about 1,500 per mile. "It was a shock to all of us" when the latest numbers came out last fall, says Tom Anacker, a lawyer in Bozeman, Mont., who is a founder of a newly organized Whirling Disease Foundation and member of the state task force.
It was not until last December, however, that Dr. Beth MacConnell, a histologist and pathologist for the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in Bozeman, identified the cause as whirling disease. The confirmation of the parasite's presence in Montana and Colorado raised alarms as they had not been raised before. Until then, "it wasn't thought you'd lose a lot of fish" to the disease, said Peter Rafle, a spokesman for Trout Unlimited, an angling and conservation group that has taken a leading role in spreading the alarm.
The disease is produced by a microscopic water-borne protozoan, harmless to humans, called Myxobolus cerebralis. Its spores are released into the water when infected fish die and decompose or are consumed and excreted by predators and scavengers. The spores may live in mud on stream and lake bottoms for up to 30 years, until they are ingested by a tiny, red, threadlike host called the tubifex worm. In the worm's gut, the spores are converted to the form of the parasite that affects the trout.
This form's true name is Triactinomyxon, "but we call it the grappling hook," said Dr. Johnson, who describes it as having "a head loaded like a shotgun shell" containing 64 infectious spores each about the size of a red blood cell. Appendages that look like grappling hooks make contact with the gills or skin of a fish, and the spores are injected. By eating a single tubifex worm, a trout can be infected by thousands of spores.
The spores attack the developing cartilage of young fish; older fish, in which cartilage has turned to bone, appear unaffected. How the spores kill young fish is not entirely clear. Dr. Johnson believes that the fish "just puts tremendous energy into attempting to kill off all the spores" and can no longer deal with all the other stresses it must cope with in the wild environment. The tail-chasing, he said, apparently results from an inflammatory response when the parasite reaches cartilage in the head, where the fish's balance organs are located.
The parasite vaulted across the Atlantic, scientists believe, in a shipment of frozen trout fillets from Denmark in 1956. Scientists are not sure how it got into wild American waters, but the disposal of contaminated fish parts is suspected.
Only recently has the disease become a serious problem in America. It has cropped up most prominently in trout hatcheries and apparently spread into the wild when hatchery fish were released. Dr. Johnson, who heads the scientific subcommittee of the Montana state task force on whirling disease, believes that the improved technology of transporting fish may have accelerated the trend.
In Montana, which relies primarily on the reproduction of wild fish, no parasites have yet been discovered in hatcheries. No one knows just how they got into the Madison and other waters, but illegal stocking is suspected.
In Colorado, where most drainages have been stocked from hatcheries, the impact has been widespread. Except for one or two drainages in western Colorado, all drainages in the state have been affected, said R. Barry Nehring, a state fisheries biologist who is the co-author of a definitive report on whirling disease in that state. The spread of the parasite has so far caused population declines of rainbow trout in only six rivers or streams, but one of them is the Colorado.
The parasite was found last fall in some New York state hatcheries and a few widely scattered streams, including a tributary of the fabled Beaverkill-Willowemoc system, the cradle of American fly fishing. All fish in the infected hatcheries were destroyed, and monitoring of streams is continuing. So far no population crashes have taken place, but it is unclear whether New York will escape or whether the full force of the outbreak is yet to come. "We're not sure where we are, frankly," said Phil Hulbert, a biologist who heads the Department of Environmental Conservation's cold-water fisheries unit.
While many questions remain unanswered, it seems clear that the whirling disease parasite is here to stay. "You're not going to get rid of the brown trout and the worms, which means you're going to have it forever," said Dr. Johnson. The big question, he said, is whether "we are going to be able to do anything rather than document it and watch the population die."
Montana is developing a list of practical suggestions for trying to contain the parasite. For example: remove all mud and aquatic plants from boats, trailers and waders and boots. Do not transport live fish, an illegal activity in this state in any case. Do not dispose of fish or fish parts where they can reach any water supply.
One possible long-term strategy is to introduce in the Rockies a strain of California rainbows known to be resistant to a native parasite similar to M. cerebralis, on the theory that there is a reasonable chance those trout will be resistant to whirling disease as well. Dr. Johnson says this possibility offers at least "a shot" at dealing with the disease.
Mr. Vincent favors letting nature take its course in the hope that the few remaining Madison rainbows will be resistant and that the population can be rebuilt from them. Dr. Johnson has his doubts. It may be, he says, that the survivors are not resistant but were merely lucky in not contracting the disease; and even if they are resistant, he says, it would take a long time for the population to rebuild naturally -- "beyond our lifetime and our children's."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Right, Richard Vincent and Beth MacConnell in Madison River in Montana, a famous trout stream. (Rob Outlaw for The New York Times); Worms that carry parasites. (Dr. Beth MacConnell); Above, rainbow trout with black tail, sign of whirling disease. (Dr. Beth MacConnell/U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service) (PG. C9)
 
Drawing (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (62%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (62%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (62%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (62%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (62%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (62%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; TROUT; MYXOBOLUS CEREBRALIS; WHIRLING DISEASE; FISHING, SPORT; PARASITES SPORT FISHING (90%); FISHES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); MAMMALS (77%); MOUNTAINS (74%); TROPICAL DISEASES (71%); FISHERIES (71%); VIROLOGY (69%); POPULATION DECLINE (57%); VIRUSES (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



383 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Security Flaw Discovered In Netscape Software
Netscape, maker of the most popular software for computer transactions over the Internet's World Wide Web, said it would replace its software after a serious security flaw was discovered that could enable a knowledgeable criminal to break Netscape's security coding system. 
 The flaw means that no one using the software can be certain of protecting credit card information or bank account numbers that Netscape is supposed to keep private during on-line transactions. [Page A1.]
 
I.B.M. is expected to sign a licensing agreement with Netscape that involves using Netscape's Navigator browser software on Prodigy, the on-line service I.B.M. owns with Sears, as well as for I.B.M.'s own on-line efforts. [D21.]
 
Business Inventories Up 0.3%
Business inventories rose 0.3 percent in July to $962.83 billion, a sign that businesses were having trouble getting inventories into line with generally soft sales. [D2.]
 
The inventory report lifted the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond to 6.53 percent from 6.48 percent on Friday. [D21.]
 
Financing Setback for Arakis Deal
A crucial $750 million in financing for Arakis Energy's project to develop oilfields in the Sudan and build a 950-mile pipeline there collapsed, sending the company scrambling to negotiate a backup deal. [D2.]
 
Adobe Stock Falls on Earnings
Adobe Systems reported a 63 percent rise in third-quarter earnings, but the results fell below the average Wall Street estimate and pushed Adobe shares down $1.75, to $49, in after-hours trading. [D10.]
 
$3 Billion Utility Merger in Britain
Powergen agreed to buy Midlands Electricity for $3.02 billion. That would create the first union of a company that generates electricity with a distributor since Britain privatized the industry in 1990. [D6.]
 
Texaco Finds Oil in 3 Wells
Texaco said it had found oil and gas in three wildcat wells it drilled in the Gulf of Mexico, in areas that most major oil companies had considered played out. [D2.]
 
Magazine Urges Court to Lift Order
Executives of Business Week magazine said they would go to a Justice of the United States Supreme Court to seek a stay of what they claim is an unconstitutional order from a Federal court that barred the magazine from publishing an article last week. [B7.]
 
G.D.P. in Japan Rises 0.8%
Japan's gross domestic product expanded in the second quarter for the first time in three quarters, rising eight-tenths of 1 percent, or at an annual rate of 3.1 percent. In a separate report, the Government said Japan's trade surplus declined 1.3 percent during August, largely because of an unexpected decline in auto exports. [D6.]
Bill Would Alter Mine Agency
Congress is considering a bill that would shrink the Mine Safety and Health Administration and strip it of its independence. The sponsor of the bill says it will save the Government money, but miners' advocates says it will hamper safety. [A14.]
 
New Measure for National Wealth
A new system for measuring national wealth that values natural and mineral resources has been developed by the World Bank. Australia, at $835,000 a person, comes out first; Japan, at $565,000, fifth, and the United States, at $421,000, 12th. Ethiopia is last, with a national per-capita wealth of $1,400. [C1.]
 
British Airways to Upgrade
British Airways announced an $800 million program to improve service on its long-haul flights. The airline plans, among other things, to add semi-enclosed first-class compartments, with seats that can be converted into beds. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (92%); IBM (NYSE) (92%); IBM (LSE) (92%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (85%); ADB (FRA) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (92%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (87%); INTERNET BROWSERS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (71%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (65%); LEGISLATION (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (60%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (60%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (56%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



384 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
MAJOR SHIFT IN BOSNIA
With recent battlefield gains by the Bosnian Government, land holdings are approaching the almost equal split envisioned by the peace negotiators, but the fighting is putting peace talks in danger. A1
 
SERB STRONGHOLD AT RISK
The Bosnian Serb military vowed to take a stand at a stronghold with Government troops closing in and the area filled with refugees, fearing that a loss would mean the end of their republic in Bosnia. A10
 
STRUGGLE FOR LAND IN BRAZIL
A bloody confrontation between squatters and troops aided by landowners' hired guns shows the failure of an effort to equalize distribution of Brazil's land. A1
 
NO NEW TERM FOR HAITI LEADER
The President of Haiti confirmed that he will step down when his term ends next year, consistent with a pledge made to the United States, despite pressure from his followers to stay in office. A5
 
AN EARTHQUAKE'S LEGACY
Many stories are still told of the earthquake that hit Mexico city 10 years ago, but the major one is that the inability of the Government to cope weakened the stranglehold that it had on the people. A3
 
DELAY IN PALESTINIAN PACT
Negotiators were not able to complete the agreement for expanding Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank, postponing a signing ceremony, but talks continued to try to remove a last obstacle. A13
 
A preliminary settlement to aid Philippine dictator's victims. A6
 
With a democratic victory in Hong Kong, a threat from China. A8
 
An Iraqi defector has become an albatross to Jordan. A13
 
Edwardsburgh Journal: In Ontario, a bridge too dear.A4
 
National A14-19, B7
 
BOMBER'S WORDS ARE PUBLISHED
At the request of the Federal authorities, and with the concurrence of The New York Times, The Washington Post is publishing the manifesto of the serial killer known as the Unabomber in the hope of ending his campaign of killing. A1
 
CLINTON DEFENDS CREDIT FOR POOR
The President attacked Republican proposals to cut tax breaks for low-income families, warning that he might veto any such plan as "inconsistent with those basic, bedrock values this country should be standing for." A1
 
THREAT TO ON-LINE SHOPPING
A security flaw has been discovered in Netscape, the most popular software for computer transactions over the Internet, threatening to cast a chill over the emerging market for electronic commerce.A1
 
EFFORT TO CURB MINE AGENCY
Under legislation now in Congress, the Mine Safety and Health Administration would be stripped it of its independence and ability to make unannounced inspections. A14
 
RICHMOND OFFICIAL RESIGNS
A Richmond councilman resigned after officials said he had been videotaped selling heroin. A14
 
CHAOS AT SIMPSON TRIAL
As the Simpson case nears completion, prosecutors completed their rebuttal -- conditionally. A15
 
GINGRICH ETHICS CASE PROGRESSES
The House ethics committee has decided to begin interviewing lawyers to be the outside counsel for its inquiry of Newt Gingrich. A16
 
NEW DRIVE FOR TERM LIMITS
Several groups advocating term limits are starting a drive in the states for a constitutional convention, a laborious process that could last a decade. A17
 
FLORIDA'S NEW ROLE IN CAMPAIGN
Florida is emerging as one of the most consequential early states in Presidential politics for Republicans and Democrats alike. A17
 
CLINTON BEGINS TOUR
The President embarked on a five-day trip that will mix raising campaign money with an effort to rally public opinion against the Republican budget-balancing plan. A19
 
TOURISM IMPERILED IN ST. THOMAS
In the wake of Hurricane Marilyn, there is a fear of a monstrous economic impact for St. Thomas, which depends on tourism for two-thirds of its economy. B7
 
Metro Digest B1
 
RAVITCH WITHDRAWS AS CANDIDATE
Richard Ravitch, Mayor Giuliani's top choice to lead New York City's public schools, withdrew his name from consideration as Chancellor, saying that the school system needed fundamental change. A1
 
SECURITY TIGHT FOR FALL VISITS
The Secret Service is assembling the largest protective task force of Federal agents in history to respond to security needs in New York City this fall, like the visit of the Pope and of 140 world leaders attending United Nations meetings.A1
 
Science Times C1-12
 
Rainbow trout threatened by bizarre parasitic invasion. C1
A delicate balance for a conference on genes and violence. C1
A 'green' approach to the wealth of nations. C1
An easier way to zero in on the Ebola virus. C3
Endangered turtles get a head start at Cornell University C4
Q&A C7
Personal Computers C8, C10
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
Philharmonic opening and contract ending coincide. C13
Paul Bowles in New York. C13
"Jewish Short Stories." C13
Television: "Murder One." C13
Theater: "Blink of an Eye." C14
Music: Clapton in concert. C14
Comparing Bartok and Stravinsky. C18
Dance: Talley Beatty tribute. C14
Coyote Dancers. C18
Photography: How Life covered the Pacific War. C18
Books: "The Book of Color," by Julia Blackburn. C17
 
Sports B10-15
 
Baseball: Yanks win. B11
Is it a new field of dreams? B11
Mets fall to Braves. B13
Basketball: Mason wants in, Coleman out. B13
Column: Araton on the Giants. B11
On Pro Football B14
On Baseball B13
Football: Reeves tied in knots. B11
Jets' Brady is making his mark. B14
 
Fashion Page B9
 
Flip-flop: The street leads the runway. Patterns
 
Business Digest D1
 
Obituaries B8
 
Helen K. Nearing, author.
William Franklin, executive.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
The Speaker vs. the city.
Hong Kong votes for democracy.
Evaluating universities.
An uncharitable act.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Death in the family.
A. M. Rosenthal: A gift from Powell.
John Kenneth Galbraith: Blame history, not the liberals.
Joe Queenan: More Powell maxims.
 
Chronicle B2
 
Chess B6
 
Crossword C18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BRAZIL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); HAITI (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); JORDAN (70%); CANADA (68%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (68%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (51%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BRAZIL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); HAITI (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); JORDAN (70%); CANADA (68%); ONTARIO, CANADA (68%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ETHICS (87%); INSPECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); VETO (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); EARTHQUAKES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (72%); REFUGEES (71%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (68%); HOMICIDE (67%); MURDER (67%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (61%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); INTERNET RETAILING (60%); FAMILY (60%); HEROIN (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (71%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



385 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Planning Commission Approves Limits on Sex Businesses by Slim Margin

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Reflecting deep division over the issue of governmental zoning of sex-related businesses, the City Planning Commission voted narrowly yesterday to approve a broad set of restrictions on where adult entertainment establishments can legally operate. The matter now goes to the City Council, which is scheduled to vote on it in November, after public hearings next month.
The zoning changes, which were approved on a 7-to-6 vote, would sharply limit the number and concentration of sex businesses and would banish them to designated areas in Manhattan and along the peripheries of other boroughs. 
 Yesterday's vote, although not the final approval of the measures, nonetheless represented the last lap in a process that included months of public testimony and emotional debate. The plan was approved largely along political lines, with support coming from the appointees of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the borough presidents of Queens and Staten Island. The six dissenters were the appointees of the previous Mayor, David N. Dinkins, the Public Advocate and the borough presidents of Manhattan, Brooklyn and the Bronx.
"This plan places an undue burden on certain communities," said Amanda M. Burden, a commissioner appointed by the Public Advocate, Mark J. Green. "It jeopardizes our waterfront citywide, and it raises substantial questions regarding enforcement."
Maxine Griffith, a commissioner appointed by Mr. Dinkins, said she had constitutional concerns.
After the vote, Joseph B. Rose, the commission's chairman, said, "No longer will New York City's residential communities be threatened with the crime, litter and economic blight which these businesses attract." Mr. Rose, a Giuliani appointee, said the regulations "guarantee that there will be no red light districts anywhere in New York City."
The measures approved yesterday have undergone some modifications since they were proposed by the Giuliani administration last year. The most significant change from the original proposal was a 40 percent expansion in the areas of Manhattan where sex shops would be allowed. That change came in response to criticism from residents outside Manhattan, who complained that the measures would drive sex-related businesses to their boroughs.
The revised plan leaves intact provisions barring sex establishments from operating within 500 feet of residential areas, schools and places of worship, and within 500 feet of one another. But it eliminates a requirement to establish a 500-foot buffer zone between areas where adult establishments are allowed and the high-density commercial areas where they would be prohibited.
Joan Griffin McCabe, a City Councilwoman from Brooklyn who has opposed the new zoning regulations, said the closeness of the Planning Commission vote was a "clear indication of the bumpy roads the issue will have at the Council level."
But Peter F. Vallone, the Council Speaker, issued a statement praising the commission's vote. He said it "insures that our neighborhoods will be protected and that First Amendment concerns are carefully addressed." The measure is considered likely to pass the Council easily. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); CITY COUNCIL (89%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (89%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; ZONING APPROVALS (92%); CITIES (91%); ZONING (90%); MAYORS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); OBSCENITY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



386 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Rockefeller Center Tenants Won't Be Homeless

 BODY:
To the Editor:
At first glance the decisions of the Mitsubishi Estate Company to abandon its interest in Rockefeller Center ("Japanese Scrap $2 Billion Stake in Rockefeller," news article, Sept. 12) and of the Half Moon Real Estate company to walk away from 343 St. Nicholas Ave. in Harlem (news article, Sept. 9) appear worlds apart. But are they? 
 In both cases investors were willing to pay excessive prices and endure low or no cash returns in anticipation of large windfalls from refinancing or selling these properties in a rapidly escalating speculative market. Both investors followed the first rule of real estate investment: use other people's money. The result in each case is a property so burdened by debt it cannot be operated economically.
The difference is that few doubt that the well-heeled commercial tenants of Rockefeller Center will weather this storm. We have good reason to be less sanguine about the residents of 343 St. Nicholas and thousands of other privately owned apartment buildings in New York City's low-income communities.
In 1992, we conducted a study of the private residential rental markets in four low-income communities in New York City. We found that in Central Harlem more than 26 percent of properties with five or more apartments had property tax arrears of three or more quarters, up from just under 16 percent in 1988. Anecdotal evidence suggests that this trend continues and may be accelerating. The city's decision to stop foreclosing on owners in real estate tax default flies in the face of the day-to-day reality of families caught up in the complex web of economic abandonment you describe.
With more than one in four buildings in one of the city's poorest communities at risk of abandonment, terminating foreclosure is shortsighted and ineffective. The city will be temporarily relieved of the cost of managing and rehabilitating thousands of abandoned properties. But in the long term, the economic and social cost of resulting homelessness will simply be transferred to our already beleaguered health care, social service and justice systems.
A well-maintained stock of affordable rental housing is critical to the well-being of the entire city. Halting tax foreclosure without replacing it with a range of policy measures, including code enforcement, housing preservation grants and loans, homelessness prevention programs and lender regulatory reforms, seriously jeopardizes the thousands of low income families, already abandoned by their landlords and now spurned by the city.
 
JOSEPH WEISBORD
BRIAN T. SULLIVAN
Brooklyn, Sept. 11, 1995
The writers are, respectively, a visiting assistant professor and an associate professor at Pratt Institute.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: 8802 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (92%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (92%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (92%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (92%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (92%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (92%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (92%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (92%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO; HALF MOON REAL ESTATE CO MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO; HALF MOON REAL ESTATE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (87%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); WRITERS (73%); FAMILY (73%); TRENDS (65%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (60%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); 

PERSON: WEISBROD, JOSEPH; SULLIVAN, BRIAN T

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



387 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Rockefeller Center Tenants Won't Be Homeless;
Missing Scandal

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As an owner of a commercial real estate company and corporate trainer, I was fascinated by Steven R. Weisman's Editorial Notebook on Rockefeller Center (Sept. 14). He proposes a story of financial manipulation and social irresponsibility on the part of the Rockefeller family, particularly David Rockefeller, but this is not the story that emerges. 
 The story of Rockefeller Center is driven by virtually the same circumstances that befell investors in smaller properties of less than $1 million (as well as $1 billion properties) during the 1980's and 90's. What Mr. Weisman actually underscores is the economic indifference of the marketplace. Even name properties connected to David Rockefeller and the Mitsubishi Corporation are not immune from inflation in value and rapid decline.
If there were to be a truly scandalous real estate story here, it would be that Rockefeller Center maintained its value when the dramatic trend was downward.
Thankfully, that is not the case -- David Rockefeller and Mitsubishi have lived the same economic lives, albeit on a higher plane, as the smaller investors who have won and lost in the American marketplace.
 
RICHARD FOSTER
Emeryville, Calif., Sept. 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MBC (LSE) (83%); 8058 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (83%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HOMELESSNESS (74%); 

PERSON: FOSTER, RICHARD DAVID ROCKEFELLER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



388 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Mexico Makes a Pitch, but Wall St. Is Wary

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
Guillermo Ortiz, Mexico's Finance Minister, is visiting New York this week to try to bolster investors' uncertain confidence in his country. This time he can at least leave his handkerchief in his pocket.
During Mexico's financial crisis around the turn of the year, Mr. Ortiz was famous for pulling out his hanky to mop his brow when the pressures, the arc lights and the questions grew intense. That was frequently the case, and not least when Mr. Ortiz visited New York in January and March to soothe frazzled financiers who had lost millions of dollars on their Mexican investments after the peso collapsed in December. 
 "The tone is a lot more relaxed and confident," said Jorge O. Mariscal, a vice president at Goldman, Sachs & Company, discussing Mr. Ortiz's presentation to investors yesterday at the Inter-Continental Hotel in Manhattan. But Mr. Mariscal added: "I thought it was a fairly good presentation of the plans that the Government has going forward. But unfortunately we don't have a lot of record yet that shows that these projections will come true."
It will clearly take more time for international financiers to regain their confidence in Mexican markets, shattered when the peso lost more than 50 percent of its dollar value last December.
"He told a good story, but the story isn't making people feel they need to run out and buy Mexican equities." said Susan R. Hertzberg, a manager partner at the Latin Tactical Trading Group L.P., a New York hedge fund. "The buzz I am getting is that people are pleased at how he told the story, but the concern is how will he get the economy growing again. Without consumption how are we going to get growth?"
Mr. Ortiz tried to put a brave face on the hesitancy of international investors. Even though he acknowledged that foreign portfolio investment was a lot less than it was in 1993 and 1994, Mr. Ortiz contended that "compared to the rest of the emerging markets, it isn't bad at all." He added, "We have already raised $3 billion in the international financial markets" through a series of borrowings this year. And Mexico may revisit those markets later this year for borrowings of up to $500 million, Mr. Ortiz said.
"It's impressive that they've adhered to their economic program," said Lacey W. Gallagher, a sovereign debt analyst with Standard & Poor's, the rating agency, referring to the austere economic plan in place the last six months. But the depth of the Mexican recession makes it increasingly difficult for the country to hold to austerity, she said. Standard & Poor's is keeping its Mexican ratings on "negative outlook" at DD for the country's foreign exchange debt and BBB+ for peso debt, Ms. Gallagher said.
The news that Mr. Ortiz brings on this visit is certainly better than at the beginning of the year. Mexico's economic crisis has passed, at least for the moment. At the cost of deep recession and high unemployment, Mexico has restored stability to its financial markets. "The risk of insolvency is behind us," Mr. Ortiz said, and he laughed nervously as he recalled to investors that early this year, George Soros, the international financier, had told him that there was a 50 percent chance that Mexico would default.
In the first seven months of the year, Mexico ran a trade surplus of $3.4 billion, Mr. Ortiz told investors, foreign exchange reserves stand at $15 billion, up from below $6 billion in January, and Mexico has made strides in paying down its debt. The country has also drawn about half its $50 billion of financial aid. Already, some fearless investors have benefited, Mr. Ortiz was quick to point out.
But unemployment has ballooned and Mexico's economy will contract by 5 percent this year, the minister said, considerably more than the 2 to 4 percent that was originally projected. The challenge now is how to attract the capital Mexico needs to reignite growth, and how to get the economy growing again without a bulging current account deficit, according to several financiers who attended Mr. Ortiz's presentation.
And the financiers want to see more change, too. Mr. Mariscal said he told Mr. Ortiz "that unless there's further progress in the structural reform," investors will remain leery of Mexico, adding: "Changes in the labor code, social security, et cetera, we haven't seen them yet. And if they don't come up with them, the markets aren't going to be willing to finance."
"Mexico has become a 'show me' economy," he concluded.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 1995, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
The Market Place column in Business Day yesterday, about efforts by Mexico to restore investors' confidence, misstated the Standard & Poor's rating for Mexican foreign-exchange debt. It is BB with a "negative outlook"; DD, is not a rating used by S.& P.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Guillermo Ortiz, the Finance Minister of Mexico, who is visiting New York in an effort to bolster investors' uncertain confidence in his country. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; ; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (83%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); TRENDS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: ORTIZ, GUILLERMO (MIN); TRUELL, PETER; MARISCAL, JORGE O GUILLERMO ORTIZ (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



389 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Blame History, Not the Liberals

BYLINE: By John Kenneth Galbraith; John Kenneth Galbraith, whose most recent book is "A Journey Through Economic Time," is professor emeritus of economics at Harvard.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
It is not my inclination to be critical of my fellow liberals; they are sufficiently under attack these days, and in any case one wants to be constant in the faith. But on occasion guilt must be confessed: On matters relating to social and economic legislation and larger reform, we liberals have seriously misled conservatives and especially the Republican legislators of our time. They will suffer from this in the months ahead. I venture to think they are already doing so.
Specifically, we have allowed conservatives and the public at large to credit us with social action that was not our initiative. We were merely accommodating to the great thrust of history. 
 History compelled the changes for which we took, and were given, credit -- and for which we are now being blamed. And history cannot be reversed.
Let me be specific. Sixty-one years ago, I arrived in Washington for a midlevel position of no great consequence in the New Deal. In the years since, a very large amount of liberal legislation has been enacted. The role of government in the affairs of the citizen has been greatly enhanced. But all legislation of any importance was an accommodation to controlling circumstance.
 Until well into this century, Social Security pensions for the old, the greatest of the seeming liberal initiatives, had little role or relevance. The United States was a predominantly rural society. The young on a farm took care of the old. If they didn't, there was the farm to sell, and retirement, given the life expectancy, was generally brief. The same was true in the rural village economy.
Unemployment compensation, the second great initiative, was also irrelevant. There was no unemployment on the early farms or in the villages. Only with industrial development and urbanization did unemployment compensation become a need. It was to this, not ideological compulsion, that liberals reacted.
Health care, now a much disputed matter, was not then a concern, because members of the medical profession had very little to sell. The problem of paying the local doctor was on a par with paying the grocer. It was the enormous modern advance in medical knowledge and in surgical procedures that led to Medicare, Medicaid, managed care and much else. The poor or even the modestly affluent could not decently be consigned to illness or death merely because of inability to pay. Again, government changed in response to changed circumstance.
The simple products of a simple standard of living -- basic food and clothing, elementary housing, even the Model T -- called for little surveillance by the state. There was not much that could be dangerous or dishonest. It was the modern consumer society and its great proliferation of goods and services that brought governmental regulation.
(Accommodation works both ways. The antitrust laws, a much celebrated liberal initiative of earlier times, have now, with widening markets and the competition of global trade, retreated into the shadows.)
It was also the mass production of goods and services that made environmental effects an issue. The rural and early urban economies had little damaging impact on their surroundings.
On all these matters, over the years, we allowed conservatives to believe that we were the initiating force for public action. And there was more.
Until relatively recent times the poor were not with us, at least in any pressing way. They were hidden away in the hills and hollows of the southern Appalachians or in Puerto Rico, Mexico or elsewhere in Latin America. Or, with primitive food, clothing and housing, little chance for education and no civil rights or political voice, they were invisible, unheard, as sharecroppers on the plantations of the old South or in the adjacent villages.
Only when they came to the cities did welfare and associated help become essential. As people cannot be allowed to die for lack of money, so they cannot be allowed to starve surrounded by the affluent and well-fed.
Welfare was not the creation of liberals or even of unwed mothers acting with liberal support and encouragement. It was the result of one of the great migrations of modern times.
Perhaps I have made the point. We liberals adjusted to circumstance, and we allowed conservative Republicans to believe that we were the force for change. Thus their misfortune. They are now persuaded that they can reverse the tide. Were we responsible for the change, they could.
History is something else; it has its own power, its own dynamic. And as those engaged in politics pass from the general rhetoric of recent months to the specifics of particular programs, they increasingly will discover this.
Perhaps we owe them an apology. That, however, would be going a bit too far.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LIBERALISM (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); MEDICARE (72%); POLITICS (71%); MEDICAID (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (69%); URBANIZATION (68%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); 

PERSON: GALBRAITH, JOHN KENNETH

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995



390 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Housing Starts Rise 0.6% As Rates Attract Buyers
Housing starts rose a modest six-tenths of 1 percent in August, bringing the annual rate of new construction to 1.398 million new homes -- the highest annual rate this year as low mortgage rates attracted buyers.
"These numbers indicate a continuing recovery in housing and probably in the economy as a whole during the second half," one economist said. New-home building has been rising since April, and the August rate was the highest since December. [Page D2.]
 
U S West Weighs In on Turner Deal
U S West, which owns 25.5 percent of Time Warner's cable systems and Warner Brothers studio, has told Time Warner that no deal for Turner Broadcasting can be concluded without its approval. Some executives suggested that U S West wanted a controlling stake in the cable division. Time Warner plans to announce a Turner deal later this week, several executives said. [D5.]
 
Rockefeller Center Bid Sweetened
Goldman, Sachs offered to return a $33 million loan payment to Rockefeller Center Properties, apparently to sweeten its bid to buy a controlling interest in the center. [D2.]
 
Novell Said to Plan Unit Sale
Novell Inc. plans to announce today that it will sell its Unixware division to the Santa Cruz Operation, executives said. Hewlett-Packard, which licenses Unix software from Novell, will also be involved, they added. [C8.]
 
House Plan Would Open Pensions
House Republicans moved to let companies take $40 billion out of pension plans for other uses. Republicans estimated the move would bring in $10.5 billion in new tax revenue. [D3.]
 
Caterpillar's Warning Trips Stock
Caterpillar's shares plunged $6.50, to $58.875, in heavy trading after the company's warning Monday evening that it had cut production and that third-quarter earnings would be down from a year ago. But sales are continuing to set records, and the earnings decline may be largely a result of an accounting hiccup. Market Place. [D8.]
 
Foreign-Exchange Market Soars
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York found that in April 1995, daily turnover in the United States foreign-exchange market was $244 billion, up 46 percent from April 1992. [D3.]
 
Committee Approves Arctic Drilling
The House Committee on Resources voted to allow oil and gas drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. [B8.]
 
Argentina and Britain announced a tentative agreement governing the extraction of the oil and gas off the Falkland Islands. [A5.]
 
Russian Concerns May List A.D.R.'s
As many as a dozen Russian companies could list their American depository receipts by year's end following an S.E.C. decision. [D4.]
 
Commerce Department Hangs On
Republicans, intent on dismantling the Commerce Department, are discovering that the agency will not be that easy to kill. [A1.]
 
"I [LOVE] NY" Returns to Broadway
For the first time in more than a decade, the state's tourism promotion, "I Love New York," with its high-recognition "I [LOVE] NY" icon, will focus on Broadway theater as a tourist asset, in a $1 million television and radio campaign that begins tomorrow. The four-note 'I Love New York' musical refrain is back. Advertising. [D5.]
 
Court Rejects McGraw-Hill Appeal
A Federal appeals court dismissed an appeal by McGraw-Hill, parent of Business Week, saying a court order restraining it from publishing information contained in sealed court records was a temporary restraining order over which the appeals court had no jurisdiction. [A18.]

GRAPHIC: Table: "YESTERDAY"

Dow industrials	4,767.04	-13.37	30-yr. Treasury yield	6.48%	-0.05	The dollar	104.43 yen	+1.05	
 
Chart: "TODAY"
 
U.S. Trade Deficit
 July figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -$11.4 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (85%); ARGENTINA (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOVELL INC (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); WARNER BROTHERS STUDIO STORES INTERNATIONAL (56%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); SCO GROUP INC (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (85%); ARGENTINA (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); APPROVALS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (68%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (68%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); OIL EXTRACTION (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); WILDLIFE (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); 

PERSON: TURNER DEAL US WEST (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995



391 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Japan Sets Big Package Of Spending

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, Sept. 20

 BODY:
In its biggest attempt yet to jump-start the stalled Japanese economy -- or at least to keep it from rolling backward -- the Government announced today a package of more than $140 billion in new spending and loan programs aimed at stimulating business.
The new package is considerably bigger than most experts had been expecting in recent days, and it is also bigger than many conservative officials in the Ministry of Finance had originally wanted. But bankers and corporate executives had lobbied heavily for a big jolt to the economy, and the Government officials were apparently unnerved when the stock market dropped on Monday after reports of a more modest package were printed in the local press. 
 But analysts said the ultimate impact would still be modest. The new spending, which includes more than $50 billion in new construction projects and other public works measures, should keep Japan's economy from spiraling downward into a decline, but many experts expect anemic growth this year of half of 1 percent or less.
"It's a lot of sugar, but not much protein," said Robert Alan Feldman, an economist at Salomon Brothers in Tokyo. "A lot of the spending is money that will just turn off at the end of this fiscal year, and they will have to repeat this next year if they want to keep going."
Regardless of the impact of the latest measures, the deeper and more painful debate about Japan's economic identity will continue. At the top of the list of questions is whether the country's big manufacturers, particularly the auto makers, will try to reduce excess capacity by shutting down factories and laying off workers, a move fraught with political hazards. Not far behind is how the banking system will come to terms with its mountain of bad loans, a process that probably means closing insolvent banks and taking hundreds of billions of dollars in write-offs.
The new Government program is also expected to offer only modest proposals to deregulate the economy, despite a growing chorus of complaint from banks and industrial companies that Government regulations are too intrusive and create a big drag on the economy.
Top Government officials have said they strongly favor deregulation, but plan to delay most of those initiatives until later this year or early 1996.
"Fiscal pump priming will only go so far," said Jesper Koll, an economist at J. P. Morgan Securities Asia Ltd. "It is the private sector that will have to bring out the animal spirits."
Continued stagnation would be bad news for the United States. Clinton Administration officials have pressed the Government in Tokyo to do more to stimulate the economy in the hope that a rebound in Japanese consumer demand would cause an increase in imports of American goods and help narrow Japan's wide trade surplus. A narrowing of the trade imbalance, in turn, would weaken the yen further, aiding Japanese exports.
Japan's economy has been stagnant for the last four years, almost as if it collapsed from exhaustion after its superheated expansion during the 1980's. Real estate prices have plunged by more than 50 percent on many properties. The automobile industry has about 30 percent more manufacturing capacity than it needs at the moment.
The official unemployment rate has crept up to 3.2 percent, despite the adherence to "lifetime employment" practices, and those figures do not include women who went back to being housewives or college graduates who decided to stay in school.
"Structural problems need solutions," said Mineko Sasaki-Smith, an economist at Morgan Stanley Japan Ltd. "If you don't account for them, then a 10 trillion or 12 trillion yen stimulus package will be only a temporary panacea. Fiscal policy is not a permanent panacea."
As a practical matter, however, most of the debate in recent days has been about the amount of "mamizu" or "pure water" -- real additions to spending as opposed to reshuffling money -- that will be in the economic stimulus program.
Investment analysts and bankers consider money spent for construction projects and other public works as "pure water." Expanded loan programs for home buyers and small business, by contrast, are not considered "pure water" because most of that money would simply substitute for capital that private banks would lend on their own.
Top bankers have adamantly argued in recent days that the new plan should have at least 5 trillion yen, roughly $50 billion, in real additions to spending. But the staunchly conservative Ministry of Finance has resisted those numbers and made it clear through press leaks that it was looking for a smaller kick of $30 billion to $40 billion.
"This stimulus package is really a patchwork policy, in the sense that we continue to find the Ministry of Finance sharply torn between the budget deficit in Japan and the clear prospect for further economic deterioration," Mr. Koll of J. P. Morgan said.
Japan's budget deficit equals about 4.5 percent of gross domestic product. That exceeds the corresponding figure for the United States budget deficit, which is equivalent to about 2 percent of American output.
Corporate executives were unwilling to comment on the economic package until it was officially released, but many had been pressing for at least 5 trillion yen, or $50 billion, in "pure water" -- which now appears to be likely.
On Tuesday, the Government reported that Japan's economy grew eight-tenths of 1 percent in the second quarter of this year from the previous quarter, or at an annual rate of 3.1 percent. But analysts expressed doubt that growth could continue at such a rate.
Mr. Koll predicted that the Japanese economy would grow by about three-tenths of 1 percent in the 1995 fiscal year, which ends in March, and about 1.5 percent in 1996. Ms. Sasaki-Smith of Morgan Stanley, describing herself as a pessimist, predicted that growth would not exceed one-half percent in 1995.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Japan's Economy" tracks percentage change in gross doemestic product, at annual rate, from the beginning of 1993 through the second quarter of 1995. Also tracked over the same period are the industrial production index for mining and manufacturing, the monthly unemployment rate, and quarterly profits of incorporated buisnesses. (Sources: Datastream; Bloomberg Financial News) (pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); CONSERVATIVE MINISTRY OF FINANCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSERVATIVE MINISTRY OF FINANCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; AUTOMOBILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); BANK FAILURES (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995



392 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: THE 104TH CONGRESS: MEDICAID;
G.O.P. Seeks Cuts to Repair Care Program

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
House Republicans today proposed a transformation of Medicaid, the Federal health program for poor people, that would control costs, eliminate most Federal standards and requirements and give states vast new power to decide who got which health benefits.
The proposal would give each state a fixed amount of Federal money and would repeal the 30-year-old law under which certain categories of people are automatically entitled to health care and health insurance. This guarantee has helped protect poor people in recessions, but has contributed to a quadrupling of Medicaid costs in the last decade. 
 Speaker Newt Gingrich said he expected the House Commerce Committee to approve the legislation this week. "You either act decisively and get things done, or you hang around long enough for all the various special interest groups to mount a big-enough lobbying campaign to stop it," he said.
Democrats denounced the legislation as an assault on children and the elderly, and they demanded public hearings. The Senate is working on a similar bill. Both would abolish the individual right, or entitlement, to health insurance for low-income people and give the states new authority to run the program with minimal Federal regulation.
In many ways, the changes contemplated in Medicaid are more profound than those proposed last week by Republicans for Medicare, the Federal health insurance program for the elderly. The Medicare proposals would save more money: $270 billion over seven years, compared with $182 billion for Medicaid. But elderly people would still be entitled to to their Medicare benefits.
By contrast, the House Republicans' Medicaid bill says that "no person" -- meaning no beneficiary, doctor, hospital or private health plan -- shall have a basis to sue a state for failing to comply with Federal Medicaid statutes or the terms of the state's Medicaid program.
In principle, the Medicaid "block grants" are similar to the welfare block grants that would be created under a separate bill passed today by the Senate and earlier this year by the House. But Medicaid costs about five times as much as welfare and serves 37 million people, more than twice the number on welfare.
The Federal Government is spending $89 billion on Medicaid this year, and states are expected to spend $67 billion. Governors say the financial burden has become unbearable.
The Republican proposal would establish a complex new formula for distributing Federal Medicaid money, based not only on per capita income, but also on the number of poor people, the number of elderly people and the cost of living in each state. While no state would actually lose money, the new formula would generally shift money from the Northeast to the South and the West.
Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah, chairman of the Republican Governors' Association, said that 5 of the 30 Republican governors had "registered objection" to the proposed formula. He identified them as George E. Pataki of New York, Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, John G. Rowland of Connecticut, Arne Carlson of Minnesota and Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania.
Governor Pataki was surprisingly explicit in his criticism of a plan developed by fellow Republicans. "This is not a fair plan for New York," he said. "New York and New Yorkers are willing to pay their fair share, but to ask New Yorkers to do more than their fair share is plain wrong. We have asked our Congressional delegation to oppose this."
In unveiling the Medicaid legislation today, Representative Thomas J. Bliley Jr., a Virginia Republican who is chairman of the House Commerce Committee, said, "Medicaid is broken, and we all know it."
On the other hand, Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who wrote much of the current Medicaid law, said the Republicans had devised "a breathtakingly heartless, radical, extreme proposal." He said it would leave states ill-equipped to deal with recessions and epidemics.
Under the Republican proposal, certain percentages of each state's Federal grant would be earmarked for certain groups of people with low incomes: pregnant women and children, disabled people under 65 and elderly people.
But the Federal Government would not define eligibility under these headings, nor would Congress set a minimum package of benefits, as it has for three decades; states would set eligibility and benefits.
Under the Republican proposal, less than half of Federal Medicaid money would be earmarked for women and children, the elderly and the disabled. States could use the remainder as they wanted to provide health care or related services to needy people. They could, for example, build clinics or buy vaccine.
Under the Republican proposal, states would have to continue spending some of their own money as a condition of receiving Federal Medicaid dollars. But the requirement would be less stringent than under current law.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters from senior citizens groups showed their displeasure yesterday with Republican plans for Medicare. Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, organized the protest outside the Capitol. Democrats also released a videotape on the issue featuring well-known actors. House Republicans proposed a transformation of Medicaid, the health program for the poor, that was also drawing Democrats' ire yesterday. (David Scull/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (78%); MEDICAID (94%); MEDICARE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); MEDICARE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; STATES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAID (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGING (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); COST OF LIVING (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT MICHAEL O LEAVITT (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); HARRY REID (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995



393 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Russian Companies Plan Entry Into U.S. Markets

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
The Russians aren't here yet, but there is little doubt that they're coming.
As many as a dozen Russian companies could list their American depository receipts by the end of the year, thanks to a Securities and Exchange Commission decision last week to take applications from corporations there. 
 "They're in the pipeline; they're within spitting distance," said Dorian Foyil, a senior vice president for Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd., a unit of Franklin Resources, which in June introduced the first American mutual fund to invest exclusively in Russia.
While no Russian companies have yet applied, several are said to be lining up, including Lukoil, a large oil producer; United Energy Systems, the country's major utility; Inkombank, a large bank in Moscow; Atovazbank, a regional bank, and Rostelecom, a phone company.
The primary appeal of these A.D.R.'s, which would typically trade in the over-the-counter "pink sheet" market like shares of small American companies, is their bargain-basement prices. Shares of Russian companies frequently trade at a fraction of the market capitalization of similar corporations in the West, said Tom Adshead, an equity researcher for CS First Boston in Moscow. United Energy Systems, for example, has one-twentieth the market capitalization of a Western utility producing the same amount of electricity.
But the stocks are cheap for a reason. In addition to the overall economic and politic risks they face, Russian companies are generally not as forthcoming with shareholders and do not have managers as experienced as their counterparts in other countries, Mr. Adshead said.
The vast majority of Russian companies with A.D.R.'s will also be exempt from many regulatory rules that apply to American companies. The Russians will not, for example, have to conform with strict accounting standards or have three years of operating history.
This uncertainty has not dampened enthusiasm for the market. "We think Russia is the last spectacular emerging market play of the millenium," Jonathan Hoffman, a director of economics for CS First Boston, said.
But Mr. Foyil of Templeton, Galbraith warned investors not to look for a quick ruble. "It's probably a good gamble for a 10-year time horizon," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: RTKM (RTS) (69%); RKMD (LSE) (69%); BEN (NYSE) (57%); LKOH (RTS) (56%); LKOD (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (69%); SIC1731 ELECTRICAL WORK (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) TEMPLETON GALBRAITH & HANSBERGER LTD (83%); ROSTELECOM OAO (69%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (57%); OAO LUKOIL (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; AMERICAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS (ADRS) DEPOSITORY SERVICES (91%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BONDS (75%); EQUITY RESEARCH (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (63%); 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED TOM ADSHEAD (63%); DORIAN FOYIL (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995



394 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Steady Against the Yen As Tokyo Moves Are Assessed

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar was steady against the yen early today as details of the Japanese Government's new stimulus package emerged.
In morning trading in Tokyo, the dollar was trading at 104.42 yen, holding onto most of yesterday's strong gain. 
 In New York late yesterday, the dollar settled at 104.32 yen after climbing to a 15-month high against the yen as currency dealers bet that the stimulus package and expected intervention by the Bank of Japan would bolster the dollar.
The dollar also rose against most other major currencies yesterday, including the German mark, which drifted upward with the dollar without much else to guide it.
The Japanese Government today announced a package of more than $140 billion in new spending and loan programs aimed at stimulating business.
The 14 trillion yen spending package is much bigger than the market's expectations of a little over 10 trillion yen, but currency dealers in Tokyo said today that they did not expect a wave of dollar-buying to sweep the market.
Still, the dollar continues to be supported by speculation that the central banks will again intervene in the currency markets. Some dealers expect that the Bank of Japan, perhaps in league with the Federal Reserve and other leading central banks, will try to magnify the effects of the stimulus package by buying dollars.
Lisa Finstrom, a currency analyst at Smith Barney, said that while the market had "pretty high hopes" about the Japanese plan it was also "concerned about very heavy intervention on behalf of the dollar."
The Japanese central bank has intervened regularly since July to prop up the dollar and weaken the yen, following a pledge of support from the Group of Seven industrial nations in the spring. On Aug. 15, the United States, Germany and Japan intervened heavily to aid the dollar.
Yesterday, the dollar rose as high as 104.75 yen, its highest since June 7, 1994, when it reached 105.37 yen.
In other currency trading, the dollar rose to 1.4880 marks from 1.4825 marks. The British pound slipped to $1.5473 from $1.5476.
The dollar rose yesterday after comments by Finance Minister Masayoshi Takemura of Japan, who said that the economic package would be about $100 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (95%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); GERMAN MARK (76%); TRENDS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BRITISH POUND (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995



395 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Age of Aristide: Haiti Calmed After a Year

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Sept. 19

 BODY:
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide has many chauffeurs at his disposal, but during the elections on Sunday he chose to drive himself to the polls. He used his car, a heavily bulletproofed blue Chevrolet sedan provided by the United States, to teach a civics lesson to Haitian voters.
"Just as I held the wheel of my car to take me here, these elections are the wheel of the machine of democracy that will take Haitians where they want to go," he said in the Creole tongue of Haiti's poorest people. His statement was quickly broadcast across the country by radio. 
 One year after President Clinton sent 20,000 American troops to Haiti to restore Mr. Aristide to the office that was seized from him in a 1991 military coup, Haiti's President remains surrounded by American armored cars and security guards. But he has retained his almost mystical bond with the millions of Haitians who live in want.
His grass-roots appeal is so broad that he has accumulated unrivaled political power here. He guards it jealously, associates and critics say. But he has used his influence to bring calm and tolerance to a country shattered by three years of military rule and international isolation.
A year ago President Aristide was the unknown at the center of the United States intervention, considered by some in the American Government to be erratic and prone to demagogy. A month after the American troops landed, he left exile in Washington and returned triumphantly to Haiti on Oct. 15, 1994.
Even Administration officials wondered privately if the former Catholic priest would make good on his promise to President Clinton to promote reconciliation, or revert to the polarizing politics of the year he served as President before the coup.
But Mr. Aristide's advisers say his lonely sojourn in Washington forced him to learn the art of compromise and to moderate his oratory.
Now, Haitians say they are living without fear for the first time in decades.
"We walk freely," said Amson Jean-Pierre, 35, an unemployed father of five children who joined a pro-Aristide rally today in front of the National Palace. "We sleep quietly. There are no men who come for us in the night."
On April 28 Mr. Aristide disbanded the last remnants of a discredited army, accused by the United States of killing more than 3,000 Haitians during Mr. Aristide's absence.
He also kept up a steady appeal to his followers to refrain from mob revenge against allies of the fallen military government. The head of the junta, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, went into exile in Panama with many of his associates last October.
Human rights observers from the United Nations and the Organization of American States say that mob retribution virtually stopped within weeks after President Aristide's return. Since then, the observers have detected 20 unexplained killings that may have been politically motivated. The victims included opponents and supporters of Mr. Aristide.
"The President's reconciliation message has fallen on receptive ears," said Colin Granderson, the head of the international observer mission.
Although Mr. Aristide is still despised by many in Haiti's traditional elite, he reached out to business leaders for their help in reviving the prostrate economy, sometimes infuriating his leftist grass-roots followers.
He invites executives to meet and dine at the National Palace and phones them at odd hours to test his ideas about fiscal recovery. He recruited a respected industrial leader, Jean-Edouard Baker, to head a commission to promote new investment.
"This is not the radical priest we knew before," said Lionel Delatour, a business consultant who has worked with Mr. Aristide.
And Leslie Voltaire, Mr. Aristide's American-educated chief of staff, said: "He learned to cut a deal. He saw how his enemies can take his words and use them against him. Now he is very careful of everything he says."
"He has a great capacity for seduction," said Gerard Pierre-Charles, the chief strategist for Mr. Aristide's political party, known as the Lavalas Platform Organization.
Mr. Aristide opened the once forbidding white palace to a stream of constituents. In meetings under the arching ceilings of his palace office, the small-framed President, who is 42, speaks very softly, imposing a hush on his conversations. He talks little, witnesses say, but listens like a therapist with intense concentration.
His security contingent, which is controlled by State Department experts and private American consultants, has blocked him from mixing often with the populace. But his few speeches register powerfully among the poor. He uses folk proverbs and draws the crowd into excited call-and-response litanies. It was Mr. Aristide's idea, his advisers said, to use a welcoming dinner table as his electoral symbol, an image that proved to be a magnet for votes.
Mr. Aristide's popular standing has not diminished, even though he has done little to curb the chaos in Haiti's Government or reorganize the economy. Mounds of garbage still clog the streets of Port-au-Prince. State bureaucracies remain paralyzed. To the President's frustration, investors have remained skeptical, so few new jobs have been created.
Mr. Aristide has no talent for administration, his aides say. He rarely summons his ministers to meetings, but leaves them working blindly in offices scattered about the capital. Diplomats said Mr. Aristide keeps his Prime Minister, Smarck Michel, at arm's length while he governs through a shadow cabinet of close aides in the palace.
Despite his political strength, President Aristide, who has said repeatedly that he intends to step down when his legal term ends next February, is reluctant to loosen his tight grip on Haiti's fledgling democratic system.
"This is not a man who shares power easily," a diplomat said.
In three rounds of elections this year, all politicians associated with pre-Aristide governments were remanded to oblivion by the voters. Only three center-left opposition parties that once sided with Mr. Aristide against the military survived. After many irregularities were reported in the first balloting, on June 25, these parties called on President Aristide to reform an elections council to include their representatives.
Despite United States pressure, he did not promote the reform. The opposition parties boycotted two voting rounds, giving Mr. Aristide's Lavalas party overwhelming majority control of local governments and Parliament.
"Sometimes he acts like a priest who wants to be surrounded only by his own flock," said Jean-Claude Bajeux, the Minister of Culture in Mr. Aristide's Cabinet who is also a leader of Konakom, a party that joined the elections boycott. "We were a family, and he threw us out of the house. Some real friends of Aristide were left on the outside."
One former sympathizer who fell afoul of the President was Evans Paul, who served under Mr. Aristide as Mayor of Port-au-Prince. Mr. Paul was in hiding fleeing from the military during much of Mr. Aristide's exile. But during recent campaigning Mr. Paul made it clear that he was making a new run for Mayor only in preparation to be a candidate to succeed Mr. Aristide in presidential elections expected this fall.
Mr. Aristide threw his backing behind a popular folk singer, Manno Charlemagne, in the mayoral race. Mr. Paul lost, taking only 14 percent of the vote. A Haitian official familiar with Mr. Aristide's thinking said the President had decided that Mr. Paul was not qualified to succeed him.
"He wants a successor who will be as gifted as he is," the official said.
Mr. Aristide continues to regard the United States, and especially President Clinton, as his closest allies. Quite spontaneously, he turned a get-out-the-vote speech last week to a mesmerized crowd of peasants in the rural town of Hinche into a history lesson about Thomas Jefferson and Nathan Hale.
But Mr. Aristide has moved to establish his independence from Washington, as the February 1996 date approaches when the United Nations is to close down its peacekeeping operation, which still includes 2,000 American troops under United Nations command, who took over from the original American troops.
When Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott came to Haiti to press for electoral reform, Haitian officials said, Mr. Aristide warned him that his proposals would not prosper because they were identified as a American-inspired "Talbott plan."
Mr. Aristide is expected to select his party's next presidential candidate, whose victory is thought to be certain. But he is expected to remain as the real power in Haiti, and many people believe that he will run for President again when the Haitian Constitution allows in 2001.
"There is no competition for him," a diplomat said. "It's all his."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Aristide after being thumbprinted at his polling place. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); SEDANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COUPS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995



396 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: An American In Moscow

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Growing up on Long Island, the grandson of Russian immigrants, Boris Jordan was fascinated by his family's native land and dreamed of returning to it, perhaps as an American diplomat. He never imagined becoming one of Russia's most powerful financiers and one of the most influential players in its economic transformation.
Sent to Moscow three and a half years ago by the CS First Boston Corporation, Mr. Jordan and a small group of colleagues built the securities firm into the dominant investment bank in Russia and played a big role in the development of the country's financial markets. 
 But five months ago, after making its Moscow office one of First Boston's most profitable operations in 1994, he walked out, taking with him the co-head of the office, Stephen Jennings, and a half-dozen other traders and investment bankers.
And now, at the age of 29, Mr. Jordan is using his influence, contacts and fluent Russian in an attempt to build a full-service Russian investment bank of his own, putting his reputation on the line and shaking up the fast-evolving securities business here in the process.
His new venture, Renaissance Capital, will be wholly focused on the former Soviet Union and, Mr. Jordan hopes, will become as powerful a presence in the rapidly growing markets here as, say, Goldman, Sachs is in the United States.
His plan says a lot about Mr. Jordan, who is seen by rivals as cocky, aggressive, self-promoting and genuinely passionate about the opportunities presented by Russia's combination of natural wealth and underdeveloped industry. Nobody seems to hold his age against him, perhaps because he has been there as long as any Western banker who came here looking for profit in the birth of Russian capitalism.
However audacious, Mr. Jordan's plan also suggests just how rapidly the securities industry, and the entire economy, is evolving in a country where investment bankers were considered capitalist evil incarnate just a few years ago -- and in some quarters still are.
"Russia's going to be one of the top five economies in the world 20 years from now, and it started the process with no financial services base of any kind of sophistication," Mr. Jordan said.
"I wanted to build a pan-Russian investment banking business where everyone in the firm was focused on that business, and at First Boston, Russia was always going to be priority No. 5, 6, 7," he said. "I wanted to assemble a group of people who would live and die by this market."
To cement his commitment to the venture, Mr. Jordan said he might even apply for Russian citizenship.
Working temporarily from makeshift offices in a former disco in a Moscow hotel, Mr. Jordan, who will be the firm's chief executive, has added to his team of First Boston defectors other Western or Western-trained bankers, traders, analysts and back-office personnel.
But believing that he needs a strong Russian partner and a Russian identity, he is expected to announce formally in the next month a deal that gives a substantial minority stake to ICFI, a holding company that controls Uneximbank, one of Russia's strongest commercial banks, as well as a large stable of industrial companies.
Mr. Jordan's new firm will be going head to head with First Boston, which insists it has not been harmed by his defection.
Other American and European investment firms are also stepping up efforts to establish themselves here, including Merrill Lynch, Morgan Grenfell, ING Barings and MC Capital, a new venture set up by Hans-Jorg Rudloff, the former head of CS First Boston. Brunswick, a Swedish-owned, Moscow-based brokerage firm, claims to have the leading market share in equity trading.
In the long run, though, Mr. Jordan's most powerful rivals could well be Russian brokerage firms like Troika Dialog and Grant Financial, which are rapidly expanding their equity research and trading, and Russian commercial banks like Menatep and Imperial Bank, which already dominate trading in government debt and are moving into a wide array of investment banking services.
"What Boris Jordan brings to the party is that he hired a team that from day one knows how an international investment bank works," said a competitor who spoke on condition of anonymity. "But you've got the big global banks trying to muscle in and you've got a lot of progress on the Russian side. He's one professional person in a market that consists of many professionals."
If nothing else, Mr. Jordan's timing seems good. The Russian economy is showing signs of stabilizing. There is a functioning, if still relatively illiquid, equity market. Banks and investment firms have gotten the go-ahead from the Government to start mutual funds in Russia, and in the United States the Securities and Exchange Commission decided this month to accept applications from Russian companies to list American depositary receipts of their shares.
The central bank is opening the government-debt market to foreign investors. Russian companies increasingly need investment-banking advice as they seek to raise capital, as do Western companies and strategic investors looking for deals in what most analysts still consider a grossly undervalued, though still hugely risky, market.
When Mr. Jordan arrived here in March 1992, it was far from clear that Russia was a land of opportunity. After three months, Mr. Jordan -- a graduate of New York University's foreign service school who worked for Kidder, Peabody and GPA Group P.L.C., the Irish aircraft-leasing company, before joining First Boston -- was close to concluding that he had made a mistake.
But he stuck it out. By having First Boston serve as an unpaid adviser to the Russian Government's economic reform team, he gained invaluable knowledge of the privatization program and contacts throughout the Government and industry. When Russia's mass privatization program began two years ago, Mr. Jordan moved aggressively. Working on behalf of clients and for the firm's own account, First Boston eventually acquired 17 million of the 144 million vouchers distributed to Russians for use in bidding for shares in the privatized companies.
With better than 10 percent of the privatization program's buying power in his pocket, Mr. Jordan was able to acquire significant stakes in the most attractive Russian companies, making him a market-moving force here and an essential contact for Western fund managers interested in investing in Russia.
As the main conduit between Western capital and Russian industry, First Boston was winning investment-banking assignments from a long list of domestic companies like Lukoil, the giant oil company, and foreign companies like U S West Inc.
The result was that in 1994, a bad year for most global securities firms, First Boston was highly profitable in Russia. Institutional Investor magazine reported that the firm's earnings in Moscow last year were $66 million and that Mr. Jordan got a bonus of $4 million. Neither First Boston nor Mr. Jordan would discuss the figures.
But even with that level of success, Mr. Jordan felt that going it alone was the only way he could take full advantage of Russia's possibilities.
No matter how well Mr. Jordan and his new team do, there is no doubt that he remains influential in Russia's economic development. In the last several months he and Mr. Jennings played a central role in developing a proposal by which the Russian Government would transfer its remaining shares in the country's biggest companies to banks and other investors in a complicated transaction dubbed "loans for shares."
Mr. Jordan, of course, expects to participate profitably in the transaction, though he insists that it's fair for the Government, too.
As Mr. Jordan puts the final pieces for his new venture into place -- he is still negotiating with several American and European investment funds that will become minority partners -- he is also coming to grips with his decision to go native.
For all the excitement of helping to build an economy from scratch and getting a shot at making a fortune, most Americans and Western Europeans working here -- intimidated by the language, the lingering mistrust of foreigners, the crime, the grinding daily difficulties of traveling or even getting the phones to work -- are reluctant to make any long-term commitments to Russia.
Even Mr. Jordan, with his track record of success and Russian heritage, said he and his wife, Elizabeth, had to think hard before deciding to give 10 years to the new venture and a country where prudence requires personal bodyguards.
"We're more and more comfortable here," Mr. Jordan said. "Predominantly, our friends are Russian. We see our future here. Am I going to give up my U.S. citizenship? No. Am I going to take Russian citizenship? I might."
Last winter the Jordans rented a dacha outside Moscow that had been owned by a Soviet propaganda minister. In the attic, Mr. Jordan found a copy of the 1988 central plan for the economy, which presumed in a single document to detail the workings of industry in a world superpower. Looking at it, he said, left him amazed at how far Russia had come.


GRAPHIC: Age: 29.
Chart: "Boris Jordan"
 College: New York University.
 Work history:
 Kidder Peabody, training program
 GPA Group of Ireland, securitizing aircraft leases in emerging markets
 CS First Boston, co-head of Moscow office
 Renaissance Capital, chief executive
 Family: Married, with 2 children.
 Wealth: Reported to have received $4 million bonus from First Boston last year
 Drawback to wealth: Like all bankers in Russia, needs bodyguards 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: RENAISSANCE CAPITAL INC; ICFI (RUSSIAN CO); UNEXIMBANK (RUSSIA); CS FIRST BOSTON CORP GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: RENAISSANCE CAPITAL INC; ICFI (RUSSIAN CO); UNEXIMBANK (RUSSIA); CS FIRST BOSTON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ; BANKS AND BANKING BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); SECURITIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); TRENDS (74%); NATURALIZATION (73%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (73%); BONDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; JORDAN, BORIS; JENNINGS, STEPHEN BORIS JORDAN (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995



397 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Starts of Housing Up Again; Lower Mortgage Rates Cited

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Housing starts rose slightly in August for the fifth straight month, the Government said today, as low mortgage rates attracted buyers and continued to nourish the economy.
The housing starts rose six-tenths of 1 percent, the Commerce Department said, bringing the annual rate of new construction to 1.398 million new homes -- the highest this year. 
 "These numbers indicate a continuing recovery in housing and probably in the economy as a whole during the second half," Michael Carliner, an economist with the National Association of Home Builders, said.
The pace of new home building has been rising since April. Starts rose a revised 1.2 percent in June, up from the previously estimated nine-tenths of 1 percent, and 7.1 percent in July, up from 6.7 percent, the department said.
"It shows that housing still remains on a good footing and it will help add to third-quarter G.D.P.," James Blumenthal, an economist at MCM Money Watch, said, referring to gross domestic product, a measure of the value of goods and services produced within a country's borders.
The last time building activity was more brisk was last December, when home building ran at an annual rate of 1.545 million units.
Lower mortgage rates have nourished the housing recovery this year. Rates on popular 30-year fixed-rate loans fell to 7.6 percent last week from above 9 percent in January, according to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
Strength in housing helps the economy by creating jobs and increasing demand for everything from construction materials to home furnishings.
"It's just mirroring interest rates and as long as interest rates can stay at relatively low historical levels, then construction can keep moving up," said David Lereah, an economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association.
He said rates were unlikely to go much lower, and that housing starts could begin to ease from August's pace. Analysts said the August rise in building activity was unlikely to be a strong factor when the Federal Reserve's policy makers meet next Tuesday to weigh another cut in interest rates. Many analysts expect the Fed, which cut short-term rates in July, to hold steady next week.
Mr. Lereah forecast housing starts for the year would be about 1.33 million units, less than last year's 1.46 million starts but strong enough to contribute to the economic expansion in the second half of the year.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" tracks new private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions at seasonally adjusted annual rates, from May 1994 through August 1995. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES HOUSING STARTS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); 

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995



398 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Automation Drives a Surge In Currency Trade Volume

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Not only does money make the world go round, it is moving faster, major central banks reported yesterday. The banks reported that currency trading had risen sharply in the last three years, as high-speed electronic trading made more transactions possible.
In the last three years, a period of turmoil in the global currency market, daily turnover is estimated to have grown to the point that it now exceeds $1 trillion, or the value of the gross domestic product of Britain. Three years ago, daily turnover was an estimated $880 billion. 
 The dollar plummeted for most of 1994 and 1995 but recovered recently, while in 1992 and 1993 European currencies were roiled by crises in the exchange-rate mechanism designed to combine Europe's currencies into one.
In April 1995, according to a survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that was released yesterday, daily turnover in the United States foreign-exchange market was $244 billion, up 46 percent from $167 billion in April 1992. The United States market has almost doubled since 1989 and has risen more than tenfold since 1980.
The New York Fed said high-speed automated trading in the United States had grown from almost nothing in 1992 to 13 percent of market volume. Although no precise data exist, electronic trading in overseas markets has probably grown at parallel rates.
Because of the speed and complexity of foreign exchange, an exact figure for global transactions may never be determined. One problem is the double counting of transactions. A sale of a German mark, for example, will be reported twice, once by the seller and once by the buyer.
The problem is magnified in international transactions. While it would be difficult, for example, to identify every American buying an American brand of soup here, it would be even harder to track the transactions if Germans, Belgians and Japanese bought the American product in their countries.
"It becomes still more difficult when an American buys the soup in London, or a German buys the soup in Zurich or Tokyo," said Dino Kos, vice president for foreign exchange at the New York Fed, which conducted the survey of 130 foreign-exchange firms and 17 currency brokers in the United States.
While the mark and the Japanese yen are used in an increasing number of transactions, the report found that the dollar was still used in 86 percent, or $209 billion, of transactions made in the United States. By contrast, the mark was used in 43 percent of transactions in this country and the yen in 23 percent. The sum exceeds 100 percent because foreign-exchange transactions involve at least two currencies.
The New York Fed also surveyed activity in trading of derivatives but will report those figures later this year.
Twenty-five other central banks conduct foreign-exchange surveys every three years in April, following the Fed's lead. The Bank of International Settlements in Switzerland, the central bank of the central banks, combined the data into an overall report.
London, the largest foreign-exchange market, reported the biggest gain in daily volume, 60 percent, to $464 billion, over the last three years. In Germany, the Bundesbank reported a surge of about 40 percent, to between $80 billion and $85 billion. In Tokyo, the Bank of Japan reported a 34 percent increase, to $161.4 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Foreign Exchange Trading" tracks average daily volume of currency trading in United States markets in April of 1977, 1980, 1983, 1986, 1989, 1992, and 1995. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (52%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (BASEL); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (BASEL); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (52%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) CURRENCIES (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); GERMAN MARK (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995



399 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Moves to Ease Pension-Plan Rule

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
House Republicans moved today to let companies take an estimated total of $40 billion out of pension plans to use for other purposes, an idea that Republican tax writers said would generate $10.5 billion in tax revenue, but that Democrats warned could lead to corporate raids on workers' pensions.
The proposal would do away with penalties Congress imposed in 1990 on what it called excess pension withdrawals that had been used to help finance a wave of takeovers and leveraged buyouts. Under current law, companies can withdraw excess money from pension plans without penalty only if it is used to pay for health benefits for retirees. 
 The provision is part of a pending tax bill that is expected to be approved by the House Ways and Means Committee this week.
Democrats on the tax-writing committee denounced the measure, saying it would undermine an important source of workers' savings. They argued that the proposal would leave pension plans vulnerable to collapse in an economic downturn, potentially requiring a huge taxpayer bailout.
"As soon as these pension funds go belly up and we've started another S.& L.-type crisis around here," warned Representative Sam Gibbons of Florida, the senior Democrat on the panel, "I'm going to arise, wherever I am, dead or alive, and say, 'I told you so.' "
Republicans, who easily defeated Democratic efforts to delete the provision, said they were simply following the outlines of a proposal made earlier by President Clinton. They contended that the measure would free capital for investment while maintaining an adequate cushion to insure that companies could meet their pension obligations.
The debate over the proposal highlighted the intensely partisan atmosphere on Capitol Hill.
Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, expressed bewilderment at the Democratic attacks, saying the Democrats were wrong in contending that the proposal would reduce savings and leave workers vulnerable to losing their pensions.
"There is not one of us that wants to jeopardize the viability of pension funds," Mr. Archer said at a brief news conference. "This will allow companies with excess money in their pension plans to put that money to use, to create new jobs, opening up opportunities to expand the economy."
The Republican proposal would require corporations to leave at least 25 percent more than needed to meet their pension plans' current liabilities. And, instead of reducing savings, Mr. Archer said, relaxing the rules on withdrawals might encourage companies to make bigger pension contributions, because they would know the money would be available for other purposes if it turned out to be more than was needed.
In response, Leslie Samuels, the Assistant Treasury Secretary for tax policy, offered one word: "Ridiculous."
Mr. Samuels acknowledged that the Administration had set a similar threshold of 125 percent of current liability when it supported an extension of the 1990 law last year. But he emphasized that was solely for the benefit of plan participants and was not comparable to Mr. Archer's proposals, which set no limits on how companies could use funds they withdrew.
Mr. Archer's plan is favored by many large companies with well-financed pension plans, said Fred Rumack, director of tax and legal services for Buck Consultants, a benefits advisory company.
More than 60 companies have used a total of $2.1 billion in pension funds to pay for retiree health benefits. The biggest users have been the AT&T Corporation, at $585 million; E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, at $290 million; the Nynex Corporation, at $170 million, and the Ford Motor Company, at $150 million, Labor Department records show.
On Monday night, the committee received charts from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a Government agency that protects pensions against default, showing that a pension plan that met the standard of 125 percent of current liability today could face a significant shortfall if the stock market fell 10 percent or interest rates declined by 2 percentage points. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LAW COMPANIES GROUP INC (71%); MEANS COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEANS COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CORPORATIONS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WRITERS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); APPROVALS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (71%); 

PERSON: ARCHER, BILL (REPR); JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995



400 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: California Groups Sue Merrill Lynch

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif., Sept. 19

 BODY:
A dozen cities and public agencies have filed a $50 million lawsuit against Merrill Lynch & Company, contending that the securities firm defrauded them during Orange County's financial debacle.
The plaintiffs seek return of more than $50 million in taxpayer funds lost through what they contend were "complex and risky investments." 
 A Merrill spokesman told The Orange County Register that the suit, filed Friday in San Francisco Superior Court, had "no legal merit whatsoever."
About $1.7 billion was lost as a result of bets last year by Orange County's former treasurer, Robert L. Citron, on lower interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (94%); MER (NYSE) (94%); 8675 (TSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (94%); SAN FRANCISCO SUPERIOR COURT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO SAN FRANCISCO SUPERIOR COURT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LOCAL GOVERNMENT; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); BONDS (85%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SUE MERRILL LYNCH (88%); ROBERT L CITRON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995

 
