

1 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 116; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: Riverboat Gambling With Government

BYLINE: By Richard Darman; Richard Darman served as the director of the Office of Management and Budget and a member of President Bush's Cabinet from 1989 to 1993. He is the author of "Who's in Control?" (Simon & Schuster).

 BODY:
IN THE STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS THAT KICKED OFF his re-election campaign, President Clinton declared, "The era of Big Government is over." Now, as he ponders his second inaugural, he is undoubtedly aware of three contradictions. Together, they frame a choice: whether to continue or end a scandal that is far less visible than recent titillations -- but ultimately more important.
The first of these contradictions is that, in a supposedly anti-Government era, the pro-Government candidate won. He promised to use Government to help all Americans achieve the Dream -- and proposed modest initiatives as tokens of concern and commitment. Therein lies the second contradiction. While tokens helped win the President his chance for a big place in history, the very modesty of his initiatives would deny it to him. As an experienced analyst of public policy, he must know that tokenism cannot solve America's major domestic problems. In a time of scarce resources, bold new approaches and technologies are required. 
 But that suggests a third contradiction. Though the President has assumed responsibility for using Government, neither he -- nor any other would-be leader -- can honestly and persuasively claim that his domestic program would meet America's major challenges. There is, quite simply, too little reliable empirical evidence to suggest that any such program would work. It is this missing evidence that America should recognize as a national scandal.
In the decades since President Kennedy raised the Clinton generation's hopes, there has been no lack of bold plans. The country has tried the Great Society and the Reagan Revolution. It has debated Nixon's New American Revolution, the Clinton health plan and the Gingrich Contract With America. It has witnessed several "wars" on poverty, crime and drugs. The Government has spent trillions trying to solve domestic problems. Yet the problems remain, and some have worsened.
It is important to be clear: The scandal is not that Government has failed. The scandal is that so little has been learned from our trials.
As a society, we have been guilty of what can fairly be termed policy corruption. In pursuit of bold visions, we have launched one risky scheme after another without anything like responsible evidence. In his 1969 book, "Maximum Feasible Misunderstanding," Daniel Patrick Moynihan said of the Great Society's Community Action Program, "The Government did not know what it was doing." A major transfer of power was legislated. Yet few officials knew how it would work or what to expect. They bet the system on a hunch, and the bet did not pay. Similarly, in 1981, the Senate Republican leader, Howard Baker, described the bold Reagan tax cut as a "riverboat gamble." Though there was evidence that tax cuts could stimulate the economy, there was no serious work to support the excessive free-lunch claims of supply-side advocates. Fiscal balance was sacrificed to a half-informed hope.
Combining the Moynihan and Baker characterizations, one gets an image of policy making that amounts to ignorant gambling. Although highly unflattering, it must seem painfully familiar to anyone with experience in the development of bold Federal policy initiatives. When grand domestic visions are in the making, rolling the dice is the norm.
The problem is not the visions. Americans across the political spectrum want to improve education, reduce violence, eliminate substance abuse, strengthen families, restore traditional values and increase opportunity for achieving the Dream. The problem is that we know little more now than in the 60's about how, on a large scale, to achieve these shared objectives. And the reason is a continuing surrender to ignorance. Major public-policy initiatives are routinely advanced, but rarely do we organize to evaluate what works. We thus allow politicians to mislead us. Then we act like helpless victims.
The public shows outrage at conventional corruption and interest in investigations that range from the current Speaker of the House's use of an 800 phone number to the First Lady's possible participation in a land scam. Yet we show a remarkable tolerance for policy corruption -- the effects of which waste billions of dollars and immeasur- able human potential. Echoing a refrain from the 60's, one might ask, "When will we ever learn?"
In much of life, it is common to learn through systematic evaluation of trials and errors. Successful private corporations spend a substantial share of their revenue on evaluative research to improve their products and performance. They tend to proceed on an orderly basis from paper analysis to pilot testing to larger scale trials before they bet the company on a new idea. So, too, do some of the more technically oriented parts of the Federal Government. But when it comes to large-scale domestic policy, we don't structure ways to learn before we leap.
We started to do so in the late 60's and early 70's. The Federal Government set aside funds from major social programs for evaluation of their effects. An early national study of the popular Head Start program, for example, compared first, second and third graders who had had Head Start with comparable children who had not. It reached an unpopular conclusion, finding little sustained difference between the two groups. That study was followed by others that examined variations in Head Start treatments and the related Follow Through program, seeking to determine which variations might do their intended job. Technical staffs within the domestic agencies were charged to commission and oversee similar studies of most of the major Federal spending programs. For a brief period, evaluation became the rage.
The Government also sponsored experiments ranging from loosely structured model cities to more systematic trials of particular policy ideas. A multi-city test of housing allowances was designed to examine effects on housing demand and supply. In New Jersey, an ambitious test of welfare reform examined work incentives and the negative income tax. Other experiments were structured to test innovative approaches to remedial education, job training, health insurance and school choice. Importantly, these experiments were designed to test behavior and results outside of the ivory tower, at substantial scale, in the real world.
Unfortunately, however, most of these experimental efforts were abandoned before they could deliver -- often before they were fully financed. Given the enormous stakes, one might well wonder why. Why have we not organized a sustained effort to learn?
One answer is ideology, which showed itself in the 80's. When the legitimacy of a governmental role is denied, there is little interest in improving it. But antipathy toward serious policy research goes beyond ideology. America is an impatient culture, and responsible research takes time. When someone seems to have a "cure," it is wanted everywhere immediately. The idea of first systematically testing it can seem defeatist, immoral or threatening to its enthusiasts.
Further, our populist culture is skeptical of "experts" and fearful of social engineering. Giving power to the pointy heads is understandably less appealing than power to the people. And even among experts there are doubts about policy analysis. Respect for individual rights puts limits on experimentation, creating problems for research methodology. These are expensive to address. In the competition for resources, immediate needs often seem more compelling. The future is shortchanged.
What, then, might be done by a President interested in boldness but mindful of our ignorance? He could advance a plan to end the era of policy corruption. Instead of trivial tokens or new Federal programs launched at full scale, he could initiate a set of bold research trials. They could focus on alternative major policy initiatives. In education, experiments might create a serious market test for vouchers, while others might accelerate the development of different types of charter schools. To reverse urban decomposition, various types of enterprise zones might be financed, combining tax incentives and infrastructure investment with innovative approaches to training, education and the reduction of drug abuse and crime. And so it might go, down a short list of America's top domestic-policy concerns.
With the governors, the President could take advantage of decentralization and the natural variation offered by "states as laboratories." Together, they could foster a constructive excitement about innovation -- while setting aside the funds to evaluate trials systematically and honestly. To assure objectivity and accommodate anti-Federal spirit, they might establish a nonpartisan entity -- under joint control -- to contract with private firms and nonprofit organizations for the necessary evaluation and research. Though large-scale problems would not be solved immediately, pilot tests would proliferate, and through evaluation of them, learning would grow.
But what, then, of the President's place in history? The benefit of serious policy research accrues to future politicians and citizens. That is why it has few current advocates and earns few current accolades. If this should lead the President to hesitate, he is young enough to console himself with this thought: At some point in the 21st century, he might witness the fruit of his research initiative. It could serve as a bridge from an era of policy corruption to one in which policies might be advanced responsibly -- not with a roll of the dice but with meaningful evidence to suggest they would work. Those who helped to produce the evidence might not honestly be able to say that Big Government had disappeared. But they might at least proclaim with integrity, "The era of ignorant gambling with Federal domestic policy is over."

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (ILLUSTRATION BY GARY BASEMAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SCANDALS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CORRUPTION (76%); TAX LAW (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); 

PERSON: DARMAN, RICHARD; MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



2 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Q&A: Fernando Betancourt;
A Public Voice for Hispanic Interests

BYLINE: By MELINDA TUHUS

 BODY:
LAST year, Fernando Betancourt, 37, was appointed the first executive director of the Connecticut Latino and Puerto Rican Affairs Commission, newly created by the General Assembly.
Mr. Betancourt was born and educated in Puerto Rico, attending both the Social Sciences and Law schools at the University of Puerto Rico. He moved to New Haven in 1987, where he worked in both public and private sector human service agencies, most recently, prior to his current appointment, as Deputy of the Human Resources Administration in the City of New Haven and director of the Ryan White Title I Initiative for New Haven and Fairfield counties. He and his family moved to Guilford in July. 
 In a recent interview, Mr. Betancourt, who has a staff of two, discussed the work of the commission and its role in state government and in community life. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. How did the commission come to be?
A. The legislation that created the commission states that 13 commissioners, three appointed by the governor and the rest by various legislative leaders, must include those with expertise in the fields of human services, education, small business, economic development, children and youth development, health, arts, culture, the environment, public safety, housing and transportation.
Our mission is to provide access to resources to the more than 250,000 Latinos in the state of Connecticut by making public policy recommendations to the governor and legislature.
Q. Why is it called the Commission on Latino and Puerto Rican Affairs? Isn't that redundant?
A. I think the rationale of the legislature was to highlight that Puerto Ricans make up the vast majority of Latinos in our state.
Q. Are there other such commissions in other states?
A. The latest survey in 1994 counted 21, although not all have paid staff. Interestingly enough, states like Kansas and Iowa, with very small Latino populations, have commissions, while the two states with the most Latinos -- Texas and California -- don't.
Q. What is the commission's mandate?
A. Our mandate includes review and comment on any proposed state legislation or regulations that would affect the Latino and Puerto Rican populations of the state; advising the governor on the state's policies and programs relevant to that population; maintaining a liaison between that population and governmental bodies; encouraging Latino and Puerto Rican representation at all levels of state government, both elected and appointed, and securing appropriate recognition of the contributions of that population.
Q. What kinds of issues have you taken up?
A. In this legislative session, we've researched dozens of bills from charter schools to bilingual education to welfare reform to diversity training to issues of housing, health, economic development, transportation and the family.
Q. Can you give some specific examples of bills you've taken a position on?
A. We researched several bills concerning welfare reform, and opposed three on constitutional grounds. Two would have required a waiting period prior to receiving either General Assistance or Aid to Families With Dependent Children; the third would have counted any time a person was receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children in another state toward the 21-month limit Connecticut passed last year for benefits. We concluded that these bills would constitute a violation of the Equal Protection Clause.
Q. What happened to the bills?
A. They died in committee.
Q. What other bills have you worked on?
A. We spoke out in favor of the proposed increase in the state minimum wage, from $4.27 to $5.15. It is currently two cents an hour above the Federal minimum wage, even though Connecticut has the highest cost of living of any state in the continental United States. We found that minimum wage workers are primarily women, that almost half have full-time jobs, and that 14 percent are Hispanic.
After we sent a memo on that to state legislators, one of the nice things that happened is that I received a letter from a state representative who is white, telling me we could count on his support. So we're not just reaching the Hispanic representatives.
Q. How many Latino state elected officials are there?
A. Five: two are from Hartford, two from Bridgeport and one from New Haven. Statewide there are 23 Latinos elected to various positions as council members, constables, aldermen, town clerks and board of education members.
Q. Are there other issues you took up in the 1996 legislative session?
A. We took a position on a bill that restores compensatory damages, reasonable attorney's fees and costs as remedies in employment discrimination cases through the Connecticut Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities. People who use the C.H.R.O. are not wealthy people, so it protects not only Latinos but all low-income people.
We also organized on behalf of Attorney Jorge A. Simon to get him appointed as a superior court judge. He was nominated by Gov. John G. Rowland and sworn in on March 8, making him the third Latino judge in the state of Connecticut.
Q. Is it safe to say that your commission has taken a position in favor of bilingual education and against "English only" in the schools?
A. Yes.
Q. But how do you determine what is a good bilingual program? Is this of concern to the commission?
A. Very much. We are in the process of conducting our own study to come up with specific recommendations. We also have asked the legislature to be a member of the Bilingual Education Task Force that was created during this legislative session.
Q. Are you involved in any projects that are not driven specifically by proposed or existing legislation?
A. We have several. First, we have just completed a scientific survey, the first of its kind, of 1,005 respondents on the socio-economic status of Latinos in Connecticut.
We learned that compared to the overall United States population, the Connecticut Latino community appears upbeat regarding both their quality of life and their economic prospects. Forty seven percent, compared to 20 percent of Americans in a recent national survey, said their overall quality of life was better than it was three years ago. And 63 percent, compared to 47 percent in the national survey, said they're better off financially than they were three years ago.
Q. Were you surprised by those numbers, especially given the data that show 70 percent of those surveyed earn less than $35,000, compared to 42 percent for Connecticut's general population, and that 58 percent have total household incomes under $25,000?
A. I was surprised, but the question was open-ended and the data can be interpreted in many ways. Someone might be upbeat just about retaining his or her job, even if it's not a well-paying job. But that's not one of the findings I'm emphasizing.
Q. What are you emphasizing?
A. The data showed that many people don't have enough information about lead poisoning, although a high percentage of Latinos with young children live in old, run-down housing stock that is most likely to have lead paint.
Another issue I'm concerned about is that, while the survey showed Hispanics have high awareness of H.I.V./AIDS and have changed sexual behavior as a result, just over two-thirds of those surveyed believed there is no chance they will get AIDS. This appears to be too large a number. The commission and appropriate health agencies should study ways to reduce that number.
Q. What else did you learn?
A. That Connecticut's Hispanic residents are very concerned about crime, drugs on our streets and unemployment. And more than four-fifths who responded were very concerned about the "general lack of cultural sensitivity in Connecticut" and language discrimination.
Q. Late this spring there was a first-of-its-kind national march of Puerto Ricans in Washington, D.C. Then in June the annual Connecticut Puerto Rican Day Parade took place in Hartford. What is the significance of these kinds of events?
A. I think they are two completely different things. The parade is one way of showing pride and showcasing your own culture and heritage. The other event is more related to developing a national public policy agenda, encompassing political, economic and social issues.
Q. What is your stand on Federal legislation that would make English the official language of the United States?
A. We are against it because we believe it isn't necessary. This country was built on multiculturalism and multilingualism. There is a Congressional study that shows that 97 percent of people in America understand and use English, without any such legislation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Betancourt, speaking out on welfare, the minimum wage and diversity, in language as well as in the work place. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available INTERVIEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MULTILINGUALISM (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: RYAN WHITE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



3 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Puerto Rico Is Putting Priority on Tourism

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
TOURISM has long been important to Puerto Rico's economy, but it has never been more vital or as much of a priority as now. Determined to attract even more than last year's 4.1 million tourists, including almost 2.3 million Americans, the island is adding thousands of hotel rooms, sprucing up the airport and every day is cleaning beaches that Puerto Rican officials boast are now among the most spotless in the Caribbean.
A major reason for the makeover is that tourism is widely viewed as the fastest way to create thousands of jobs, a matter of great importance on an island where unemployment among its 3.7 million people averages about 14 percent and where tourism contributes 6 percent of the commonwealth's $28.4 billion gross national product. Moreover, a bill President Clinton signed in August raising the minimum wage called for phasing out over 10 years assorted tax breaks for United States companies operating in Puerto Rico. 
 In anticipation of an end to the tax breaks, Puerto Rico adopted a series of measures beginning in 1993 that were designed to double tourism revenues by the year 2003. It also embarked on an ambitious private-public alliance that has politicians and in-vestors euphoric -- and has some financial analysts holding their breaths.
Two years ago Puerto Rico elevated the tourism agency to cabinet-level status, giving its executive director, Luis G. Fortuno, authority to cut red tape. He promptly responded by hiring a private company to clean every beach in the tourist areas of San Juan every morning.
Some $2 million has been spent on plants, murals and photographs to beautify the Luis Munoz Marin International Airport, while millions more are earmarked for airport infrastructure.
To address safety concerns of tourists, the number of policemen in metropolitan San Juan has been increased and officers are required to take classes aimed at making them visitor-friendly. Taxi drivers are also required to take classes on tourism and Puerto Rican history, as well as speak conversational English. And to answer questions about transportation and fares, dispatchers have been assigned to both the airport and the cruise ship dock in Old San Juan (which handled 955,105 passengers last year).
The most visible change is that many hotels have opened recently or will open in 1997, increasing total hotel rooms on the island to 13,000, up from 8,400 in 1992. The new hotels are represented by such major chains as the Ritz-Carlton, a 418-room beach resort and casino at Isla Verde (scheduled to open next November); the 600-room Westin Rio Mar Beach Resort and Country Club (which opened in September), facing the Caribbean National Forest, the only tropical rain forest in the United States National Forest Service; a 200-room Hampton Inn in San Juan, which will have a health and fitness center (June), and the 300-room Embassy Suites Hotel and Casino, with the first casino of any Embassy Suites property (scheduled to open in mid-December).
A number of hotels are also being renovated, including El Convento, the historic former convent in Old San Juan, which is scheduled to open by year's end. And to diversify and decentralize the tourism industry, three new paradors were built around the island, while five small hotels are also going up outside of San Juan, from Lajas in the west to Fajardo on the east coast. These lower priced accommodations are aimed primarily at attracting foreign visitors, but also at the growing number of scuba divers and nature tourists to whom Puerto Rico has been been marketing.
For all its promise, however, and its apparent early success, there are pitfalls in any such public-private alliance. A recent study by the E & Y Kenneth Leventhal Real Estate Group noted that such partnerships are "more like forced marriages" to which both sides often bring incompatible expections, goals and views. Elected officials often apply pressure to help friends and supporters, the authors say, even if it means bypassing the best qualified private developers. But James E. Susi, a co-author of the report, said prospects for success looked promising in Puerto Rico because the island had established clear guidelines and the partnership had full support of Gov. Pedro Rossello.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO; PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS TOURISM (90%); BEACHES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CRUISES (79%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (79%); RESORTS (79%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (79%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (79%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); RAIN FORESTS (68%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (61%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



4 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 10; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: How the Hispanic Community Helps Itself

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
SIX years ago, Charles Gonzalez went into a meeting of the Westchester Hispanic Chamber of Commerce as a guest and walked out as an officer of the organization.
"If I knew I was volunteering for something that takes almost all my free time, I would have done it anyway," said Mr. Gonzalez, who is now president of the chamber. "I have very strong feelings about the Hispanic business community. I thought it should be more active and visible in the county. In the following years, all of us worked very hard to grow the organization." 
 And the hard work has paid off.
"We have increased our membership from a dozen or so six years ago to 150 today," Mr. Gonzalez said. "And since there are at least 2,500 Hispanic-owned businesses in Westchester, our potential for growth is nearly unlimited. Especially as government services decline, there is even more of a need for an advocate like the chamber, to help build Hispanic business success."
Mr. Gonzalez said that Hispanic residents are now the fastest-growing ethnic group in the county. "We accounted for 10 percent of the Westchester population, 90,000, in the 1990 census," he reported.
When asked why it was necessary for business people to belong to an ethnic chamber of commerce when dozens of chambers of commerce eagerly seek new members, Mr. Gonzalez replied that raising the profile of the Hispanic business community and its strong customer base was important.
"Why?" he said. "Because the County Planning Department estimates that by the year 2020, Hispanics will make up 25 percent of Westchester's population. Making them economically strong now means that in the future more Hispanics will be in the mainstream, employing others, paying taxes, buying houses and generally adding to the economic and social well-being of the county."
Mr. Gonzalez is a native New Yorker, the son of a Cuban father and a Puerto Rican mother, and he is an executive with the Selbst Group in White Plains, consultants who provide training and business development to employees of large financial-service industries.
"The chamber includes members who are lawyers or accountants and executives, but the majority of our members are small-business owners with fewer than nine employees," he said. "Our largest business owner is Nelson Gisbert. He is president of Nelson Maintenance in New Rochelle, a cleaning-service firm with 500 people on the payroll."
Another member, Millie Hernandez-Becker, is president of Westchester Air, an airline-charter business in White Plains. Proftech, owned by Jose Montiel, an office-products and furniture company in Elmsford, was recognized by the Hispanic Business magazine as one of the fastest-growing Hispanic-owned businesses in the country, Mr. Gonzalez said, adding that some of the county's biggest business names, Nynex, Chase and Con Edison are forging ties with Hispanic business owners by sponsoring dinners that honor Hispanic business achievements.
Marta Camacho, a board member and owner of the Exotic Foods Cafe in Ossining, was formerly an account executive with Burlington Industries.
"My territory was Central and South America," said Ms. Camacho, who is also a well-known caterer. "During my travels I got very interested in different Latino foods, somuch so that I decided to make a big career change and go to culinary school.
"I learned the value of networking when I belonged to the Hispanic Corporate World Network in Manhattan," she said. "I catered my first party for one of their events, and my business was launched."
The Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Ms. Camacho said, provides many of the same opportunities for networking. The difference is that most of the members are business owners. "But the spirit is the same," she said. "We support one another, and we learn from each other."
Hispanic business owners deal with the same problems faced by every Westchester business owner. Ms. Camacho said: "High rents, capital loans, health benefits and competition. But we have many programs aimed specifically at helping Hispanics, from networking among ourselves to opening the doors of major corporations to our members."
Ms. Camacho, who buys goods and services from other members, said: "The printer and florist I use belong to the chamber. So does my lawyer." In turn, she added, she caters parties and business meetings for members.
"However, I've been in the business for 10 years, and I'm well established," she said. "Most of my business comes from corporate and political clients. For instance, I recently catered a cocktail reception for 800 people in honor of Puerto Rico Heritage month for Mayor Giuliani. The same week I did a party for AT&T for 150, plus a holiday luncheon for Lehman College."
Four years ago, Ms. Camacho opened the Exotic Foods Cafe to showcase her wares.
"We're only open for lunch and occasional special evening events," she said. "I made my reputation with my Latino food, but international foods -- French, Italian -- are also part of my repertory."
Ms. Camacho does all the cooking herself. "By doing so, I can keep the quality consistent," she said.
Minerva Martinez de Paschalidis and Esther Martinez de Ripoll, are sisters and winners of awards from the Hispanic Chamber, Westchester County and the County Chamber of Commerce for their achievements as minority business owners, were born in Puerto Rico.
"We grew up in Spanish Harlem's El Barrio," Ms. Paschalidis said. "Even as kids, we were both always ambitious and hard working, Owning our own business was our dream until 1970 when it became real."
With very little capital and a large inventory of baby knit clothing from Greece, remaindered from Ms. Paschalidis's husband's import-export business, the sisters opened their first store, Delphi Youngtown at 538 Gramatan Avenue in Mount Vernon.
"My husband was Greek and bought merchandise from Greece, but the baby clothes didn't work out," she said. "So we opened the store and did everything ourselves, the books, the buying, the selling. Customers came by word of mouth, and soon we began to make a go of it."
Ten years later, because a number of their customers were moving to Thornwood, the sisters said, they decided to open a second store there, Delphi Kids, at the Town Center Mall.
"We carry top brands like Oshkosh, Carters and Bugle Boy in sizes from infant to 14," Ms. Paschalidis said. "We employ six people now, but we work as hard as ever. Three years ago we joined the Westchester Hispanic Chamber and it has given us the opportunity to meet people we have a lot in common with. "It's also good for our business. Members and their friends have become customers. And since we do very little advertising or promotion, the publicity we've received from getting awards has brought us very good exposure."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Esther Martinez de Ripoll, left, and Minerva Martinez de Paschalidis at Thornwood store. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); ETHNICITY (87%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); CENSUS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: CHARLES A GONZALEZ (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



5 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 16; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
France's Newest Belle de Jour

BYLINE: By INGRID ABRAMOVITCH 

 BODY:
THERE IS A WEB SITE ON the Internet devoted to French actresses who are, naturellement, young and beautiful. The site is called Belles de Jour and, with the sleeper success of her film "A Single Girl," Virginie Ledoyen -- beautiful, and just turned 20 -- has landed on it. Her entry comes complete with a filmography (she has a small part in another French film opening soon, "La Ceremonie"), biographical data (she was a child model for Lacoste) and a link to a photograph of her in a black bra.
Ms. Ledoyen has a screen presence and a buoyant energy that has led to comparisons to the French New Wave heroines of the 1960's. But where those actresses seemed care-free, Ms. Ledoyen's characters are weighted down by care, though self-reliant in the face of hard knocks. 
 "People say I'm very tough, but I'm not sure I am," says Ms. Ledoyen, who was in New York earlier this year in connection with a series of French films at Lincoln Center. "I do like to play girls who are independent, who have a lot of character and a story to tell. They aren't just there to be pretty."
In person, the poised Ms. Ledoyen wears sneakers with her Agnes B. outfits and little makeup. She has almond-shaped eyes, which she inherited from her grandparents, who were from the Basque region of Spain. She was born in Paris, where her father is a businessman; her mother runs a restaurant in the suburbs. These days, Ms. Ledoyen lives alone in an apartment in the Marais district, where she listens to Alanis Morissette and reads Russian novels.
Ms. Ledoyen got her first modeling assignment at the age of 2 through a friend of her mother's. She was cast in her first film, an Italian comedy, when she was 9, the same year she enrolled in a performing arts school in Paris.
Her breakthrough part was in Olivier Assayas's 1994 film "Cold Water," in which she played a troubled French teen-ager living on the margins. In her next movie, Claude Chabrol's "Ceremonie," which opens in New York this month, she plays a perceptive teen-ager who discovers a secret about her bourgeois family's maid.
But Ms. Ledoyen's tour-de-force was in Benoit Jacquot's "Single Girl," which depicts an hour in the life of a young French working woman. The movie is "so buoyant, sharp-eyed and casually sexy it comes closer than any recent movie to capturing the essence of youth itself," Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times. "It also establishes Ms. Ledoyen . . . as a luminous natural screen presence."
The film begins when Ms. Ledoyen's character announces to her moody, unemployed boyfriend that she is pregnant, then asks him to wait in a cafe while she reports to her new job as a room service clerk in a four-star hotel. The hour that follows was filmed in real time, never leaving Ms. Ledoyen as her character strides in and out of hotel rooms.
Mr. Jacquot says Ms. Ledoyen has an athletic grace and endurance to make a film like "A Single Girl." "She is strong, mentally and physically," he says, "and she doesn't ask questions."
Since "A Single Girl" opened in October to critical acclaim, the actress has received calls from Hollywood and from Woody Allen's casting agent. She is a fan of Mr. Allen's work, as well as of the American directors Gus Van Sant, Francis Ford Coppola and Stanley Kubrick.
"I'd like to make an American movie," she says. "But it's too soon to talk."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ms. Ledoyen in "A Single Girl," a sleeper hit that follows her character on her first day of work. (Strand Releasing)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: SINGLE GIRL, A (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (69%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (54%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (69%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNET & WWW (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); MOVIE CASTING (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); WOMEN (71%); WOMEN WORKERS (60%); 

PERSON: ABRAMOVITCH, INGRID; LEDOYEN, VIRGINIE WOODY ALLEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



6 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester;
A Shoe Company Finds White Plains Fits Its Needs

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
WHEN the Nine West Group, the women's shoe company, announced last month that, after trying on different styles for the better part of a year, it had found the perfect fit for its new corporate headquarters here, the sighs of relief were palpable.
While no one was exactly surprised by the news, which had been rumored for months, the prospect of removing one whole building from the market and infusing the city with up to 1,300 new employees was almost too good to be true. 
 "We're so delighted for the city," said Mayor Sy Schulman. "It's great to have attracted such a high-fashion and exciting company."
The Mayor added that the development could also bode well for The Westchester, the upscale megamall a short drive from the new headquarters site. "I understand Nine West has a high percentage of females at the executive level," the Mayor said. "That could provide a good supply of women shoppers to The Westchester."
The company, known for its own brand of shoes as well as such well-known names as Evan-Picone and Easy Spirit, is now based in Stamford, Conn. At a news conference on Nov. 14 attended by Gov. George E. Pataki, it announced its intention to relocate to 1111-1113 Westchester Avenue, a 370,000-square-foot building that is being vacated by Nynex.
"The biggest impact of this deal is not measurable in numbers," said Michael H. Siegel, an executive director at the Edward S. Gordon Company, a commercial broker with offices here. "It creates an optimism in the city's future, which translates to the county's future. It signals a recovery that has actually already started."
While White Plains has successfully attracted other high-profile companies in the last two years, such as Oxford Health Plans and Swiss Re, a reinsurance company, it nevertheless still struggles with a close to 30 percent vacancy rate, according to most estimates.
The Nine West deal alone is expected to have a major impact on those numbers, according to Maureen O'Boyle, a director with the Cushman & Wakefield office in Stamford, Conn. "It will affect White Plains by about 7.5 percentage points," Ms. O'Boyle said. The present vacancy rate of 29.1 will plummet to 21.6 percent.
The overall county vacancy rate of 18.5 percent, according to Cushman & Wakefield, will be lowered by about 2 points, "just considering the Nine West deal," Ms. O'Boyle said.
WHILE these high-profile deals that take up a great deal of space are anomalies in the market, Ms. O'Boyle explained, they do create momentum. "The market is really driven by 20,000 to 50,000 square foot deals," she said. "But whenever a large block of space is taken up, it has a significant impact. It creates the impression that New York State is a viable place to do business."
Nine West started looking for a new headquarters a year ago, after it acquired U.S. Shoe footwear group, of Cincinnati. "About a year ago at this time, we made it known that we needed 350,000 plus square feet in a business-friendly environment, which was also centrally located," explained Vincent Camuto, co-chairman of Nine West.
The company planned to consolidate its two business operations, relocating 1,200 to 1,300 employees, Mr. Camuto said. "The kind of space we needed wasn't available in Stamford, so we started to look at plots of land where we could build a new headquarters," he said. "But that would have taken about two and a half years to complete."
In contrast, the timing at White Plains couldn't have been more ideal, he said. Nynex is vacating the building on Westchester Avenue in February, which is when Nine West's lease runs out in Stamford.
An added inducement was the opportunity White Plains offered for possible expansion. "We're now a $1.3 billion company. We expect to be a $2 billion in a few years," Mr. Camuto said. "We need to know there's room to expand. In White Plains, there are buildings near the new location that we can move into when we need more space."
At first, the company was not thrilled about the prospect of moving to New York. "The perception of New York was not particularly business friendly," Mr. Camuto said. Then Charles A. Gargano, chairman of Empire State Development, went to see Mr. Camuto personally to sell him on the state.
"While we were talking, Mr. Gargano got the Governor on the phone," Mr. Camuto said. "Governor Pataki called from an airport or something and told me how interested he was in having our company in New York. It really personalized the situation. Without that assurance from the state, I don't think the deal would have been solidified."
Nine West actually started out in New York, when it opened for business at 9 West 57th Street in Manhattan in 1977. In Stamford, its address is 9 West Broad Street. "We feel strongly about keeping nine in our address in White Plains," Mr. Camuto said.
He has asked the city to change the building's address to 1009 Westchester Avenue. "It could also be 999 or 109, something with 9 in it," Mr. Cumuto explained.
Joseph Potenza, the city's Director of Planning, said he was now looking into the address change and hoped to accommodate the company's wishes. He said the city was also considering renaming a side street, now called Westchester Lane, to Nine West Plaza. "It's really the primary entrance to the building," Mr. Potenza said.
The state and local governments offered Nine West a package of incentives worth $7 million, according to Mr. Gargano. "Most of the package is in the form of tax credits," Mr. Gargano said. "There are also grants totaling $1.6 million. That kind of outlay is well worth it when you consider the benefits to the local economy."
MAYOR SCHULMAN said he spent weeks with the company working out an agreement about local property taxes. "They wanted assurance that their taxes would not be raised to an unreasonable level," the Mayor said. "We agreed to an inflation cap of 5.5 percent a year for the 25-year term of the lease." The exact terms of the lease have not been worked out yet, according to Robert S. Silver, president of R.S. Silver & Company, a commercial broker in Darien, Conn., that is representing Nine West.
"We've signed a comprehensive term agreement for 25 years," Mr. Silver said. "The final lease is with the lawyers and has not yet been signed. From our vantage pint, it's just a formality because everything of substance has already been agreed to."
Nine West will start moving to White Plains in March or April, according to Mr. Camuto. "By the end of the summer, we hope to have all our operations there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nine West is moving from Stamford, Conn., to a 370,000-square-foot building in White Plains. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 
Map of Westchester showing the location of White Plains.
 
Chart: "Vacancy Rates Decrease in Westchester" Percentage of available space in buildings of 20,000 square feet and larger. Government and medical buildings are not included. (CB Commercial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: SREN (SWX) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (64%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NINE WEST GROUP INC ; NYNEX CORP SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (64%); NINE WEST GROUP INC (58%); AQUANTIVE INC (54%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NINE WEST GROUP INC ; NYNEX CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RENTING AND LEASING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; OFFICE BUILDINGS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL FOOTWEAR (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (86%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); WOMEN'S MARKET (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); TRENDS (76%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (75%); COUNTIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); REINSURANCE (62%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER; CAMUTO, VINCENT MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



7 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: State's Littlest College Survives on Ukraine Connection

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM

 BODY:
UNDER the facade of a handsome Tudor building, across a wide expanse of lawn flecked with the yellows and reds of fallen leaves, a group of young men enjoy some time away from their books as they practice kicking, dribbling and shooting soccer balls into a net. A familiar autumnal image of a Connecticut campus, perhaps, yet one that would have been unimaginable only a few years ago.
In the 1980's, St. Basil College in Stamford had the smallest student body of any college in the state. Enrollments consisted at times of only a half-dozen students; there was even a year when the entire graduating class could be counted on one finger. Back then, the threat of losing state accreditation seemed very real. Forget soccer. This college's students would have had a hard time getting up a doubles match. Yet St. Basil kept operating, because it had to: It was the only seminary for Ukrainian Catholic priests in the United States. 
 The fact that their branch of Catholicism, with Byzantine rather than Roman roots, was being suppressed in its homeland by a Communist government gave the college something to live for. Nevertheless, it appeared St. Basil might soon close, as had many other Catholic seminaries in recent years.
Today St. Basil College has more students than it has seen in years: 51, and expected to rise steadily in the years to come. By 1999, if all goes according to plan, the college will have a hundred students for the first time ever. The reason is one of the most ambitious foreign study programs at an American college. Nearly all of St. Basil's student population is from Ukraine. They are united by what they call a common goal: To become priests back home in a land where such a calling was banned by law only a few years ago.
The program is described by its administrators as a classic case of Christian reciprocity: A native church that sent priests to America in the late 1800's to minister to Ukrainian immigrants is now receiving help from the descendants of those it once looked after.
"It was time to give a gift back, a hundred years later," said Msgr. John Terlecky, vice chairman of the school's board of trustees.
The program began in the fall of 1994. St. Basil's rector, the Rev. Edward P. Young said there is a severe need for seminaries to educate the crop of would-be-priests in Ukraine that emerged with the collapse of the Soviet Union. "Enrollment is overflowing," he said of the situation there. "Seminaries are stuffed to the gills. There is no room."
Monsignor Terlecky, who journeyed to Ukraine immediately after the fall of the Soviet Union, recalled newly created seminaries there with more than 300 beginning students and no program to speak of. "Here we were, who had prayed for years for the Lord of the harvest to send laborers into the harvest," he said. "Now they were showing up, and we had no place to put them."
In contrast, St. Basil College was a seminary with a program but no students. Established in 1939 when growing turmoil in Ukraine made the education of American priests there less feasible, St. Basil is on the former campus of a girls' boarding school, Glen Eden Academy, which had closed during the Depression. Enrollment had begun to decline in the late 1960's, and by the 1980's was down to a trickle.
As the Soviet Union faltered, Bishop Basil H. Losten had kept the seminary's state certification active during a three-year period when it no longer offered a full college program, only housing and some specialized courses in Ukrainian Catholicism. Bishop Losten -- one of four Ukrainian Catholic diocesan bishops in the United States whose parish of New England and New York State includes St. Basil -- said he did this with an eye toward the changes in the East. "When Communism fell, those kids in the Ukraine were going to need a place to study," he said. "Since the Motherland had helped us in times of immigration, I thought we could reciprocate in some way."
While the students will have to return to Ukraine for four more years of studies before completing their training, Bishop Losten said at St. Basil they get a core understanding of humanities and philosophy unavailable in their homeland, as well as a first-hand view of the West.
"Over there, you learn what they tell you to learn," Bishop Losten said. "You're not expected to learn for yourself. It's still a communistic system. Here, they learn to think and make decisions."
It is a stark contrast from the life they knew only a short time before. Sister Sheila Campbell, a Roman Catholic nun who teaches English to first-year arrivals, recalled meeting her first Ukrainian class in 1994. "When I walked in the door, they jumped up and stood at their desks," she said. "I nearly died."
The students, most of them still in their late teens, spend their first year completely immersed in learning English before beginning a four-year liberal arts college program. Courses include biology and psychology as well as Greek and Latin. English, not Ukrainian, is the main language spoken. There is even a new computer center on campus.
In addition to their school work, the students spend considerable time in St. Basil's chapel, either in quiet prayer or else in choir, singing Ukrainian hymns. Various prayer sessions run all day, from dawn till night, and limit the amount of available study time.
Marcel Cerny, 18, one of two non-Ukrainians at the college, is from Trencin, Slovakia. A second-year student, he acknowledged the pressure of mastering a new language, getting a college education, and studying for the priesthood all at the same time, 5,000 miles from home.
"It is God's calling," he said. "I felt as a young boy that God is calling me. Sure, it is tougher, but then you feel that you should try something new, that none of your friends did. You are going to fulfill God's command. He's leading you, and you just accept it."
Another second-year student, Roman Oliynyk of Sokal, Ukraine, said homesickness is a regular part of his life at St. Basil: "Sometimes I'm more homesick, sometimes less. My parents and family are all in Ukraine. I try to call them often, and write them letters, but it can't replace being with them. One of the priests told me if you miss someone, you have to pray more every day. And then God will help you survive, and make your life easier."
Mr. Oliynyk, at 21 one of the school's oldest students, remembers being a practicing Catholic behind the Iron Curtain. One Easter, he said, he was spotted entering a church by a teacher from his school. He and his parents had to meet with the principal to face possible disciplinary action. They were let off with a warning. "He convinced us it was a shame to visit the church," Mr. Oliynyk recalled. "Our ideal had to be Lenin and those other guys." He still went to church, but only after nightfall.
The ultimate threat for a religiously active Ukrainian Catholic in the Soviet Union was exile to Siberia, but the punishments the students described were less stringent, the main themes being social reproach and dishonor to their families. Andrew Palamar, a 19-year-old student from the Ukrainian city of Lviv, once had a necklace with a cross on it pulled off his neck by a physical education instructor. Like other students, he said such incidents, and the thinking behind them, may have buttressed his faith. "You feel it more," he said. "Someone says to you: 'Don't do this.' It makes you want to do it more."
There is a concern at St. Basil that the departure of a recognizable foe like Communism may be replaced by less identifiable but still worrisome adversaries, chiefly what Bishop Losten described as "the more violent and permissive media culture" of the West.
"The Soviet Union was atheistic, while our society is agnostic, with no moral stand," Father Young said. "We will talk about ethical ideas, but the Communists at least had an actual moral law, backed by an authority, the state, which for them was God. People in America don't want that."
St. Basil's clergymen acknowledge that one of the chief appeals of Ukrainian Catholicism in the West is with conservative Catholics. Many Roman Catholic priests joined the Eastern church, or "changed rites," as it is called, after the sweeping changes of the 1960's initiated in Roman Catholicism by Vatican II. Like Roman Catholics, Ukrainian Catholics recognize the Pope as their spiritual leader, but have their own hierarchy below him, centered in Lviv rather than Rome.
The students of St. Basil at times reflect a more conservative way of thinking. Sister Sheila noted that the students listened unhappily when she discussed the call in the West for liberal reforms like ordaining women. A married clergy would appear not to be an issue for Ukrainian Catholics since their priests are permitted to marry.
The per-year cost of the program is $1 million, according to Bishop Losten. Contributions come from across the United States, including "Adopt-a-Seminarian" programs run in Ukrainian Catholic parishes and donations by Roman Catholic groups like the Knights of Columbus. Support from Ukraine is non-existent. "They can't help us out," Monsignor Terlecky said. "They're still in a barter economy. We provide the bucks, and they provide the bodies."
With new students arriving every year and no class to graduate until 1999, that pressure will only mount in the immediate future. Bishop Losten acknowledged it is "a scramble" every year to come up with the necessary money for the year to come.
But the real concern is how the effort will pay off. How many of these students, once graduated, will opt to become priests? The average in Western seminaries is said to be only 1 out of 15. And students and teachers at St. Basil agree that some come to the school with what they call "mixed motives," including a desire to receive a valuable Western education for free.
"I think the bishop sees it as an investment," said the Rev. Paul Wolenski, a dean at the school. "One thing we say when raising funds is that we have high ideals for these boys no matter where they end up. If their vocation is not to be a priest, we hope they will go back home as very well-trained educators in Ukraine, to help the church on its feet."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Enrollment at St. Basil College in Stamford has climbed from a handful to 51 and more are on the way. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); SOCCER (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); ACCREDITATION (71%); IMMIGRATION (64%); 

PERSON: SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



8 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 26; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Works That Address Themselves to Social Issues

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS BRAFF

 BODY:

In the Eye of the Storm: An Art of Conscience, 1930-1970
 The Parrish Art Museum, 25 Job's Lane, Southampton. To Jan. 5. 283-2118.
A thoroughly rewarding exploration of responses to such social provocations as discrimination, war and the Great Depression, this large show also provides a context that enhances appreciation of works that have sometimes seemed destined to become minor footnotes in the history of American art. Thematic groupings put everything in sharper focus and suggest the weight of the moment's social pressures. 
 Organized by the American Federation of Arts, these paintings, drawings and prints were selected entirely from the extensive issue-oriented collection of Philip J. and Suzanne Schiller.
It was inevitable that 1930's work would be filled with comments about the Depression. Ida Abelman, Lucienne Bloch and Philip Evergood all use backdrops of industrial technology in their depictions of the bitter suffering unemployed as they point to the failed promise of modern research and development. Taking a different ironic twist, Philip Reisman paints a peddler, afforded only the harshest existence, who sells "God Bless America" banners for 50 cents. Somewhat ironic, too, is the way O. Louis Guglielmi's dramatically bold architectural details only serve to further isolate his sad figures.
Using the perspective of the impoverished gives the material a humanistic thrust and tends to lend broader meaning to the exhibition's second section, "The American Scene in the 1930's." When everyday subjects become heroic, canvases like Reginald Marsh's "Dance Hall Scene" invite more extensive iterpretation.
Notable, too, is the assembly of powerful paintings that reflect the civil rights conflict. George Tooker's psychologically resonant painting of a single black diner in a crowded restaurant is one of the show's highlights. Other outstanding works in the same section include Robert Gwathmey's "Custodian" and Joe Jones's highly effective Klu Klux Klan lynching scene, "American Justice."
Sensitive people also responded to the growing threat of Fascism in the 30's. Harry Sternberg portrays Fascism as a three-headed, chain wielding monster who walks over a burning world of corpses, religious symbols, books and instruments of learning. Compelling examples by Rockwell Kent and William Gropper specifically address the horrified reactions to the Spanish Civil War and the first aerial bombing of a civilian population.
Different decades come together in a gallery area dedicated to "The Horrors of War and the Dangers of Peace." A frightening, powerful human silhouette dominates Edward Hagedorn's etching "Bull's Eye," executed at a point when the American Artists' Congress was encouraging artists to address the issue of support for Republican Spain. Approximately 20 years later, Ben Shahn's assertive, caricature-like image of a military leader seems to suggest that governments be held accountable for decisions resulting in suffering and death.
In a final section, "Personal Statements," the impact of form and of expressive means upon content is strongest and the selections here add a somewhat unexpected perkiness to the show. One side effect is a greater sense of sympathy and appreciation for the social protest work being created by today's artists.
 
Keith Sonnier: Oriental-Occidental
 Art Gallery, State University of New York at Stony Brook. To Dec. 14. 632-7240.
An odd but gripping life-force emerges when Keith Sonnier arranges simple, streamlined materials into iconic shapes.
This sizable exhibition of large-scale wooden floor pieces, drawings and wall-hung bamboo sculptures concentrates on early 80's work inspired by visits to Bali, India and Japan and was organized by Donald Kuspit, an art critic and Stony Brook professor. The pieces represent a mid-point in a career that is most frequently associated with neon and light constructions.
Contrasts between Asian traditions and Western ideas are central to the theme presented here. It is not unusual for a work to combine an industrial orientation with ingredients like bamboo or segments of exotic logs that belong more to a timeless Eastern world of craftsmanship. Typically, the work blends a primitivistic vocabulary with a contemporary sense of mechanized, systemic order. Contributing greatly to the impact, too, is the way that iconic shapes also read as abstractions.
Perhaps equally important is the way that raw materials read as ethnic or cultural signifiers. A consistent strength throughout the artist's career has been his gift for turning his expressive means into content.
Most wall pieces are as assertive as the larger sculptures. "Nyoman," a tubular assemblage with joinings engineered by pegs and slots, takes special power from its headlike deep black circular opening, and "Wayang" seems to take an aggressive force from its projecting unit and its bold tones. "Vishnu" uses a carefully bent center segment of painted bamboo to create a physical feeling of pushing outward and serves as a reminder of Mr. Sonnier's links to the Minimalist sensibility.
The means may be austere, but hints of emotion are frequently present. Often color triggers unexpected visual sensations, as it does in "Jingo," which has red pigment applied to its rough tree bark. Sensuous qualities are introduced not just by resonant paint tones but also by the soothing regularity of the shaped components.
Wonderful large, boldly colored drawings relating to the sculptural themes pulsate with energy. Swift lines and loose marks suggest spontaneity, yet the sheets are clearly concerned with describing and clarifying the constrasts and tensions that play a crucial role in the three-dimensional pieces.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Study for Goyescas," far left, a brush, ink and watercolor on paper, by Ben Shahn.; "God Bless America," left, part of a show at the Parrish Art Museum, by Philip Reisman.; "Jingo," Japanese cypress, hardwood, dry pigment and wax, by Keith Sonnier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS (57%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS (57%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (66%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ART HISTORY (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); RELIGION (66%); RESTAURANTS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



9 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 28; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: A LA CARTE;
Brazilian Spot Offers Variety and Quantity

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. SCHOLEM

 BODY:
AT the new Green Field restaurant in Farmingdale the food is Brazilian, the owner is Korean and the servers are South American and Portuguese.
This cavernous, 450-seat spot, at 2377 Broad Hollow Road (845-4555), called Green Field Churrascaria, is an all-you-can-eat extravaganza of barbecued steaks, chicken, lamb, turkey, quail, ribs, sausage, rabbit, duck and shish kebob plus a salad bar with more than 20 choices and an additional 10 or so hot accompaniments, all for $16.95. 
 This white-tablecloth restaurant, with its stuffed animal heads, Brazilian music and flags, carpeting, beamed ceilings, valet parking and outdoor waterfall that washes over the front window replaced a Ground Round at this site.
It is the third Green Field; the original in Corona, Queens, and the second in Hackensack, N.J., have proved to be immensely successful enterprises. They especially appeal to determined eaters, including those hard-to-fill walking appetites called teen-agers.
Half-red, half-green pegs on each table are used to start the barbecue parade. Turn the green side up and waiters instantly swoop down with whatever rotating skewered morsels are ready from the kitchen's open barbecue pit. To sample the hot or cold buffet, or simply to take a breather, flip the pawn-sized piece to red.
While the quality of the food at Green Field varies, its quantity, variety and value is undeniable. Among the meats I sampled were exemplary skirt steak, juicy beef tenderloin, plump sausages, ordinary shish kebob, lamb and spare ribs, slightly dry sirloin steak, tender turkey cubes wrapped in bacon, moist, tasty quail, duck and chicken thighs and surprisingly good chicken hearts.
This Brazilian version of a dim sum meal, in which diners select from tableside skewers rather than rolling carts containing Chinese tidbits, is preceded by a plate of thin, crisp french fries, onion rings and plantains that is served almost immediately upon being seated. It would make more sense to have them arrive later, rather than with pre-entree salads, which are the initial focus. The array of salads that precede this protein overload goes from fresh lettuce, watercress, tomatoes, pickles and cauliflower to tuna salad.
The hot-plate buffet choices include everything from spaghetti to feijoada (a Brazilian stew of tasty chorizo sausage, thinly sliced pork, beef and smoked tongue, accompanied by rice). It needed seasoning, as did another Brazilian standby, black bean soup. Potatoes, vegetables, rice and rice and bean combinations make up most of the remainder of the meat accompaniments.
Desserts are not included in the price of the dinner, but few will have the capacity to even consider them.
 
Changes
The Nicholas James Restaurant, at 2057 Merrick Road in Merrick (546-4805), has been purchased by its chef, Kevin Lebov; his wife, Jeralyn, and father, Charles. Mr. Lebov, who was the executive chef at Enotica Toscana in Douglaston, Queens, until he came to Merrick six months ago, now serves different accompaniments with each entree and offers architecturally interesting plate presentations. He has also added a number of main courses to the menu.
 
Openings
The Mixing Bowl, a casual 29-seat cafe at 2601 Merrick Road, Bellmore (826-7971), is open every day, offers all dishes on an eat-in or takeout basis and prices its menu entrees at $10 or less.
John Lopes and William Galetti, the owners, who are both in their mid-20's, have worked at various Island restaurants. Mr. Lopes at La Marmite and L'Endroit and Mr. Galetti, who is also the chef, at the George Washington Manor, La Marmite and Inn on the Harbor. Maureen Denning, the sous chef, also saw service at Inn on the Harbor.
The Mixing Bowl features on-premises baking, gourmet pizzas, cold salads and sandwiches in addition to complete meals.
Galleria Pizza, a popular 14-year-old Italian takeout spot at 1339 Merrick Avenue, Merrick (623-7167), is scheduled to open the 35-seat Galleria Ristorante in an adjacent store on Dec. 16.
 
Potpourri
Dickens fever is rampant in Port Jefferson in anticipation of the village's Charles Dickens festival next weekend. In addition to parades, choirs, Victorian costumes, performances of Dickens's " Christmas Carol" by Theater 3, walking tours, trolley rides and dance performances, much of the celebration will focus on Dickensian food.
On Friday evening, the James Bay Brewery (928-2525) will serve a holiday goose dinner and ale house specialties. On Saturday, the Presbyterian Church is serving an elegant English tea with homemade cakes and pastries presented on vintage china. Danfords Inn (928-5200) is presenting a Victorian brunch ($21.95) on Sunday that includes dishes like loin of beef with Yorkshire pudding, turkey stuffed with apricots and walnuts, sherried prawns with puff pastry and Victorian chocolate yule log.
Ben's Kosher Delicatessen, Restaurant and Caterers, the Long Island chain, has opened in Manhattan, where the kosher restaurant Lou G. Siegel was for many years. Ben's Kosher, at 209 West 38th Street, seats 240, has counter space, a full bar and a private dining room.
Ben's is owned by Ronnie and Cindy Dragoon, who have nine other locations in Queens and Long Island.
The Dilina Restaurant, at 47-20 Bell Boulevard in Bayside (718- 423-1245), has introduced a menu for the cold weather. Heading the list of autumn-winter dishes is stifatho ($12.95), the Hellenic version of rabbit stew. Also available is arni ghastra, a lamb dish prepared in an individual-size clay pot that has been sealed with dough before being placed in the fire.
Paolo's, 20 Route 27, Southampton (283-1230), now serves brunch on Saturday and Sunday. Brunch items include fritatta of the day, grilled chicken, bacon, lettuce and tomato with shoestring potatoes, three eggs any style with toast and hash browns, and fried oyster "Po Boy" with mustard mayonnaise and shoestring potatoes.
Palmer Cabernet Sauvignon was poured for the King and Queen of Sweden at the official celebration commemorating the wave of Swedish immigrants to the United States. After ceremonies at the Ellis Island Immigration Museum, Palmer wines were poured at a reception at the Swedish Consulate. The Aquebogue winery made its first shipment of wine to Sweden earlier this year.
Seventy-five Main, Southampton, (283-7575), is serving a three-course prix fixe pre-movie supper. The meal, which is available Monday through Sunday from 5:30 to 7:30 P.M., offers any pasta on the menu as an entree.
Balzarini's, 210 Hampton Road, Southampton (283-0704), has a new three-course prix fixe special every Sunday night. The farmers' table special includes a salad and selections from their repertory of country-style foods and dessert. Balzarini's farmers table costs $13.50.
Al Dente Ristorante, 61 Hill Street, Southampton (283-9323), is offering three economical special dinners: a Monday create-your-own pasta night ($14); a Wednesday Mediterranean four-course dinner ($15) and a sunset special, from 5 to 6:30 P.M. for $15.
The Blue Parrot, 33A Main Street, East Hampton (324-3609), has started a Sunday all-you-can-eat $9.95 special. Diners are offered a Mexican buffet that includes: chicken enchiladas; pasta of the day; spinach and goat cheese quesadillas; Indian corn salad, house salad and rotating specials.
 
Wine Tastings
The Fish Kebab Seafood Restaurant, at 286 Main Street in Port Washington (883-1515), has scheduled a Greek wine tasting at 7 P.M. this Wednesday. The four-course, $39.99 dinner includes an entree of jumbo shrimp baked in light tomato sauce and topped with feta cheese-orzo pilaf.
Five other Mediterranean wine tasting dinners have been scheduled for 1997: Cypress, Jan. 22; Israel, Feb. 19; Morocco, March 19, Algeria, April 16 and Lebanon/Syria, May 14.
The San Marco Ristorante, at 658 Motor Parkway, Hauppauge (510-0088), is presenting a winter gourmet dinner featuring a selection of Kenwood California wines on Tuesday at 7 P.M. The entree to be served is baby filet mignon over portobello mushroom topped with fondue cheese in a fondant wine sauce accompanied by Kennwood cabernet sauvignon 1993.
Fusion Grille is holding a $55 wine dinner featuring Jamesport wines on Tuesday at 7 P.M. An entree of grilled Axis venison will be accompanied by Jamesport's 1993 merlot, a gold medal winner at the New York State Wine Classic. Fusion Grille is at 316 East Main Street, East Setauket (751-2200).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (91%); SOUTH AMERICA (88%); UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (91%); SOUTH AMERICA (88%); UNITED STATES (56%); NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (89%); MEATS (89%); POULTRY (78%); BEEF (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



10 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2325 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Again Renew Sunset Park

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
THE history of the Sunset Park community of Brooklyn is a tale of the effect of waves of immigration on community life. In the 1990's, the tale is being retold with new twists.
One has been brought about by the arrival of Chinese immigrants from Hong Kong and the mainland in what has come to be known as the Brooklyn Chinatown, which also embraces parts of Borough Park and Bay Ridge but is now expanding mainly in Sunset Park. Their interest in home buying is the major force driving the housing market. Their presence has affected commercial real estate as well, lifting values and transforming parts of Eighth Avenue, a major retail street, northward from the N line subway station at 60th Street. 
 The other is a tale of another commercial thoroughfare, Fifth Avenue, three long blocks and a different ethnic world away from Eighth Avenue. There the ethnically mixed customer base includes many Latinos, and as the economy has improved more small-chain retailers are arriving to replace Mom-and-Pop operations.
The big current question is how these operations will be affected by the opening Nov. 21 of a new Costco superstore near the waterfront.
With the store near the 39th Street exit of the Gowanus Expressway, which runs above Third Avenue, the target market is regional not local. But will it undercut neighborhood shopping on Fifth Avenue?
Officials of the Giuliani administration are eager to move through the City Council zoning legislation that would make it easier to develop such superstores citywide, and opponents of the initiative will no doubt monitor closely the impact of Costco on Fifth Avenue.
But so far, it is the home-buying propensities of Chinese immigrants, and their ability to live frugally and save in a mutually supportive extended family, that has already had the most noticeable real-estate impact.
"In China we were very poor, so we came here," said Rong Ling Xie, who came to the United States from the mainland in 1985 and now works in a plumbing supply store. Sam Lo, the salesman for N.Y. NG Real Estate through whom Mr. Xie bought a two-family house near Eighth Avenue last August, acted as his translator during an interview a few days ago.
"My wife works, I work," said Mr. Xie, who is 52. "The kids help on holidays. My daughter took part-time jobs after school." Mr. Xie and his wife have three children, daughters 27 and 18 and a son 24. Saving assiduously, the family was able to put $100,000 into the purchase a house that sold for $209,000.
Sunset Park is usually defined as the area from 65th Street on the south to the Prospect Expressway on the north, from the industrialized waterfront on the west to Eighth Avenue on the east. In that area the national census in 1990 found the population to be 90,000. On the basis of data from the Department of City Planning it appears that the population has grown to about 100,000 this year, mainly because of new births. Much of the new immigration has been offset by deaths and the departure of older residents.
The area has been a port of entry for immigrants for over a century. First came Scandinavians, then Irish, and then Italians, Poles and Greeks. With the loss of industrial jobs on the waterfront in the 50's, a long decline began.
But in the 80's, resurgence began, partly as a result of young American households seeking starter urban housing, but also because of a new wave bringing in Hispanic, Chinese, Korean and Middle Eastern immigrants, among others. Many other "immigrants" were young white families from Manhattan and other areas in Brooklyn. In 1990, a third of the population was found to have come originally from Puerto Rico. There are 127 distinct nationality groups, local representatives say.
Its historic hospitality to immigrants has made Sunset Park the subject of scholarly study of the impact of immigration on city life. In the 1990 book "New People in Old Neighborhoods," the urban economist Louis Winnick says that the decline of Sunset Park after World War II was reversed not so much by housing subsidies and community action as by the reopening of the gates of immigration by Congress in 1965.
"In their number are the toiling families who own the small bodegas, and the Chinese second chef whose wife stitches garments," Mr. Winnick wrote. "They eke out the monthly rent (sometimes with the help of a boarder or two) in a house that the frugal among them yearn one day to buy."
QUITE possibly Liang Pei Lin, 34, and his sister, Ying Hing Lin, 30, would recognize their family in that description. Ms. Lin arrived in the United States in 1986 with her parents from Guangzhou in China. Her brother came two years later. Her father worked in a garment factory in Chinatown while Ms. Lin finished high school and started college, meanwhile learning English.
The family first rented in Chinatown and in 1988 moved to Sunset Park as renters. Ms. Lin, now married, works in a bank at the World Trade Center and hopes to finish her college work at Brooklyn College. Her brother, still learning English, drives a delivery van in Chinatown for a noodle company.
In May of last year the entire family bought a two-family house in Sunset Park for $218,000. "Everybody works, and we all contributed," Ms. Lin said. She was able to contribute $10,000, saved over eight years.
"Every time we pay the rent, the rent is gone," she said. "We felt that if we buy a house, after 10 years, even if the value doesn't go up, we still have our own house."
The pace of home sales to Chinese buyers -- or for that matter the pace of new arrivals -- has not been formally tracked. The total Asian population in Sunset Park, Bay Ridge and Borough Park is estimated at 65,000 by the Brooklyn Chinese-American Association. All but about 8 percent of the Asian population is Chinese, said Paul P. Mak, president of the association.
"Over the last four or five years many houses have been bought by Asians within the community as investments," said Mr. Mak. But there are no figures on total sales, or on whether houses have been bought for occupancy or as rentals.
Chang Xie, director of the Brooklyn branch of the Chinese-American Planning Council, which provides services from offices at 6022 Seventh Avenue in Sunset Park, estimated that there have been about 250 new Chinese-American homeowners in the last six years in his service area. The area embraces not only Sunset Park, but also the close-by section of Borough Park between Eighth and Ninth Avenues.
Mr. Xie said the increase has taken place from 65th Street as far north as 39th Street on both sides of Eighth Avenue. Most of the new arrivals -- perhaps 80 percent -- are not home buyers but renters. Many work in the garment factories that have sprung up near 60th Street or in restaurants on Eighth Avenue. There are about 200 garment factories in the district, employing an estimated 4,000 people. But another attraction of the Brooklyn Chinatown to the Chinese is the subway station at Eighth Avenue and 60th Street, where the N train takes a passenger to Chinatown in 30 minutes.
"Home prices are fairly stable right now, but it's already pretty expensive for working-class people," Mr. Xie said. Most families earn between $30,000 and $40,000 a year, he said, with usually both a husband and wife working. If there are grown children in the family -- and there often are -- that figure will be higher, he said.
In home buying, many of the newcomers have turned to local Chinese-run brokerages. On Eighth Avenue at 56th Street, the large storefront office of LCCW Realty stays open at night and salespeople sit at a half-dozen desks awaiting after-work customers. "Whatever we have, we sell," said Hon Leung, the broker, who opened the office eight years ago after 12 years in Park Slope. "It's a seller's market."
In another real estate office, N.Y. NG Real Estate at Seventh Avenue and 60th Street, Grace Ng, the broker, said that two-family houses she was selling for $60,000 to $75,000 12 years ago are now selling for $200,000 to $250,000. But at the height of the market, from 1989 to 1991, prices got as high as $320,000. The most favored location is from Seventh to Ninth Avenues between 55th and 60th Streets.
ON Eighth Avenue itself, commercial development has taken the form of store renovation, often for new restaurants. The largest is the 400-seat Jade Plaza, with a flashy gray and purple facade, completed a year ago at 61st Street as a total renovation of an 8,500-square-foot supermarket. The contractor who did the work, M. Kee Construction of Manhattan, also renovated a former refrigerator repair shop as the Ocean Palace restaurant on 55th Street earlier.
Notable by their absence are the clothing and other household-goods stores that cater to a different ethnic group on Fifth Avenue. There, according to brokers, Latino families are freer spenders than the Chinese arrivals, who have no great reputation as buyers of stylish clothing or personal adornments. On Fifth Avenue, a proliferation of newer chain stores cater to people with those tastes. "In the last two years the neighborhood has changed," said Don Stavropoulos, who has run the 90-seat Seebodes restaurant on Fifth Avenue near 49th Street for 26 years and remembers a time when there were seven Irish bars on a two-block stretch of the avenue. The Hispanic population is predominantly Puerto Rican but also Dominican and Mexican, with a mixture of Koreans, Chinese and Arabs, Mr. Stavropoulos said. But most of the newest arrivals are Mexicans, and the menu has been updated to cater to Hispanic tastes.
"The problem for property owners is to find a way to gather enough adjacent property to attract the big boys," said Steve Petros, who operates Petbro Realty on Fifth Avenue near 54th Street. Four 20-foot-wide buildings on the avenue brought under a single owner can create the 80-foot front that will attract the larger chain.
The highest rents for ground floor space -- in the range of $35 to $40 a square foot per year on a net lease, in which the store owner pays the taxes, insurance, water and sewer charges and repairs -- are obtained between 49th Street and 56th, mostly for 2,000-square-foot stores with a 20-foot frontage.
Competition from the Costco store may affect these rent levels. On the other hand, it is not easy to forecast the effect on business with certainty. Eventually Fifth Avenue may provide a good test of the effect of one type of big-box store -- the general merchandise outlet where people pay an annual fee to shop for large quantities of goods at steep discounts -- on a thriving neighborhood shopping street.
"It's going to be harmful," said Robert Bernard, executive director of the Fifth Avenue Business Improvement District. "We don't mind competition, but this is a competitor with the unfair advantage of tax breaks." The store is receiving city tax abatements for 12 years, and because the land is in a state economic development zone the company is eligible for a "wage tax credit" worth $1,500 a year for five years for each new low-income employee.
One merchant, Marc Sutton, said he thought that certain retailers would be hurt -- sellers of juvenile furniture, as an example -- but that his own children's clothing business would not be. Mr. Sutton runs the Kidstown chain, with five stores citywide. "Costco's not big on the clothing line," he said.
The arrival of some types of new stores will continue, said Ross M. Branca, a lawyer on 54th Street who is president of the improvement district, but he believes that prospects have dimmed for other types, such as supermarkets, auto supply stores and pharmacies. He also expects a greater Chinese influence on Fifth Avenue. "We're seeing it already," he said.
The Costco store has 150,000 square feet of selling space for food and a wide variety of merchandise on two levels. There is parking for more than 500 cars on a 6 1/2-acre site. The Planning Commission gave its approval for a store that the developer -- Peter Davidson, who owned the pipe supply business that had operated on the property for many years -- thought would be built for Caldor's. But when Caldor's ran into financial difficulties Price Costco bought the property. It also decided to go forward with the plans that had been approved for Caldor's, thus giving the company a two-level rather than a one-level store, a departure from its usual approach.
Not all small-store operators on Fifth Avenue are intimidated by the new big-store arrival. American Jeans, a nine-year-old chain with five stores in moderate-income neighborhoods of Brooklyn, opened a second store on Fifth Avenue in Sunset Park on 50th Street four years ago because "we recognized it was an excellent shopping center," said Robert Brand, the general manager. American Jeans now is concentrating its expansion moves in Manhattan. It has a one-year-old store on 57th Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, and another store is planned at the South Street Seaport.
UNPERTURBED by Costco, Mr. Brand said, "We have our own niche in the name-brand look, and it's a long way from Fifth Avenue to Third Avenue."
Another small chain on the avenue is Vim, which has eight men's and women's sportswear stores in moderate-income neighborhoods of Brooklyn. One of the stores opened three years ago at Fifth Avenue and 48th Street in Sunset Park. Elazar Joseph, a partner in the family-owned business, said that merchants have good reason to worry because the new Costco will weaken Fifth Avenue as a place for holiday shopping. People who carry furniture, housewares and food will suffer, he said.
"But when you're in business, you have to live with the big box," Mr. Joseph said. "If you are a small box, you have to give better service and appeal to the local people. We have the advantage of being local people, rather than people in Connecticut deciding what to buy for the people in Sunset Park."

GRAPHIC: Photos: New Costco store in Sunset Park. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times); Stores along Fifth Avenue. 55th Street near Sixth Avenue. Eighth Avenue at 58th Street in Sunset Park is part of a Brooklyn Chinatown created by immigration from Hong Kong and China's mainland. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Along Fifth Avenue, small-chain retailers cater to Latino buyers. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) (pg. 6)
 
Maps of Brooklyn showing the location of Sunset Park. (pgs. 1 & 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (93%); CHINA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SUNSET PARK (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (93%); CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); HOUSING; CHINESE-AMERICANS IMMIGRATION (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); FAMILY (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); CHILDREN (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); TRENDS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); PLUMBING SUPPLY STORES (69%); CENSUS (61%); INTERVIEWS (60%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



11 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Wary Support for Pataki Welfare Plan

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
A SWEEPING proposal by Gov. George E. Pataki to revise the state's welfare system by cutting benefits and widening work programs is gaining cautious support from Republican elected officials on Long Island.
But many of the same officials are concerned that the revisions, if adopted in their present form by the State Legislature, may shift state costs to the counties, eventually forcing higher property taxes. 
 Democrats and advocates for the poor have attacked the Governor's proposal as mean-spirited and harshly restrictive. They said Federal legislation signed by President Clinton in August mandated broad changes in the state system, but they criticized Mr. Pataki for going beyond what was required.
An example, they said, is a reduction in food stamp benefits in the Pataki plan even though the program is paid for by the Federal Government.
The officials and welfare agencies said the Nassau and Suffolk social service departments might also be faced with responsibility for a growing number of indigent people, many of them single mothers with children, who no longer qualified for grants or had grants reduced.
Under Mr. Pataki's plan, a voucher system for food and housing would be administered by the counties to serve as a last resort for legal immigrants, recipients who did not comply with new work requirements, and others who were ineligible for other assistance for a variety of reasons.
The plan also makes the counties responsible for arranging for so-called workfare jobs for the greater number of welfare clients who would be required to work 20 hours a week as a condition for receiving grants and benefits.
While Nassau and Suffolk have begun workfare programs of their own, the Pataki plan would sharply increase the number of welfare recipients required to work.
Workfare jobs are typically low-level positions like janitors' aides, nurses' aides and clerical assistants in county agencies.
In cases involving single mothers with children, by far the largest group of welfare recipients, the counties would also assume new duties for arranging child care.
The Pataki plan would require that all single mothers enter workfare programs or work-training programs. A one-time exemption would be available for mothers with children under one year old.
Last week, President Clinton indicated he would seek to soften work requirements and food stamp cuts in the Federal welfare law, an action that would potentially alter how New York and other states respond to the Federal mandate for welfare program changes.
But Long Island welfare agencies were already contemplating changes that would be required under the Pataki plan, and forseeing problems.
"We're not really prepared because everything Governor Pataki proposed has to pass first," said Jerome J. Linder, the chief deputy commissioner of the Suffolk County Department of Social Services.
Mr. Linder said "a significant delay" by the State Legislature in acting on the plan would add to uncertainties about whether major changes in the county's welfare delivery system would be required.
"We would have to issue thousands of vouchers each month," he said. He said the county had recently closed a service center in Mastic and taken other steps toward reorganization that would be reversed if voucher distribution was required.
"This is a totally new way of thinking about how we provide for our needy in Suffolk County," Mr. Linder said. "And in terms of philosophy it is really the way to go. But the mechanics of the safety net part are very difficult."
"We worry about cost shifts," he said. "That's a big consideration for us."
The department has a $402 million annual budget. Steps to lower welfare costs have reduced the caseloads of the Home Relief and Aid to Families with Dependent Children from 19,241 in 1993 to 12,549. Suffolk led the state in requiring workfare.
The Suffolk County Executive, Robert J. Gaffney, said Mr. Pataki had "responded very appropriately" to the Federal mandate for welfare change. "The program he proposed is something the county can make work," he said. "Will it be easy? Not really. But we are happy with it and many of the things Suffolk County has been doing are incorporated in it."
But the chairman of a Suffolk welfare reform task force, County Legislator Allan E. Binder, Republican of Huntington, said the Pataki plan could strain county finances. "Our county is going to have to fight to make sure this is not a cost shift from state income taxes to county property taxes," he said.
"Weaning people off welfare and the voucher system are positive things," Mr. Binder said. "The question is, how do we implement it?"
In Nassau, where workfare has also been required for several years, County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta said in a statement that the Pataki proposals "mirror steps we have already taken."
"While we will be analyzing the Governor's proposal in greater detail, any effort to cut taxpayer costs and eliminate welfare fraud while meeting the legitimate concerns of the needy will be helpful," the statement said.
Irene Lapidez, the Nassau County Social Services Commissioner, said her department was "well positioned to deal with most of the proposed welfare reform changes."
She said the county's Home Relief caseload was down 23 percent since January because of new assessment procedures. The program costs are divided between the state and the county.
The caseload for Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, a federally subsidized program that replaced the Aid to Families with Dependent Children, declined 10 percent in the same period, she said. The Federal Government pays 50 percent of program costs. The state and counties divide the remainder.
But the extent of state support under the Pataki plan was an issue, Ms. Lapidez said.
"I am most concerned about the amount of funding that will be allocated to Nassau County so that we can continue programs that have been successful in moving individuals from welfare to work," she said. "I understand that we have to do business differently, and it has always been my philosophy that public assistance should be temporary assistance. However, adequate funding for programs such as day care and transitional services is necessary if we are to achieve our mission."
She called on Nassau businesses to hire recipients of public assistance. "The best way to end welfare dependence is with a paying job," she said.
Nassau had 2,928 Home Relief cases in October, down from 3,813 in January. The caseload of Temporary Assistance to Needy Families was down from 7,333 to 6,589 over the same period.
Advocates for welfare recipients said such statistics revealed little about the misery of mothers and others caught in a system that had grown consistently harsher.
"Workfare is nothing less than slavery," said Therese Scofield, the coordinator of Welfare Warriors, a 235-member group of single mothers receiving welfare.
Ms. Scofield, a former welfare mother from Coram who ran unsuccessfully as a Democrat for the New York State Assembly this fall, said the current Suffolk workfare program compelled mothers with young children to report to "slave sites" where they worked part time doing menial tasks as a condition for receiving grants.
Many of the women, she said, are forced to leave their children "in very questionable situations or even dangerous ones" while they work. She said there was a long waiting list for a Suffolk County program that subsidizes child-care costs, compounding the problem.
The Pataki plan, she said, would worsen an unbearable situation by requiring more mothers to work, cutting educational programs, lengthening work schedules and reducing grants by 45 percent in increments.
"The underlying premise is that the more they torture you and make your life hell, the more likely it is that a job will magically pop up that you are qualified for," she said.
Jack T. O'Connell, the executive director of the Health and Welfare Council of Nassau, a private, not-for-profit advocacy group for the poor, said the Pataki plan was "bad for a number of reasons."
"I don't think people understand the economic implications of welfare reform on Long Island," he said. He said food stamp programs and other welfare programs added $100 million to the Long Island economy in Federal money alone. Federal cuts in food stamps, he said, would harm food stores from "Mom and Pops to Waldbaum's and King Kullen."
Mr. O'Connell said Mr. Pataki's workfare plan was also flawed. "What he said was everybody has to work, but he leaves it up to the counties to make sure that people have work," he said. "Maybe this is the Governor's idea of a joke."
At the Interfaith Nutrition Network, a not-for-profit group that operates 20 soup kitchens on Long Island, Barbara McCaffrey, a volunteer coordinator, said the Pataki plan would swell the ranks of the hungry.
"It's going to make life a lot harder," she said. "Whatever resources you have are now going to go into finding a place to stay. There won't be money left for food."
She said food pantries that serve the poor were having trouble keeping stocked. "They can't keep the food in there," she said. "It's in, it's out."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available COUNTIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); FOOD STAMPS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



12 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 12; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Simple Gifts, Pieced Together With Care

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ZIMMER 

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
IN the golden age of Amish quilts, 1860 to 1950, the women who made them would say that their intention was to help the community keep warm. But this explanation wouldn't hold up in court. There are far easier ways to make a blanket than these quilts. "Lit From Within: Amish Quilts of Lancaster County," at the Zimmerli Art Museum here, includes 34 antique quilts from Lancaster County, Pa., that dazzle and at the same time suggest other reasons for their creation.
The quilts are from the Esprit sportswear company's collection, based in San Francisco. Doug Tompkins, who until recently was an owner of the company, collected only Lancaster Amish quilts because, he says, they are masterpieces of design. The collection's curator, Julie Silber, who is also the curator of the Zimmerli exhibition, said she saw the quilts as "fabric documents" that hold the lives of the women who made them and the humble values of community. Ms. Silber called the quilts "textiles as text." "This association is was more than wordplay," she said, "Think of how we say 'spinning a yarn' or 'unraveling a mystery.' " Since she also believes in the written story, each quilt is accompanied by a pertinent and economically worded block of text. 
 Visually, the story is repeated over and over with minor variations. Common to all the quilts are geometric motifs of pieced-together fabric, bold counterpoint to the subtle, flowing patterns of small stitches that hold the three layers of a quilt together. The Amish do not value innovation, and all antique quilts from Lancaster County fall into a few categories: Center Square, Diamond, Bars, Ninepatch, and Sunshine and Shadow. It is tempting to seek religious meaning in the stark presentation of a central image, and often the subdued quilting stitches form an elaborate star. But when the Amish are asked about meanings, they say that don't know, Ms. Silber said. This may mean that they really don't know if there is symbolism attached, or that connotations have been forgotten.
Ms. Silber disdains the frequent comparison between Amish quilts and modern painting, especially Geometric Abstraction and Minimalism. She said it was usually made to justify the quilts, which stand on their own as objects made in a discipline with its own full history and set of standards. "And they came first," she said. "Whether, as is claimed, Greenwich Village painters in the 1930's and 1940's drove to Amish country and bought quilts, I don't know. But the Amish certainly didn't visit Greenwich Village."
The Amish subscribe to the Ordnung, a set of rules that, in its written form, specifies religious doctrine and practice, but in its unwritten form is a practical framework for their lives, of which the quilts are a part. Ms. Silber calls it "a way of doing things," and one of the major taboos is showiness. The Amish believe sewing many small pieces together can engender prideful feelings, so large pieces are used in quiltmaking, and the fabrics are the same ones used to make clothing. But there seem to be few prohibitions about color. The earlier quilts are commonly dominated by subdued earth tones. These were later supplanted by a palette of richly saturated, glowing colors, minus white and yellow. Ms Silber remembers that the colors of one quilt she was contemplating buying were described to her over the phone as "apple green, forest green, turquoise and brown." But the unappetizing combination turned out to be a knockout Sunshine and Shadow quilt.
The motif is named for the way it seems to catch light in a flickering way. Even more tantalizing names for it, considering the circumscribed Amish way of life, are Trip Around the World and Grandmother's Dream. Its ornateness is relative, for while it is indeed made of many small pieces, it is simple compared with the compositions on quilts in general. Amish versions of the Crazy Quilt, named for its seemingly random juxtaposition of scraps of fabric, never get out of hand, and the Ordnung's prescribed order and harmony is respected.
Most antique Lancaster Amish quilts were bought up in the 1960's and have been bought and sold several times, Ms. Silber said. Consequently, they are in very few hands. This means the history of a particular quilt and the name of its maker are usually unknown. "But these things could still be found out," she said. "I'll bet there's someone in the community who could tell you who made every one of these. But if someone wants to document this information, they'd better do it in the next 10 years."
The Lancaster Amish still make quilts, but now primarily on a commercial basis. It is a large part of their income, for much of their farmland has been overfarmed or sold off. "You can give a quiltmaker a piece of fabric, even one with a pattern on it, and she'll make a quilt to order," Ms. Silber said. In the small balcony space in the gallery, she has installed a small display on the Lancaster Amish, including a bright lineup of women's dresses. "People don't realize how colorful the Amish are," she said. "People confuse them with the Shakers. The average Amish family has eight children, and the Shakers, of course, have none."
A T the Zimmerli, the growing interest in quilts, the Amish and folk art in general will be accommodated by lunch-hour gallery tours on Wednesday and Dec. 18, and by family workshops devoted to the shapes and colors in Amish quilts on Dec. 14 and Feb. 8. A Sunday afternoon lecture series beginning on Jan. 26 will feature a range of topics, pertaining to quilts with a quilt making demonstration on Feb. 9.
Coincidentally, on Wednesday the Newark Museum will open an exhibition of 38 quilts and related items, including two petticoats, from its collection. The show ranges from the 18th century, represented by a piece of Dutch quilting, to the early 1990's. It includes examples from all over America, but about two-thirds of them are from New Jersey, historically a major quiltmaking center. Lectures there will will include "Beyond Quilts: Contemporary Wearable Art" on Saturday, "African-American Quiltmaking" on Dec. 11 and "Glorious American Quilts" on Dec. 19. Information: (201) 596-6550.
"Amish life is bound to change," Ms. Silber said. "For example, no one has written down recipes, and the girls are forgetting how to cook. The buggies go right by McDonald's, and so they now eat there." On the balcony, several engaging photographs portray the simple strength of the Amish way of life. At the suggestion that the rest of the world might want to join them, Ms. Silber made a sweeping gesture over the array of vibrant quilts hanging below. "This shows that they're people with their heads on straight," she said. "They make good models for the 90's."
 
LIT FROM WITHIN
 Zimmerli Art Museum
George and Hamilton Streets, New Brunswick
Amish quilts of Lancaster County, Pa. Though Feb. 16. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 P.M. The museum will be closed from Dec. 25 to Jan. 1.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Sunshine and Shadow quilt, circa 1910, at the Zimmerli. (Sharon Risedorph)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ESPRIT CO; ZIMMERLI ART MUSEUM

ORGANIZATION: ESPRIT CO; ZIMMERLI ART MUSEUM

GEOGRAPHIC: LANCASTER COUNTY (PA); UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: QUILTS; AMISH; REVIEWS QUILTS & QUILTING (94%); FABRICS (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); TEXTILES (73%); RELIGION (62%); 

PERSON: SILBER, JULIE; ZIMMER, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



13 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1788 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
Behind the Scenes at the Track, the Rink, the Field

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE 

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD

 BODY:
The Meadowlands sports complex, one of the world's largest entertainment centers, opened 20 years ago on a 750-acre site that once was swamp. Since then, it has drawn millions to its stadium, racetrack and arena for football, soccer, hockey, horse racing and popular entertainment. Pope John Paul II celebrated Mass there; the Grateful Dead recreated the 60's.
But nothing of such magnitude happens spontaneously. It takes a work force of ushers, waiters, ticket takers, security officers -- 3,000 in all, who work at the gates, in the stands and behind the scenes. 
 Some took their jobs as a lifeline, part time, in an uneasy economy. Others looked upon them as additional income to help support a family. A few signed up just to be sociable and have fun. Here is a visit with four of them, their reasons for being there as varied as the events that help provide their livelihood.
 
LOUIS DeANGELO
At the Window
He dreamed of being a beautician, but life didn't turn out that way. So when the shoe store closed on him and construction work faded, Louis DeAngelo went to the track.
It was 1976, and the Meadowlands was about to open with the promise of world-class entertainment and jobs for the masses. Jobless at 23, Mr. DeAngelo felt the call of a job as a cashier at the $2 window, deciding to stake his future on the horses and those who would spend their days handing him money in search of a lucky ticket.
That was 20 years and countless gamblers ago for the wiry cashier, who now works the high-end $50 window at the Meadowlands racetrack, handling perhaps $60,000 in bets on a given night.
It is a vigil, Mr. DeAngelo said, noting that he must be both quick and cautious because any shortfall in the receipts at the end of the night is his responsibility and comes out of his pocket.
He's been taken only once, he said. It was 1977, and he lost $1,000 out of the till. "Either someone in line did it or someone outside," he said, shaking his head. "I guess it was just a reach into my window, but I'll never know."
The fear of a recurrence keeps him on his toes, as do the scammers and flimflam artists who creep about daily with such schemes on their minds. Sometimes they will just say they have been given the wrong change when making a bet, although good cashiers know always to leave the money on the tray until the transaction is finished. But there are a surprising number of grifters with the time to concoct elaborate traps.
One favorite is to paste the edges of a $50 bill onto the face of a dollar, a trick that can go unnoticed when jittery bettors press long lines before a race. Other times, people have come up with a wad of bills to make a bet of several thousand dollars. But once all the bills are counted, the cashier will find a $100, some $20's and a few dollar bills sandwiching a loaf of perfectly cut paper. By the time it is counted, the cheater is usually long gone.
Others fake winning tickets by surgically carving a losing ticket so that the correct numbers can be inserted.
"You'd be surprised how much time people will spend on these things to keep betting," he said. "They try to beat you. You got to be like a boxer and roll with it. It's part of the game."
He still thinks about hair styling sometimes, but he is not complaining about working the windows, a skill he learned through one trial session with play money before the official opening. As he is quick to note, things could be worse. He is happily married, with a 5-year-old son and an 18-year-old daughter now at Montclair State University.
"I'm not going to get rich from this job, but after 20 years I can't complain because there are a lot of people out there who go out and break their backs every day," he said. "I've been able to provide for my family and pay my bills. I was brought up working-class. And like I tell my kids all the time, you can't get nothing unless you work for it. I'm proving that by example."
 
BOB JACQUES
Finding Motivation
For 15 years, Bob Jacques has been studying acting at the Meadowlands, looking into customers' faces and listening to their disputes, all to get an insight into character.
"I see people at their best and at their worst, in all situations from love to drag-out fights," he said. "You just get to see people the way they really are, and that's good when you're an actor."
But at the Meadowlands, Mr. Jacques is an usher, in maroon jacket and sensible shoes. Off duty, he pursues an acting career. He has appeared on several commercials as well as a few movies and sitcoms when not taking tickets or helping patrons to their seats. No one has recognized him yet.
His latest acting job was in a movie called "Devil's Own," he said, noting that his experiences at the Meadowlands -- particularly with unruly fans and fights on the ice during hockey games -- helped him get the part of a mobster "roughing up Brad Pitt."
Although he says he is nice with the customers, they do not always reciprocate. He recalls one night when a big fight broke out on the ice, causing blood-hungry hockey fans in the front rows to leap from their seats for a better view. When he calmly asked them to sit back, another man rows back jumped up and began cursing Mr. Jacques for blocking his view of the fight.
"He ran at me screaming," the usher said. "It was so weird that even the guys who first stood up thought it was a joke, but it wasn't. He was really mad and just kept screaming till I left.
"I guess that's the one thing I dread about the job, the fact that you sometimes get really arrogant people on you, but you have to treat them all the same," he said.
He has even heard people complain about the price of tickets bought from scalpers outside. "I mean, you're not even supposed to buy tickets from scalpers," he said. "If they paid $500 for tickets to some guy walking around outside the stadium, it's not really our problem, but you've got to keep a face on and . . . act."
He handles diverse situations, from taking care of seating problems and offering directions, to helping entertainers slip out of the complex. He even gained the nickname Snowplow after Michael Jordan used him to push through a crowd of autograph seekers after a Chicago Bulls game.
"I felt these big hands; then I could smell his cologne," Mr. Jacques said. "I turned around and saw this huge guy in an Armani suit, and he just said, 'Go.' "
One day he hopes to be on the other side.
"But you can't think about it or give yourself time limits because you'd just go nuts," he said. "And while you could teach an orangutan to do my basic job here -- section, row, seat number -- I'm not ashamed of it because it's really about interacting with people and helping them beyond that. Believe me, people here have a thousand questions every night, and they want answers."
 
SAM DePALMA
Along for the Ride
"There are ups and downs to this job," said Sam DiPalma, pasting back his graying hair before greeting some of the first guests of the night into his V.I.P. elevator at the Continental Arena, where his has controlled the buttons for most of the last nine years.
Mr. DePalma, 55, has worked at the Meadowlands for 14 seasons, first as an usher, then as an elevator man. He calls the stint a form of meditation, noting that he still teaches seventh grade math during the day. "I do this for a break," he said. "I know everybody, and everybody's like family. It's relaxation after all the stress with the kids at school."
But he also sees a lot of his former students, many of whom pop by to say hello and keep him up to date on their lives. He's there more than not, even working on his birthday this year.
"They put me up on the scoreboard for my birthday," he said. "And if I miss a day, people come in saying, 'Where's Sam?,' asking whether I'm O.K., or sick. It's nice."
Mr. DePalma took the job to make extra money while his children were growing up. A big soccer fan, he got the idea of working for the Meadowlands after taking his young sons to Giants stadium for Cosmos soccer games. "Ushering was the ticket," he said. "That way I got to watch the games while I worked."
Both his sons followed his footsteps and worked as ushers once they were old enough. Frank, 27, left this year to take a job as an accountant, but Robert, 24, still juggles several shifts a month over his day job as an industrial engineer.
"We've been coming here so long that I'm a grandpa now," Mr. DePalma said as one customer greeted him with a handshake and another let loose a soliloquy of how "Sam is the cornerstone" of the Meadowlands whose departure would "shut the place down."
 
MICHELLE BROWN
Hustle and Bustle
Eleven years ago, Michelle Brown came to the Meadowlands with a mission. She was 21 years old, 6 feet tall, in nursing school and single. She liked sports. And, more important, she liked men.
"So I took a job as a security guard," she explained with a smile before going out to walk her Thursday beat in the women's lounge at the Continental Arena. "I mean, it's a sports complex, right? There's hockey, basketball, football and racing. I figured I was bound to meet someone."
She has, of course, although that is not what has kept her coming back nightly, past her 32d birthday and well into a daytime career of handling claims and billing for an anesthesiologist. After all, most of her close contact has been with "cranky old guys smoking cigars," teen-age brawlers and other ne'er-do-wells, none of which were good marriage prospects and some of whom proved dangerous.
Four weeks into the job, her elbow was shattered when she tried to quell a fight involving four men, three of them drunk. "People thought I wouldn't have the nerve to come back, but I did," she said, adding that the bone took nearly six months to repair.
Other days, she's had to pull youngsters out of the beer line and save patrons whose shoelaces caught in one of the escalators. Ushers have been protected from the slurs of abusive drunks; people stealing toilet paper have been chased out of restrooms, and men wandering into the wrong restroom looking for women have been discouraged.
The scene might turned many women off from the job, but to Ms. Brown it's become surprisingly appealing. It's a nice change after sitting in a seat all day with medical terminology and complex financial statements filling her mind. At the Meadowlands, she's on, eyes darting across the crowds, mind keeping a vigil on the line that patrons must not to cross.
"It's the hustle and bustle," she said, eyes brightening. "It's never seeing the same people twice and being ready to handle any situation."
"Don't mess with me," she added with a stern finger. "I'm good."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michelle Brown, security guard, and Sam DePalma, elevator operator, say they like their work. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MEADOWLANDS SPORTS COMPLEX (EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; LABOR SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); HORSE RACING (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); SOCCER (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); SHOE STORES (52%); 

PERSON: ROANE, KIT R; DEANGELO, LOUIS; JACQUES, BOB; DEPALMA, SAM; BROWN, MICHELLE POPE JOHN PAUL II (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



14 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
Surviving to Recount The 'Ultimate Betrayal'

BYLINE: By Brett Pulley; Brett Pulley reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

DATELINE: JAMESBURG

 BODY:
Just listening to the tales of sexual torment and horror that Carolyn Wilson Spence and her five children have suffered is enough to make your heart ache with pain and your head fill with anger.
Her former husband, Lemon Spence, was released two weeks ago from the Adult Training and Diagnostic Center in Avenel, where because of good behavior he was required to serve only eight years of a 15-year sentence for sexually assaulting his 4-year-old daughter. Those charges, in 1986, were filed while Mr. Spence was already on probation after receiving a 25-year suspended sentence for sexual assault against another daughter, who was 9 at the time, and a 12-year-old neighbor. 
 Mrs. Spence and her children are now fighting to return Mr. Spence to prison. They say that while he was locked up, he repeatedly mailed them harassing letters and threatened their lives despite a permanent restraining order that was to keep any such contact from occurring. Just minutes after Mr. Spence was released from the Avenel sex crimes unit on Nov. 16, he was arrested again on new sexual-assault complaints filed by two of his sons, Balondemu, 22, and Jabazz, 19, who say their father also abused them when they were children. As of last week, Mr. Spence, 44, was being held in lieu of $250,000 bail, pending indictment. He could not be reached for comment, and Middlesex County officials had no record of a lawyer assigned to represent him.
"When my children found out their father was going to be released, my whole house fell apart," Mrs. Spence said in an interview. "My family has been really traumatized. This is a life sentence for my family."
The Spence family's case has prompted State Senator Peter A. Inverso, Assemblyman Paul R. Kramer, and Assemblywoman Barbara W. Wright, all Republicans, to introduce legislation that would make inmates like Mr. Spence ineligible for sentence reductions when they threaten their victims or violate restraining orders from prison.
"We're mandating language that says if certain circumstances occur, you may not give good behavior credit," said Ms. Wright, who noted that the proposed legislation is pending in committee. "We happen to believe, based on the information that we have, that this person could be very dangerous to his family. We want to make sure this doesn't happen again."
Sweethearts at Jamesburg High School, the Spences married when she was 17 and he was 18. Mrs. Spence said it was not uncommon for her husband to force her to have sex, but she said they were together 13 years before she realized that he also had sexually assaulted their children, other children in the neighborhood and even her own mother.
On one occasion, Mrs. Spence said, her husband raped her on the floor, in front of their children. Mr. Spence's children have recounted tales of repeated abuse by their father and, under duress, with one another. The couple's oldest daughter, Faizah, now 20, spent four years in a mental health clinic as a result of the abuse. The youngest daughter, Tahira, now an 18-year-old college student, has bouts with suicidal urges, her mother said. And on Tuesday night, Mrs. Spence said, she stayed up until 4 A.M. the next morning, consoling and trying to persuade her 25-year-old son that his own life was still worth living. "He's a 6 foot 4 , handsome man," she said, "but he's scared like a child." She said he blamed himself for the abuse inflicted on him by his father. "He's so guilt-ridden he doesn't want to live anymore."
To see her children in recent photos or look into Mrs. Spence's own eyes, there is little that betrays their anguished past or their current fears. A 43-year-old unemployed bus driver who has never earned more than $10,000 a year, Mrs. Spence has no money for a lawyer and is facing foreclosure on her house. "I've had no electricity, no water, no heat many times," she said. "I've raised my children below poverty level, but I've never impoverished their minds." Three of her children are in college; the other two are employed.
The "ultimate betrayal" is how Mrs. Spence and her children commonly refer to what Mr. Spence did to his family. Experts say more than 200,000 cases of child sexual abuse occur each year in the United States.
In her effort to keep her former husband behind bars, she has circulated petitions around Middlesex County, tried to persuade other possible victims of her former husband to come forward, and fired off letters to politicians, legal officials and the news media.
"I've tried everything," she said as she opened a huge black briefcase and pulled out a pile of letters -- some from politicians, others that she said were written to her family by Mr. Spence. "I want help. If anybody wants to gossip about it, I don't care. I want people to know that I've tried," she said. "This is my life. As terrible as it's been, I'm determined to make it right."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PROBATION AND PAROLE SENTENCING (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRISONS (89%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); PAROLE (77%); PROBATION (76%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); LAWYERS (72%); ARRESTS (70%); INDICTMENTS (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); BAIL (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); COUNTIES (50%); 

PERSON: SPENCE, CAROLYN WILSON; SPENCE, LEMON; PULLEY, BRETT MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



15 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Military Cuts Benefit McGuire and Fort Dix

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

 BODY:
In the Pentagon's post-cold war campaign to streamline domestic military operations, one base's loss is often another's gain. For McGuire Air Force Base in Wrightstown, a shift in the missions of Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana and Symore-Johnson Air Force Base in North Carolina has meant an influx of 32 KC-10 refueling planes and about 1,000 pilots, mechanics and other personnel, said Lieut. Steve Lygren, a spokesman for McGuire.
The restationing of the planes, which began in September 1994 under recommendations from the Federal Defense Base Closing and Realignment Commission, has brought a $133 million capital program at McGuire. Projects include new road and drainage systems, new utilities and, last week, the dedication of a new control tower and ground-breaking for new dormitories. A new flight simulator, parking ramps and hangars are also being provided for the KC-10's, which are taller than the C-141 cargo planes and KC-135 refuelers traditionally stationed at McGuire. "We could fit the wings of the aircraft and the body of the aircraft inside, but the tail had to stay outside," Lieut. Lygren said. 
 Despite all the activity, Mayor Joseph Farago said Wrightstown merchants and contractors had seen little benefit. Nearby Fort Dix, despite personnel cutbacks, has retained amenities like the commissary, Club Dix, a golf course and a bowling alley to keep military spending cash inside the military. Most of its contracts are too big for local firms, he added. "Even though we welcome the personnel and the new construction, it's not having an effect on the local economy," he said. STEVE STRUNSKY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MCGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE (NJ); MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; FORT DIX (NJ) ARMED FORCES (94%); AIR FORCES (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); FLIGHT SIMULATORS (72%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (69%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (68%); GOLF (65%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%); 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



16 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 21; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Quality Transplants Available Closer to Home

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Barbara Stewart points out in the Nov. 24 article "Hospitals Press for Expansion of Organ Transplant Units" (Nov. 24) that New Jersey residents are concerned about the "quality" of care provided by the state's existing programs. This impression is not supported by objective data. 
 On Nov. 22, Dr. Joel D. Kallich, formerly with the United States Office of the Inspector General and later with the Rand Corporation, presented the results of a 15-month study titled "Assessment of Solid Organ Transplantation Services in New Jersey." Dr. Kallich stated that there were "no statistically significant differences in the quality of transplantation services provided in New Jersey when compared with similar services provided in the neighboring states of Pennsylvania and New York."
One- and two-year actuarial survival for the last 43 patients undergoing heart transplantation at Newark Beth Israel during the past 26 months has been 87 and 82 percent, compared with 82 and 78 percent, respectively, for the nation as a whole, according to the United Network for Organ Sharing in October 1996.
It was not my intention to imply in the article that critically ill patients must go to New York for medical care. Rather, I merely observed that many patients do go to New York for high-technology services. That these individuals opt to make this trek probably reflects the fact that most New Jersey residents, and many physicians, are simply not aware of these high-quality renal and extrarenal transplantation programs in the state.
 
MARK JAY ZUCKER, M.D.
Newark
 
The writer is the director of the cardio-thoracic transplantation program at Newark Beth Israel Medical Center and an assistant professor of medicine at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%); UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (65%); UNITED NETWORK FOR ORGAN SHARING (55%); UNITED NETWORK FOR ORGAN SHARING (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NETWORK FOR ORGAN SHARING (55%); UNITED NETWORK FOR ORGAN SHARING (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TRANSPLANT SURGERY (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ORGAN DONATION (78%); STATISTICS (76%); WRITERS (73%); DENTISTRY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



17 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

MONDAY
 
The Conference Board reports on leading economic indicators for October. In September the index rose 0.1 percent.
 
The National Association of Purchasing Management releases its November index of manufacturing activity. In October it fell to 50.2.
 
The Commerce Department reports on construction spending for October. In September it rose 1.9 percent.
 
TUESDAY
 
The Commerce Department reports on new-home sales for October.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
The Labor Department reports on productivity and labor costs for the third quarter.
 
The Commerce Department reports on housing completions for October. In September they fell 5.8 percent.
 
The Senate Finance Committee releases its final evaluation of the accuracy of the Consumer Price Index. It is expected to conclude that the index greatly overstates inflation.
 
FRIDAY
 
The Labor Department reports on unemployment for November. In October it held steady at 5.2 percent.
 
The Commerce Department reports on factory orders for October. In September they rose 2.7 percent.
 
The Federal Reserve reports on consumer credit for October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOUSING COMPLETIONS (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (88%); PRODUCTIVITY (88%); NEW HOME SALES (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (87%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



18 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

THE ENVIRONMENT
Clean Air: Adding It Up
Yes, air pollution is disgusting and unhealthy, but some people say the country simply can't afford to clean it up. If the math at the Environmental Protection Agency is correct, we can't afford not to. In proposing new, stricter air-quality standards last week, the agency said that if $7 billion to $8 billion was spent scrubbing the air each year, the payoff could be 10 times that, perhaps $50 billion to $100 billion a year -- mainly because of lower medical costs. Oh, and by the way, 20,000 people might not die prematurely. Industry, occasionally accused of putting next month's profits ahead of next year's clogged lungs, vowed a fight, with one group saying the proposed rules would "have a chilling effect on economic growth." But Carol Browner, head of the E.P.A., says it's children who feel the chill. "Whom do we protect?" she asked.
 
REGULATORS
Consolation Prize for Mr. Dole
Bob Dole, from beyond the political grave, got his way after all. Mr. Dole had turned Dr. David A. Kessler, head of the Food and Drug Administration,, into a far-left, activist bogyman, and vowed that his head would roll right out of a Dole White House. It's no wonder that Dr. Kessler got top billing in Mr. Dole's road show: rarely has an official inspired such ardent fans, and such fierce enemies. By tackling the tobacco industry head on, calling smoking "a pediatric disease" and pushing to regulate tobacco as a drug, "he may be responsible for saving more lives than any other official in the last quarter century," one tobacco foe said. Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican, though, dismissed Dr. Kessler as a publicity seeker, and Senator Wendell H. Ford, Democrat of Kentucky, called Dr. Kessler's policies "punitive" against tobacco farmers. His foes got their way last week, as Dr. Kessler said he would resign anyway.
 
CHINA
At Disney, the Film's the Thing
It sometimes seems that when American corporations look at world maps, they see markets, just markets -- colored splotches to stab with the pushpins of capitalism. Brushing aside culture and history, they envision people in constant lament over their exclusion from American consumerism. Disney may well have fallen into this trap. It has vast plans for China -- movies, books, toys, a theme park, the whole mind-boggling works. With its left hand, though, it is involved in making a movie about the Dalai Lama, forgetting that the Tibetan religious leader's very existence is an affront to China's leaders. So China warned Disney that it couldn't have its cake and insult it, too -- that if the company went ahead with the movie, its other plans might be in jeopardy. Dalai Lama or Dalmatians: Pick one. Disney stuck to its guns -- and its movie.
 
ADVERTISING
Absolut Diary (Sorry)
It glides from the informative to the inspired to the inane, with countless stops in between, but advertising rarely rises above its basic task -- cajoling people to buy something. And even when it is a notch above, it rarely evokes more than a chuckle. Then there's Absolut vodka, whose ads must have put a case of copywriters out of work (the ads have all of two words, one of which is a given). But the ads also created what is essentially a new art form -- and, oh yes, lifted sales from 20,000 cases to 3.2 million in 15 years, making Absolut the nation's No. 5 liquor brand. But it's still, well, just marketing, right? Once you've recited the statistics, is there anything to add? Don't say that to Richard W. Lewis, an advertising executive who just wrote a whole book about this phenomenon. And with those copywriters still out of work, he really had no choice about the title: "Absolut Book." The Absolut end.
 
MUTUAL FUNDS
Cash? Who Needs Cash?
Here's an interesting statistic: The staggering $1.39 trillion invested in domestic stock funds is twice what it was two short years ago. In part, of course, that's because stock prices have gone crazy. But it also means that an awful lot of investors are new to this game, floating along in a soft-focus world in which stocks do nothing but rise. With the Dow industrials flitting merrily from record to record, money keeps pouring into mutual funds. And fund managers are caught up in the euphoria, racing to keep returns at mouth-watering levels by pumping that money into stocks. The latest numbers show that funds have just 6.2 percent of their assets in cash, the lowest level in two decades. But what if the market hits a bump and a number of investors decide to sit out this crapshoot for a while? Funds wouldn't have cash for redemptions, they'd have to sell stock, the market would fall, more investors would get itchy, and so on. But that won't happen. This market doesn't go down.
 
READY, SET, SHOP!
The Miracle of the Humans
Whenever those punctual swallows alight in Capistrano, the chorus rises anew: for sheer instinct, humankind can't hold a candle to the animal world. Nonsense. Can anything in nature rival the eruption of shopping passion on the day after Thanksgiving? The greatest scientific minds of our day have been unable to find a biological or genetic explanation, but there it is: otherwise sane people wake up on Blowout Friday and, like glassy-eyed automatons, swarm to the mall. Shoppers got off to a bleary-eyed start this year, often turning up at stores at unheard-of opening times like 6 A.M. After all, the all-but-official Holiday Shopping Month -- or Thunderherd Month, in Russell Baker's far more apt term -- is five days shorter this year than last. Spend, America, spend.
 
GRAPHIC ARTS
Designing Capitalism
Take a snapshot of this country and you'll see corporate logos everywhere. Capitalism's identifying flags are in constant view -- on ads, buildings, products, T-shirts, you name it. So if these symbols are woven into the national identity, their creators have to be considered as a sort of Founding Parents (no, you can't be politically correct and alliterative, too). And Paul Rand, who died last week at 82, would have to be called a giant in this pantheon. Beginning in the 1930's, he instilled a European-inspired modernism into the stodgy world of American graphic design, and later created logos for companies like I.B.M., ABC, U.P.S. and Westinghouse. And his designs clearly have staying power, for even as I.B.M. has gone through wrenching changes, that logo is entering its fifth decade.
 
FAREWELL, MR. LOPEZ
As the Auto World Turns
In 1993, the staid auto industry probably came as close as it will ever get to soap opera. A G.M. executive named Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua, hailed as the greatest thing to hit Detroit since the wheel, said he was leaving to join Volkswagen. G.M., in a panic, offered him untold riches and titles to lure him back, but on the very day that G.M. held a news conference to announce its success, Mr. Lopez disappeared -- and, with speculation swirling, turned up at VW the next day. It doesn't end there: G.M. then accused Mr. Lopez of industrial espionage, saying he stole cartons of G.M. documents, and three years of trans-Atlantic legal wrangling began. And though the G.M.-VW war goes on, one battle ended last week when Mr. Lopez resigned. And what is his priceless skill? Basically, he's the ultimate bargain hunter: he knows how to buy car parts cheaply.
 
SELF-CONFIDENCE
To I.B.M., I.B.M. Looks Good
In 1993, you could have bought a share of I.B.M. for $41. But you didn't, did you? Oh, well, there's always the lottery. But does that mean I.B.M., now selling for nearly four times that, is overpriced? I.B.M. clearly doesn't think so, for last week its board authorized the company to spend $3.5 billion to buy back its own shares -- and that's on top of $10 billion it has spent in the last two years amassing its own stock. Yesterday's corporate basket case, apparently, is raking in so much money that it can easily afford it.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "To I.B.M., I.B.M. Looks Good" shows I.B.M.'s stock price, weekly closings, Aug.-Nov. 1996. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (70%); 

STATE: XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (70%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (74%); SMOKING (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); TOBACCO FARMING (64%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CAROL BROWNER (58%); ORRIN HATCH (51%); DALAI LAMA (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



19 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Sorry, Wrong Numbers;
So Maybe It Wasn't the Economy

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
ECONOMIC statistics are thrust into the news every day, with a portentious exactitude that can send Wall Street soaring or reeling, influence Government policy, even sway elections. Did consumer prices rise one-tenth of a percent more than was expected? Was economic growth a half percentage point less than people had been hoping?
But what if the statistics are wrong? And what if they are consistently wrong in the same direction? Over time, that can produce a very distorted picture of the economy, with unfortunate effects brought about not by the economy but by our perceptions of it and with those perceptions having effects of their own. In making the economy look much worse than it really is, one seemingly small miscalculation can skew political debate, with big effects; remember "it's the economy, stupid"? 
This week a commission headed by Michael Boskin, the Stanford economist and former adviser to President Bush, will report to the Senate Finance Committee that inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, has been rising at a far slower pace than we had thought. Economists who have studied the issue now generally agree that inflation has been overstated, although some argue that the error is relatively small and may not make a significant difference.
 
 
 
Social Insecurity
 The commission was appointed last year because of serious doubts about how changes in benefits and tax brackets, which have a major effect on the deficit, are calculated. A conclusion that the Consumer Price Index has been overstated could lead to efforts to reduce the automatic increases in certain benefits, notably Social Security. That's sure to provoke a fight.
But perhaps even more important are changes that may be necessary in our view of the economy for the last two decades. For much of that time, even as America came roaring back into a preeminent position in technological leadership and the stock market zoomed, economists have been looking at statistics that showed a weak economy. And politicians have been trying to address public angst over economic decline.
"The central paradox of the American economy today is that we are apparently in an era of extremely rapid technological progress in which economic progress has slowed dramatically, and according to some measures stopped," Leonard Nakamura, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, writes in a forthcoming issue of that bank's Business Review.
Mr. Nakamura is known for his work on inflation, which he has concluded has been overstated for at least a couple of decades, with the overstatement growing worse in recent years. His estimates of the overstatement are among the largest, although he believes they are conservative given recent evidence. He puts the overstatement at about 1.25 percent annually in the mid-1970's, rising to about 2.75 percent now.
At the request of The New York Times, Mr. Nakamura mapped out his view of economic change, choosing 1975 as a baseline.
For example, the official wisdom says wages have risen more slowly than inflation. But Mr. Nakamura concludes that average hourly wages, after adjusting for inflation, are now 35 percent higher than they were in 1975, while Government figures show a 9 percent decrease. He thinks the economy has grown twice as much during that stretch as the official figures indicate, and argues that productivity is up three times as much.
 
 
 
Explaining the Nonexistent
 If Mr. Nakamura's figures are accurate, much of the economic debate of the last couple of decades has been misguided, with economists and others trying to explain a decrease in productivity growth and a slowdown of economic growth that either did not exist or was much milder than the official statistics indicated.
And if the estimates are right, that doesn't alter the fact that the economy has produced quite real anxiety -- that if things are so good how come so many people feel so swamped with bills they can't afford to pay?
The very technological leadership and improvement that Mr. Nakamura hails as so important in boosting real productivity and holding down inflation have hurt some industries, and their workers, while creating whole new ones. For many Americans, it has been a period of economic pain, as more have gone to work for longer hours just to maintain their living standards. But statistics on the broad economy are supposed to capture averages, and it may be that those in pain were not typical.
It's likely that the Boskin panel will come up with numbers indicating that inflation was not as severely overstated -- and economic growth not as robust -- as Mr. Nakamura says it was. But it seems clear that the economic stagnation portrayed in years of statistics has reflected flaws in the numbers, at least to some extent, rather than in the economy.
Why do inflation numbers matter so much? In large part, it is because the Government, like anyone else, can only directly measure nominal numbers. You know how much money you made last year, and how much you are making this year. But to know what an increase really means, you have to adjust for inflation. If the rate of inflation is overstated, your real gain will be understated.
A percentage point or two doesn't sound like much, but over time the effect can be dramatic. It is all the more dramatic if, as Mr. Nakamura contends but some doubt, the overstatements have been getting worse.
Consider the reported decline in real wages. It has led to a debate with some pointing to free trade as a destroyer of high-paid American jobs and others pointing to excessive Government regulation. But Mr. Nakamura contends that real hourly wages rose by an average of 1.45 percent a year during the 21-year period. That is not as rapid a gain as the 1.6 percent of the previous decade, but there would have been less hand-wringing had the Government reported increases.
The reasons for the inflation overstatements vary, economists say. One is that the service economy has become a bigger part of the whole, and gains in productivity are a lot harder to measure there. And Mr. Nakamura says that in many industries, the Government has had a devil of a time figuring out increases in quality. The rise in car prices, for example, does not take into account all the improvements in vehicle life and gas mileage, he says.
Then there is the trend economists call "price discrimination." Cigarettes provide an example: prices have risen, but not as rapidly as the Government figures indicate. Some years ago, tobacco companies introduced discount brands, at about two-thirds the price of regular brands. The Government classified these as a new product, Mr. Nakamura says, which had no immediate impact on the inflation rate. Then, over time, as those brands drew loyal customers, the price advantage was whittled away, to about 10 percent.
In the Consumer Price Index, the result was that those brands rose faster than premium brands, and so the overall inflation rate exceeded the increase in the premium brands' price. Had the companies never introduced discount brands, and then raised premium brands by the amounts they actually did, the reported inflation rate would have been lower. Yet smokers are paying less than they would have under that scenario, Mr. Nakamura adds, so the calculation makes no sense.
Mr. Nakamura's figures do help explain one remarkable trend: the bull market in stocks. The Standard & Poor's index of 600 stocks is now more than eight times as high as it was at the end of 1975. It is hard to believe that such a sustained increase could occur if the economic news over that stretch was really as glum as the official figures indicate.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Altered States"
Leonard Nakamura, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, argues that Government data have been overestimating inflation. Shown below are charts comparing Mr. Nakamura's estimates with official Government data. All figures are indexed to equal 100 in 1975. The figures for Gross Domestic Product, hourly earnings and productivity are adjusted for inflation. Data are based on annual averages, except for 1996, which are based on midyear statistics.
 
Inflation
Mr. Nakamura says the Consumer Price Index would have doubled, not tripled.
 
Gross Domestic Product
The nation's output of goods and services would have grown twice as much as the Government reported.
 
Hourly Earnings
Hourly workers would be making 35 percent more, not 9 percent less.
 
Productivity
And nonfarm productivity would be triple what the government reported. (Source: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; BOSKIN, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



20 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Prospects for Change, Not Hope

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia

 BODY:
IN the five years since Yugoslavia entered its spiral of ethnic barbarism, outside diplomats have often laid much of the blame at the feet of two ambitious men: Presidents Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia and Franjo Tudjman of Croatia. Each built his own political fortune on a base of nationalist passions that he stirred up among his countrymen when Communism collapsed.
Now, suddenly, it seems as if both could be quickly forced out of power -- Mr. Milosevic by widespread street protests and Mr. Tudjman by cancer. So the question naturally arises: Would that help in the quest for a Balkan peace? 
 The answer is: Perhaps, but probably not.
The people who surround the two Presidents are indeed preparing for their departure. But it is far from certain that the virulent nationalism, repression and rampant corruption that have come to characterize their rule in Croatia and the rump Yugoslavia (which comprises Serbia and Montenegro) will be lessened.
One reason is that behind the two men stand groups of hard-line nationalists who do not flinch at the use of force, have little tolerance for parliamentary niceties or a free press and will not be eager to share power, given the privileges and wealth they have amassed.
 
 
 
Linchpins
 Another reason is that opposition to these two leaders doesn't always mean opposition to nationalism. In fact, some of Mr. Milosevic's harshest critics are men who say he hasn't been nationalistic enough.
And whatever their roles in stirring up the hatreds that fueled so much bloodshed, both Mr. Tudjman and Mr. Milosevic eventually yielded to Western pressure and became linchpins for the American-sponsored accords on which Bosnia's fragile peace is based. Their successors' commitment would be less certain.
Both Yugoslavia and Croatia seem enmeshed these days in racist rhetoric, growing authoritarianism and economic free fall.
If one of the two lands can dig itself out, it would seem to be Croatia, whose President is reported seriously ill with stomach cancer. The country has a vital tourism industry that brings in $3 billion a year, and its opposition, while divided and lethargic, has been less vehemently nationalist than the opposition in Serbia. Even so, the hard-liners in Mr. Tudjman's own party, the Croatian Democratic Union, still wield most of the power and have mounted a drive to shut down the capital's last independent radio station. If they prevail, as many in Zagreb fear, Croatia will look even less tolerant than it does now, which is saying a lot. The huge state-run industries, which were largely handed over to party officials as gifts, will insure that economic mismanagement keeps Croatia out of the European market.
The future of Serbia is even more problematic.
The four-party opposition coalition, which is now drawing 100,000 people a day into the streets of Belgrade to protest President Milosevic's blatant theft of the recent elections, is led by two men who have often outdone even Mr. Milosevic's nationalist line. More tolerant people are in the coalition too, but this seems just a marriage of convenience for the moment.
The darling of the Serbian opposition is the telegenic Zoran Djindjic, who, during Bosnia's recent elections, campaigned for the party that led Bosnia's Serbs to war and pursued the war even after Mr. Milosevic tired of it.
By comparison, even Mr. Milosevic, who was vital in ramming through the Dayton peace agreement, looks good to many Western diplomats.
The second major opposition leader, Vuk Draskovic, is an enthusiastic supporter of the royalist Chetnik movement that fought Tito's partisans (sometimes even cooperating with their common German enemies to do so) during World War II.
Recently, when invited to meet with American diplomats, he berated them because America had secretly, rather than publicly, awarded a posthumous medal to the top wartime Chetnik leader, who had been executed by the Communists. The diplomats listened to the complaint, recounting an event that happened nearly 50 years ago, with their mouths agape.
 
 
 
Who Needs Nice Guys?
 "Whatever Milosevic was in the past he is now saying and doing all the right things," said a senior Western diplomat. "He says he supports a multi-ethnic society, he has recognized Bosnia and Croatia and he has cut off the Bosnian Serbs, forcing them to turn toward Sarajevo rather than Belgrade. Of course he is not a nice man, but at least he has shown us that we can work with him."
The Serbian economy has already gone belly up. Workers in the huge state-run factories are usually out on leave or work three hours a day. Wages have fallen from $800 a month to $40. The state car company, once Yugoslavia's pride, now makes only a few thousand cars a year.
Belgrade has not made any effort at economic reform. And this, more than the chaotic political situation, worries many foreign diplomats.
"No one here is trying to build a functioning economy," said a European ambassador, "and this means that Yugoslavia will end up like some North African state, limping along, always plagued by unrest and unable to attract foreign investment. Such a situation will only breed more demagogues who will be tempted to stir up more trouble."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters deride Slobodan Milosevic. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CROATIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; MONTENEGRO; CROATIA; CROATIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHICS (73%); CORRUPTION (70%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (70%); CANCER (70%); RIOTS (69%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (66%); TOURISM (50%); RACE & RACISM (50%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); TUDJMAN, FRANJO (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



21 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Needier Than Ever

 BODY:
The children, the sick, the elderly and the poor, who make up the most defenseless elements of New York City's population, have suffered brutal blows from cutbacks in government services in recent years. Though the city's economy has picked up a bit, the financing of programs for people in distress has not been restored to its old levels. The signs of trouble are as visible as the homeless in the streets, the abandoned buildings and the abused children in the headlines. Public-minded citizens find themselves wanting to help but wondering whether it is possible to make a difference in the lives of others.
It is possible. The New York Times today opens the Neediest Cases Fund appeal for 1996-97, which has been held annually since 1912. The drive is focused entirely on raising money for programs that help people cope with crushing burdens brought about by poverty, disease and abuse in the home. No money is kept back for administrative purposes. It goes to seven private agencies that are on the front lines every day in poor communities, helping the elderly get proper health care, helping families hold themselves together, insuring that children are protected from abuse. They feed the homeless and shelter those in danger of eviction. 
 In the last year, Elisa Izquierdo and Nadine Lockwood, young victims of abuse and neglect, once again exposed shocking inadequacies in government's child-welfare system. How can New Yorkers help? The Children's Aid Society is one of the beneficiaries of the Neediest Cases campaign and works with children in dozens of centers throughout the city, trying to locate crises before they spin out of control. The society runs after-school, counseling and family mediation programs, coming into contact with perhaps 100,000 children a year, many of them at risk in their homes.
The need for private generosity is greater than ever. Not only have government programs been cut back, but further reductions lie ahead because of the recent overhaul of the welfare system. Families of legal immigrants will no longer qualify for certain Federal programs, including food stamps. Adults who have been thrown out of work and are having a tough time finding new work may not be able to count on the emergency assistance they once could seek at welfare centers.
To help fill the current gap, the Community Service Society of New York, another beneficiary of the fund, runs soup kitchens and provides emergency help to people who need food, clothing or shelter, and it helps with cash grants to prevent evictions. Its corps of 10,000 volunteers, men and women who have reached retirement age, hand out food, educate the elderly on how to get health care and spend time brightening the lives of children with AIDS at hospitals.
In the weeks ahead, readers of The Times will be learning about these and other activities in the news pages and on this page. We hope they are inspired to think about the difference they can make. Contributions are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Checks should be made payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and mailed to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CHILD ABUSE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); EVICTION (89%); FAMILY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); HOMELESSNESS (76%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); HOSPITALS (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); AIDS & HIV (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



22 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: Navigating Minefields Of Education

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
The last two weeks have seen extraordinary activity on a string of issues critical to the New York City public schools.
There was a proposal to overhaul special education. There was the release of the most comprehensive information to date about how each school spends its money. And there were pivotal decisions on the question of how much control the Chancellor should have over the system's 32 local school districts. 
 Such high-profile pronouncements would typically have embroiled previous chancellors in controversies that would have ultimately undermined their effectiveness or obscured their accomplishments. But with his affable, down-to-earth style, Chancellor Rudy Crew has managed so far to navigate a series of education minefields without angering many officials, teachers or parents.
"The Chancellor has been able to walk the fine line on the various constituency groups that make up the New York educational system without offending any one group," said Dennis M. Walcott, president of the New York Urban League and a former member of the central Board of Education. "It's allowed him to continue his honeymoon a lot longer than previous Chancellors have in the past. He can be breaking bread with all these different people without the sword hanging over his head making him think that at any moment the honeymoon will be over."
This accomplishment seems noticeable, many say, because in a little over a year in office, Dr. Crew had struck most experts as a Chancellor who had taken few stabs at making bold improvements to the school system.
"The reviews of the Chancellor's first year were constrained in their support because there were not concrete results," said Robert Berne, a public and education policy analyst and the vice president of academic development at New York University. Speaking of himself and other experts, he added, "The things we called for were special ed, the budget, governance. I would argue it was worth the wait."
Although education officials, experts and union leaders have received the new goals set by Dr. Crew favorably, they caution that the results of his plans are still very much in question. So far, Dr. Crew has revealed only the broad strokes of his proposals on each issue -- special education, school-based budgets, and governance, or who controls the schools -- but has not outlined crucial details. Some say the absence of specifics, like how money would be reallocated, how curriculum and teachers' roles would change and what steps he would take to improve the schools, has allowed Dr. Crew to confront substantive problems but not create conflict.
In addition, many politicians and educators note that Dr. Crew has benefited tremendously from the political environment in which he is serving as Chancellor. Unlike his recent predecessors, this Chancellor is serving during a mayoral election year. His initiatives are considered a key part of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's campaign strategy as the Mayor seeks to refurbish his image from what some considered to be that of an obstructer of school reform.
Dr. Crew and the Mayor also seem to enjoy a good personal rapport, perhaps forged when Mr. Giuliani pushed for Dr. Crew's appointment. For all of these reasons, the Mayor has not lobbed criticism or tried to thwart the Chancellor's plans as he did with Dr. Crew's immediate predecessor, Ramon C. Cortines.
Indeed, late last month the Mayor even handed Dr. Crew a victory by backing away from his long-held position that the Mayor should control the schools and agreeing to press the State Legislature to give the Chancellor greater authority over community school districts.
Around the same time, the Mayor opened the city's coffers and allocated $70 million for new textbooks.
"I think the Chancellor deserves a lot of the credit," Mr. Berne said. "But he couldn't have done it without the Mayor."
Dr. Crew also became Chancellor at a time when the economic pressure to reform school spending in general, and to curb the spiraling costs of special education in particular, had never been greater, forcing him to give these issues top priority.
Many also say that Dr. Crew's style makes a difference. He is easy-going and soft-spoken. He gives the impression of confronting complicated issues in a straightforward fashion, yet his reports have so far revealed little of the kind of detail that might rile factions in the schools.
He has urged his staff to be efficient, completing the budget reports and special education proposals that had been talked about, but not completed, by previous chancellors. But, studying the pitfalls of his predecessors, he has for the most part stayed away from public appeals on emotionally charged social issues like demonstrating condom use in the classroom or teaching about homosexuality.
And he picks no-lose stances when he goes public. He released budget reports that said more than before, but still not enough to be ripped apart by teachers, parents, groups or politicians. And he stood up to a Justice Department ruling that blocked his suspension and replacement of the elected board members of District 12 in the South Bronx, directing school security guards to keep the ousted board members from getting back into the district offices.
"I think that he intentionally went over the edge with the district in the Bronx," Mr. Berne said. "He won either way. He'd either get control over the board or show that he didn't have control and should."
Dr. Crew even spun a positive note after the State Education Commissioner threatened late last month to close 42 failing city schools unless the Chancellor took direct control of them and made them better. While the Commissioner, Richard P. Mills, appeared to be criticizing the management of all of those schools, Dr. Crew indicated that he would seize the opportunity to exercise greater muscle over poorly performing principals and superintendents.
At the end of his first year in office in September, Dr. Crew talked about his lack of significant accomplishments to date and said he needed to take his time, "to do things in a strategic way."
But his persona is hardly Machiavellian. It is warm and approachable, laced with affectionate nudges and soft words. In public and in official meetings, Dr. Crew readily unfolds the details of his own life, especially the inspiration of his late father, a security guard for I.B.M., whose badge and company identification card Dr. Crew has framed in his office. Dr. Crew, whose mother died when he was 2, was raised by his father.
The Chancellor talks in public about his lack of sophistication as a young man: he showed up for his first business school class in a T-shirt that said "I Love New York," and a Yankees cap, and was admonished by a dean.
"He makes powerful people comfortable," said Chiara Coletti, a spokeswoman for the Chancellor. "He's not without ego but he's a very careful people watcher."
Because of this and because of the upcoming mayoral election, Dr. Crew has been largely undistracted by political salvos from the Mayor, the Governor, state legislators and the State Education Commissioner.
Stephen K. Allinger, who lobbies for the Board of Education in Albany and has worked for previous chancellors, said Dr. Crew is also able to direct his staff to get things done.
"I think what has surprised us is that these things had deadlines imposed on them," said Mr. Allinger, referring to the budget reports and the special education proposal. "The Chancellor has a fuse about late nesses. He feels time lines pressure people to be creative."
Dr. Crew also gives the impression of confronting an issue head-on, without shrinking away from the intricacies. Sandra Feldman, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, pointed to Dr. Crew's news briefing on his special education plan last week.
"The Chancellor was being so out front and honest about the investment that is required and being clear that this a prevention and intervention program, not a cost-cutting program," she said. "He's been there. He's been in the classroom, been a principal, been a teacher. He understands the needs of the various constituencies."
On the other hand, the Chancellor, citing the need for pilot programs, spelled out little in his special education plan that would indicate the nuts and bolts of how it will work. It does not spell out whose jobs would be affected, how much money would be spent on what, or how children would be guaranteed the services they need. And he spelled out that significant parts would hinge on changes in state law, meaning they were beyond his immediate control.
"There are still many gray areas," Mr. Walcott said. "Now he needs to tackle a variety of special interest groups."
Whether the last few weeks have allowed Dr. Crew to mold a solid enough base to effect change remains to be seen, Mr. Walcott added.
"He has built up a ton of goodwill out there with issues that have been very deep in the Board of Ed for years and years," he said. "Now that he's given us this information, he has to translate it into real reform."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SPECIAL EDUCATION (HANDICAPPED); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND COMMUNITY ROLE EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); POLITICS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (61%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM; CREW, RUDOLPH F (CHANCELLOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



23 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
In Watershed Year for Social Services, Need for Giving Grows

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
After Miguel Detres lost his job as a garment cutter, he and his daughter, Elsie, nearly lost their apartment in East Harlem. The rent went unpaid as they searched for work. They applied for government rent loans but were denied them.
A $780 emergency grant from the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies saved them from joining the thousands of New Yorkers who sleep in homeless shelters on any given night, and gave them time to balance their lives. 
 The federation, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, earmarked $115,000 for emergency assistance last year, and 154 families received grants.
But the money ran out before the year did, said Judith Milone, who screens requests for the funds. Since early November, Ms. Milone has had to tell those calling for help that, for now, there is no longer help to be had.
"I have taken 122 calls in November," she said. "One woman told me her electricity was shut off because she owes $139. I had one request for beds -- usually the requests are for rent -- and one request a couple of weeks ago for funeral money."
Today, as Ms. Milone and other representatives of social service agencies in New York City say that pleas for help far outstrip their resources, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund begins its 85th annual appeal.
In New York City, where there is more of everything than just about anywhere else, there is also more need. About a million people are on welfare, nearly 400,000 live on Social Security disability payments and more than 1.3 million receive food stamps; 1.5 million New Yorkers rely on Medicaid, and 5,500 families live in homeless shelters.
Nearly a fifth of all New York City residents live below the Federal poverty line, according to census data.
That puts New York square in the middle of the country's largest cities: poorer than Los Angeles and Dallas, better off than Detroit and Chicago, but with a higher cost of living.
"What is most interesting is the disparity we are seeing," said Philip Coltoff, the executive director of the Children's Aid Society, another agency supported by the fund.
"The fact that the city is doing better and the city is getting more revenues and that Wall Street is doing very well," Mr. Coltoff said, "you would hardly know that if you walked the streets of Harlem, East Harlem or the South Bronx. You see great numbers of idle young people, great numbers of people out of work."
The Neediest Cases appeal also begins at a time when the ground is shifting under the feet of social service providers. With changes in the welfare laws set to take effect in coming months, agencies are re-evaluating how the poor will be cared for and who will do the caring.
"I think this is going to be a watershed year for the city of New York in many respects," said David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society of New York, another agency supported by the fund.
"New York is going to be the test bed for a lot of things. Most organizations are reassessing their direct service effort."
While there is disagreement over what impact changes in the welfare laws will have on the city and its poor, officials say they are particularly worried about immigrants, who will no longer be eligible for many government support services.
"Just over two million New Yorkers are first generation," said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who opposed the welfare reform bill. "You have to go back to 1930 to reach as high a proportion as we have now. In any normal population, some portion of that group will get sick, will lose their job, will lose things."
It was through helping an immigrant that Adolph S. Ochs, the former printer's apprentice who bought this newspaper 100 years ago, came to start The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. While strolling the city's streets on Christmas Day in 1911, Mr. Ochs came face to face with a pauper, an immigrant from Europe who had just finished dinner at the Y.M.C.A. and who asked Mr. Ochs for money for a place to sleep.
Mr. Ochs gave the man a few dollars and offered him a job. And the encounter gave Mr. Ochs an idea: If New Yorkers only knew about how some of their neighbors lived, they would be willing, even anxious, to help. The next year he assigned a reporter to delve into the files of social service agencies and write about New York's 100 neediest cases.
On Dec. 15, 1912, the headline across the top of the magazine section implored: "Santa Claus, Please Take Notice! Here are New York's 100 Neediest Cases."
The first Neediest Cases campaign lasted nine days, and 117 contributors gave $3,630.88. Last year, 12,927 readers gave $4,815,609.76, the second-highest total in history. The record was set in the 1991-92 campaign, when more than 15,000 contributors gave $5,083,520.81.
While last year's effort did not break that mark, it ended a three-year slump in the number of donors.
The New York Times Company Foundation pays the fund's expenses, so all donations go to services provided by the seven agencies. The foundation requires that the money directly help those who need it, and twice a year, the agencies provide reports showing how they have complied.
For example, donations to the Neediest Cases Fund can buy clothing and food when there is none, provide rent money in an emergency, pay a social worker to do counseling or cover medical bills. The agencies perform other functions, such as policy research and legislative lobbying, but Neediest Cases money does not pay for that.
Instead it supports the agencies in offering a hand to New Yorkers who need one, whether they are young or old, sick or homeless, unemployed or just unlucky and unable to help themselves. It buys food and clothes for children like Kenya Eubanks, a 14-year-old from the Bronx who has lived in a homeless shelter, lost both her parents and her grandmother and now lives with her 21-year-old sister, Viola, barely a grown-up herself.
It helps the Children's Aid Society send a special medical van to Head Start programs in Manhattan, where children climb aboard for check-ups with a doctor and dentist. It helps the UJA-Federation provide counseling and job training to struggling adults.
And it cares for people like Max Epstein, 64, a painter who recently had an opening at the Gallery Stendhal in SoHo. "I had been a well-established artist until I was hit by a car in 1986, leaving me disabled and financially needy," Mr. Epstein wrote in a letter to The New York Times Company Foundation. "Your readers responded to my plight by donating around $5,000 of art supplies enabling me to resume painting."
Mr. Epstein included an invitation to his gallery opening. "Thank you," he wrote in closing. "I am very grateful to The Times on behalf of needy New Yorkers."
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
130 East 59th Street, Room 427, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE TOTALS: A Decade of Giving" lists donations to the Neediest Cases Fund & Donors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES ELECTRONIC MEDIA CO (83%); NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (83%); NEW YORK TIMES CORP (83%); NEW YORK TIMES BROADCASTING SERVICE INC (83%); NEW YORK TIMES SALES INC (83%); NEW YORK TIMES DISTRIBUTION CORP (83%); NEW YORK TIMES SYNDICATION SALES CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND FAMILY (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); HOMELESSNESS (76%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (76%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); COST OF LIVING (73%); MEDICAID (72%); CITY LIFE (70%); CHILD WELFARE (66%); CITIES (65%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



24 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: New Price Index Expected to Be Pushed to Reflect Buying

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30

 BODY:
A panel appointed by Congress is expected to recommend next week that the Government create a new price gauge that would more accurately reflect inflation -- a move that would result in less generous increases in Social Security payments and other benefits, which would also help lower the deficit, officials said.
One high-ranking official with knowledge of the panel's report said on Friday that the proposed new index would better reflect what consumers actually buy each year. It would largely, perhaps entirely, supplant the Consumer Price Index as the gauge used to calculate cost-of-living increases and adjust segments of the tax system, like the personal exemption and individual tax brackets, to take into account the effects of higher prices, the official said. 
 It was still unclear, however, whether the new price gauge would be calculated monthly, like the current price index, or whether the current index would still be used in conjunction with it. Michael J. Boskin, a economics professor at Stanford who heads the five-member commission, appointed by the Senate Finance Committee, would say only that the final report would include updated estimates of how much the price index overstated inflation and would offer recommendations for overcoming the problem.
The new index, like the price index, would be based on prices for a market basket of goods purchased by consumers. But the contents of that market basket could be adjusted as frequently as once a year to reflect changes in consumer behavior, like the embrace of newly available products or a switch to substitutes when something gets too expensive.
The commission's report, scheduled to be released on Wednesday, comes as momentum is building for some politically defensible way to cut the Federal budget deficit further and to solve the longer-term problem of financing Social Security when the baby boom generation starts to retire in about 15 years.
The concept has bipartisan support, although neither Democrats nor Republicans are eager to take the lead on making the change, given the political sensitivity of tinkering with Federal benefits. The commission's recommendation would need to be translated into legislation before it could be put into effect. The issue is almost certain to come before Congress next year.
Most economists, including the five-member Boskin panel, say they believe that the price index substantially overstates inflation, which leads to the Government's paying billions of dollars more than necessary each year to beneficiaries of Federal programs to keep them even with inflation.
In an interim report in September 1995, largely confirmed by its subsequent work, the Boskin group estimated the overstatement at 1.5 percentage points in recent years, somewhat more than half the rise calculated by the price index on which benefits have been based.
Many experts say the price index fails to reflect adequately the improvements in the quality of goods and services people buy as well as the types of stores they use. Most important, the critics say, the price index was devised to capture the price of a fixed basket of items and does not reflect the fact that consumers frequently change their buying patterns in response to rising or tumbling prices. Therefore, it is not a true measure of the cost of living for consumers, they say, and it should not be the gauge used to make inflation adjustments.
For example, if the price of hard-cover books rises too high, more people turn to paperbacks or use the library. The price index would register an increase in this case, while a consumer would have spent less while receiving roughly equal satisfaction.
Various members of Congress are thought likely to seize on the commission's findings to press for adoption of a new gauge. Among them are Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, the ranking Democratic member of the Senate Finance Committee, who was instrumental in creating the advisory panel.
Others on the record as favoring the idea include Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island and Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, both influential Republicans, and Representatives Charles W. Stenholm of Texas and John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, both Democrats. Another powerful advocate of finding a better gauge is Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve and the former chief economic adviser to President Gerald R. Ford. Dr. Boskin was chief economic adviser to President George Bush.
At a Congressional hearing last year, Mr. Greenspan said of the consumer price index that "we do not take the C.P.I. literally" in making monetary policy.
The Clinton Administration is thought to be inclined to support the adoption of a better adjustment gauge but is unwilling to do so publicly without the backing of a wider group of economists and other financial experts and members of both political parties.
In an interview on Friday, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin responded cautiously when he was asked about using a new gauge to help balance the budget by reducing benefits to millions of citizens. "Whatever happens with respect to the C.P.I.," Mr. Rubin said, "really depends on what technical and scientific people broadly agree to in this area."
A spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget, Larry Haas, said this week that the Boskin group's findings would be "an important statement but not the end of the process," and he ruled out the idea of incorporating any recommendations in the 1998 budget the Administration is developing. "The timing just doesn't seem to work," Mr. Haas said.
About 30 percent of total Federal spending is indexed to changes in consumer prices, most of it involving Social Security payments and military pensions.
The new inflation gauge being urged by the commission would, in effect, transform an index of pure prices into an index that reflected the reality of a world in which technology brings a proliferation of new and improved products and consumers, for price and other reasons, constantly shift their buying patterns.
To capture such changes, the commission is believed to be recommending that the contents of the consumer market basket be updated every year instead of roughly every decade, as at present. The next such adjustment for the Consumer Price Index is set for 1998.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which has long struggled to counter the widespread assumption that a price index is the same as a cost-of-living index, is well along in developing a mechanism for taking into account product substitutions by consumers. After a delay due to last winter's Government shutdown, the bureau now expects to introduce this within the first three months of 1997.
Although Katharine G. Abraham, the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, is said to fear that pressure resulting from the Boskin commission will cause the hasty, wholesale adoption of such a fix, she declined to comment on the panel's report.
No matter how sophisticated the analysis, specialists say, no system is ever likely to mirror living costs perfectly. "The state of the art in the area of price index construction," Ms. Abraham said at last year's Congressional hearing, "has not advanced to the point where anyone knows how to construct true cost of living measures."
Indeed, there is a substantial minority of economists and price specialists who deny that the price index overstates inflation at all, or who say that if it does so in general, that it tends to underestimate the price index for specific groups, like the elderly. None, however, seem to be among the 19 members of the Federal Reserve's open market committee, which largely determines short-term interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SOCIAL SECURITY (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; COST OF LIVING PRICE CHANGES (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



25 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Use of D.H. Is Still a Wedge Dividing the Leagues

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Representatives of the owners and the players have not signed their new agreement; they have not even drafted it in formal contract language, and the players' executive board will not ratify it until this week at its meetings in Puerto Rico. That means there is still time to make a change.
Forget luxury taxes and revenue sharing. It is the agreement on the use of the designated hitter in interleague play that has to be addressed before it is too late. It is bad enough that Major League Baseball pollutes its premier event, the World Series, by playing it under two sets of rules. That is a maximum of seven games, the most important seven games of the season but still only seven games. 
 Now the owners and players want to play 214 games under two sets of rules: designated hitter in American League parks, pitchers hitting in National League parks.
Those would be the interleague games scheduled for the 1997 season, baseball's grand experiment in drastic change in the tradition of night World Series games, the designated hitter itself, division play and wild-card teams in the playoffs. But while teams from the American and National leagues will be on the same field for the first time during the regular season, they will not be on a level playing field.
Imagine the National Basketball Association playing a game at Orlando with the three-second lane violation but playing at Denver with a man planted in the lane under the basket?
Or the National Hockey League sticking to its offside rule at Ottawa, but allowing a pair of offensive skaters to stand next to the goalie at Edmonton?
It would never happen. But it not only happens in baseball, the dual-rule practice is about to multiply.
The interleague segment of the schedule will begin June 12 when the four N.L. West teams visit the four A.L. West teams for two-game series. The historic first game, the one that is scheduled to begin earliest that night, will have San Francisco at Texas. The other games will have Colorado at Seattle, Los Angeles at Oakland and San Diego at California. All of these games will use the designated hitter.
The next afternoon the Milwaukee Brewers will play the Cubs in Chicago in the first game of a three-game series, leaving their d.h. at home. That night, the other teams will have their first interleague experience in the openers of three-game series.
The Yankees will play the Marlins in Florida, and the Mets will play the Boston Red Sox in New York in their first meaningful game since the seventh game of the 1986 World Series. No d.h. will be seen in those games, nor in the others: Baltimore at Atlanta, Toronto at Philadelphia, Detroit at Montreal, Kansas City at Pittsburgh, the Chicago White Sox at Cincinnati, Cleveland at St. Louis, Minnesota at Houston.
The missing man will return for the first intriguing geographical matchups. In three-game series June 16, 17 and 18, the Mets will play the Yankees at Yankee Stadium, the Cubs will play the White Sox at Comiskey Park and the Reds will meet the Indians in Cleveland.
But in the games in N.L. parks, pitchers will hit, even American League pitchers who may never have batted in a professional game, major or minor league. Not only will it put A.L. teams at a disadvantage, but it will also put A.L. pitchers in jeopardy, facing 96 mile-an-hour fastballs that may get away from the N.L. pitchers throwing them.
The dual-rule policy will be in effect because the owners proposed it and refused to do it any other way, and the players union, seeing the economic possibilities of interleague play, did not want to kill the idea for 1997. But the two sides will have to negotiate interleague play for future seasons, and the union may not be so accommodating.
The d.h. retains a split personality because National League clubs refuse to accept it as part of their supposedly better game. Some American League clubs would be willing to give up the d.h. because it has become a costly position. It is manned primarily by good veteran hitters who have high salaries. For the same reason, the union does not want to jettison the position.
Economics aside, it is time for N.L. clubs to shed their argument that the d.h. detracts from the game. Many people thought wild-card teams and interleague play would detract from it, too, but they are here. The tradition-of-the-game argument did not hold back those innovations; the N.L. no longer can use it to block the d.h. and perpetuate baseball's dual rule.
 
 
 
Why Pitchers Bat Ninth
 By stubbornly resisting the designated hitter, this is how the National League gives its fans a better game:
*By Bob Tewksbury of San Diego getting two hits and striking out 27 times in 65 times at bat, finishing with a .031 batting average, the lowest among pitchers who had 30 or more at-bats.
*By Roger Salkeld of Cincinnati finishing half a point higher with 1 hit in 32 at-bats, striking out 21 times. By Jason Schmidt, who split his batting feats between Atlanta and Pittsburgh, going 1 for 31 (.032) with 15 strikeouts.
*By Mark Clark of the Mets hitting .043 (3-69); Mike Morgan of St. Louis and Cincinnati .050 (2-40); Pete Wilson of the Mets .080 (4-50); Frank Castillo of Chicago (5-57), Pedro Astacio of Los Angeles (6-68) and Osvaldo Fernandez of San Francisco (5-57) .088; Tom Candiotti of Los Angeles .089 (4-45); Jeff Fassero of Montreal .094 (6-64), and Pete Harnisch of the Mets .091 (5-55).
*By Al Leiter of Florida striking out 45 times in 70 at-bats and combining with his brother, Mark, who played for San Francisco and Montreal, for a .109 average with 15 hits and 80 strikeouts in 137 at-bats. By St. Louis's Andy Benes striking out 37 times in 73 at-bats and preventing the Leiter brothers from a 1-2 finish.
 
 
 
A Vote That Is Never Simple
 When the owners held their first vote on the labor agreement their chief negotiator negotiated, they used a secret ballot and rejected the deal, 18-12. Last week when they voted again, they did it openly and approved the deal, 26-4.
The motion to have an open ballot carried by 23-7. That was a three-fourths majority, but, unlike the vote on the agreement itself, passage needed only a simple majority. By the time they reached the end of their ordeal, many owners regretted ever establishing a three-fourths majority for ratification of a new agreement.
 
 
 
Belle's Virtual Reality
 In preparation for the selling of Albert Belle, his agent, Arn Tellem, compiled a loose-leaf book of facts about Belle's hitting escapades. Tellem asked Stats Inc. to project the number of home runs Belle would have hit in 1995 and 1996 for nine other teams whose parks are considered more favorable to right-handed hitters than Cleveland's Jacobs Field.
Playing for one team, the same one, each season, the statistical firm projected, Belle would have broken Roger Maris's home run record of 61, hitting 85 in 1995 and 68 in 1996. But the projection evidently did not consider the Rockie road factor.
Playing for Colorado, Belle might have hit more home runs at Coors Field than he did at Jacobs Field, but what would he have done on the road? This past season Belle hit 26 of his 48 home runs in other parks. The Rockies' home run hitters, though, do not hit more home runs on the road than they do at Coors Field; in fact, they hit half as many.
The team's top four hit 66 percent of their home runs at home. The Rockies, as a team, hit 67 percent of their home runs at home. At that consistent rate, even if Belle had played for Colorado, he would have hit 40 home runs at Coors but only 20 on the road, for a total of 60, one short of Maris's record.

GRAPHIC: Photo: American League pitchers will see a lot of the Braves' Fred McGriff next season, and they will not have to get to the World Series to do it. Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (77%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (77%); ALBERTA, CANADA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MILWAUKEE BREWERS BASEBALL CLUB (52%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (77%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (77%); ALBERTA, CANADA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); BASKETBALL (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



26 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 52; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2076 words

HEADLINE: In Prosecutor's Rise and Fall, a Story of Ambition, Deceit and Shame

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

DATELINE: LAUGHLIN, Nev., Nov. 27

 BODY:
When Nicholas L. Bissell Jr. put a gun in his mouth and pulled the trigger in a $20 room on a neon strip here, it was almost the cliche ending to an ambitious man's rise and fall.
An unexceptional child of New Jersey's modest suburbs, he rose to become a feared prosecutor in Somerset County known for his swaggering assault on drug dealers. Loyal followers said he had a magnetic personality. He capitalized on the attention and he craved more. 
 And then he fell. But he kept control of his fate. He chose to avoid prison on Federal fraud charges by killing himself here, in an end-of-the-road town in a hotel that had a casino in the shape of a riverboat.
In telephone calls back to New Jersey to his wife and to a lawyer who had once been an assistant, Mr. Bissell, 49, showed both his desperation and a sample of the bravado that had infuriated enemies over the years.
He told the former aide on Sunday night that he knew it was only a matter of time before the authorities got him and that "he wanted to have just one weekend like a normal person" before he killed himself. The next day, perhaps suspecting that Federal agents were listening, he bragged to his wife that he was fooling the authorities and he falsely claimed that he was only a few hours from home in an apparent effort to provoke a search in New York and Pennsylvania.
He was, his friends said, a person with uncomplicated tastes: the Yankees, gambling and plain American food. But there were hidden conflicts. He coached his daughters' soccer teams while he was stealing from his business partners. He was the "forfeiture king" who seized profits from drug dealers while he was planning to frame a judge and threatening to ruin an adversary by having cocaine planted in his car.
 
The Importance Of Appearances
 And his story's end, some said, delivered the kind of moral he himself might have offered about the dangers of breaking the law. "He had this sad and truly pathetic ending in a cheap room thousands of miles from anybody he knew," said Faith S. Hochberg, the United States Attorney in Newark whose office won the conviction of Mr. Bissell on 30 felony counts in May. "The throngs of supporters who were drawn to this magnetic personality weren't anywhere to be found because it was never real in the first place."
Among the people who knew the young Nick Bissell in suburban Woodbridge, his whole public career raised questions about what was real and what was not. From the earliest, they said, he discovered the importance of appearances.
As a child and then as a young man, he had always searched for fame on athletic fields but it had eluded him. Some people remembered an image of a young Nick Bissell trying hard in the sports he loved but never quite making it to stardom. An ordinary catch in baseball, they said, would be turned by him into a freeze-frame performance intended to attract praise.
By the time he was a young lawyer in Somerville, N.J., in the 1970's, he was engaged in a long battle to lose weight, which helped drive home the implausibility of his dream of being an athletic hero.
Around that time, some lawyers in Somerville say, he seemed to have discovered that in the courtroom, he could sometimes win the kind of attention that eluded him on the sports field. He delighted in dramatic performances. In a murder trial that included an accusation of a bludgeoning with a pipe, Mr. Bissell punctuated his closing argument by pounding the pipe on the defense table so hard that the defense lawyers jumped.
Some people who remember him as a young man who pined for the spotlight say his early success as a prosecutor may have speeded up the process. After working briefly as an assistant public defender, an assistant prosecutor and a part-time judge in Somerset County, Mr. Bissell was appointed chief prosecutor in 1982 by Gov. Thomas H. Kean. He was 35.
In New Jersey, there are 21 chief county prosecutors. Some have, by their aggressiveness, taken more power than others. From the beginning of his 13-year tenure, it was clear that Mr. Bissell wanted more power than most.
Publicly, he was the law-and-order prosecutor, indicting drug kingpins, sex offenders and murderers.
But privately, the Federal prosecutors said, he viewed the prosecutor's office as an opportunity to live a privileged life. He and his second wife, Barbara, who was convicted of Federal charges along with him, favored Mercedes Benzes, restaurant outings and trips to Atlantic City, where he could drop thousands of dollars in a weekend. His salary as a prosecutor was $100,000.
In one of several business ventures from which prosecutors say he skimmed profits, several of the investors were his employees in the prosecutor's office. When he asked them to invest more money, the employees said they could not afford to make additional payments.
One employee who was a witness at the trial last spring said Mr. Bissell's response was "that's why we have raises," making it clear that one cost of being employed by Mr. Bissell was to be sure that Mr. Bissell was comfortable.
One of Mr. Bissell's investors was his closest ally for many years, his chief of detectives, Richard Thornburg. Mr. Thornburg, a onetime high school football star who told stories about shooting his way out of danger as a military officer in Vietnam, was, some people said, a tough-talking role model for Mr. Bissell.
Some witnesses against Mr. Bissell said Mr. Thornburg was as involved as the prosecutor in abuses that included luring drug suspects with valuable assets into Somerset County so the prosecutor's office could seize the property.
 
Hurt by Testimony From a Close Ally
 The turning point in the Federal investigation of Mr. Bissell occurred when the prosecutors persuaded Mr. Thornburg to testify against Mr. Bissell. Among other things, he said that Mr. Bissell planned to frame a Somerset County judge who had displeased him by making a ruling in a case that was unfavorable to the prosecution.
In his testimony, Mr. Thornburg said that when Mr. Bissell learned that the judge was at a Bridgewater bar, he sent a detective there and "wanted the detective to follow him so we could get him for drunk driving." The plan, however, did not result in any action; the judge went home that night without being arrested.
When Mr. Bissell testified, he said that it was Mr. Thornburg's idea to frame the judge. But the jurors told reporters after the trial that Mr. Bissell's defense seemed limited to unpersuasive denials of the testimony of about two dozen prosecution witnesses including his ex-wife and his accountant.
Since Mr. Bissell's conviction, New Jersey courts have been evaluating claims that his misconduct affected prosecutions. In November, a Superior Court judge in Somerville, Leonard Arnold, ordered a new trial for a man who was convicted of being a drug kingpin with Mr. Bissell as the prosecutor.
The judge concluded that Mr. Bissell intimidated some witnesses and made secret deals with others to win the conviction and then lied about it. "A review of the facts in this case reveals a disturbing pattern of disinformation," the judge said.
According to the Federal prosecutors, Mr. Bissell's partner in many of his illegal activities was his wife, Barbara, who was the mother of his two teen-age daughters. He also had a son with his first wife. The son, Nicholas Bissell 3d, recently graduated from college.
A former legal secretary, Barbara Bissell appeared to many to be pushing Mr. Bissell on in his interest in material comforts. Warren Kimber Jr., the president of a gasoline distributor that supplied a gas station the Bissells partly owned, said she took care of the books.
Mr. Kimber testified that Mr. Bissell once threatened to plant cocaine in Mr. Kimber's car if Mr. Kimber did not give in during negotiations over an effort by the Bissells to give Mrs. Bissell control over the gas station franchise.
At the trial, Mr. Kimber said he briefly considered making some sort of complaint about the business methods of the Bissells but realized that battling the county prosecutor was futile. After all, Mr. Kimber said to the jurors, "If we file a complaint, who do we file it with, Nicholas Bissell?"
Mr. Kimber said Mrs. Bissell seemed to be a full partner in an operation that prosecutors say included skimming tens of thousands of dollars in gas station profits. Throughout the trial, Mr. Bissell's lawyer tried to portray her as a wife who simply followed her husband's orders. When Mr. Bissell cut off his electronic bracelet and disappeared on Nov. 18, leaving his wife to face sentencing alone, her lawyer, Rita E. Donnelly, began describing her client as a victim.
Mrs. Bissell is scheduled to be sentenced on Friday. Her lawyer said she plans to ask the judge for leniency because Mrs. Bissell was cooperative in helping find Mr. Bissell, according to The Star-Ledger of Newark.
By the time Mr. Bissell drove into this gambling town an hour and a half's drive south of Las Vegas, his wife's lawyer at home was already telling reporters that he was so selfish he had abandoned his wife and daughters after selling much of their household furnishings.
But Gilbert G. Miller, a former employee he called from here last Sunday night, said he was depressed and knew he was running out of money and time. He said he "just wanted to have one more weekend like a normal person" before he killed himself, Mr. Miller said.
Mr. Miller said he had no escape plan and knew that he would inevitably be discovered. "He said he felt incredibly alone and he really missed the kids," Mr. Miller said. "He said, 'I don't have the means or the psychological ability to pull it off.' "
"He said he had no idea how hard this would be," Mr. Miller said. "He had no illusions at all that he was going to walk out of this."
Mr. Miller said that he had been speaking to Mr. Bissell periodically for months and that he had appeared to grow increasingly convinced that the 10-year prison term he faced would leave him ruined. "I'll be 59," and unemployable upon release from prison, Mr. Bissell said. The day after the telephone call, Mr. Miller said he warned Federal prosecutors that Mr. Bissell appeared likely to kill himself if he was surprised. He said he was disturbed that Federal marshals burst in on Mr. Bissell.
It is not known why he ended up here, a strip of hotels with dancing lights in a desolate corner of the state where Nevada meets Arizona and California. It is not a place of high rollers. The parking lots are filled with recreational vehicles. Outside the Colorado Belle, the hotel-casino built in the shape of a Mississippi riverboat where Mr. Bissell spent his last days, a neon sign flashes "Rooms $16" all night.
Thomas F. Ball, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department's chief detective in Laughlin, said many of the police calls here are for purse snatchings or ostensible robberies reported by one spouse or another who is too embarrassed to go home and admit to losing all the family money.
But Detective Ball said, "We've arrested quite a few fugitives. I don't know why they feel they can hide here."
 
Learning to Play A New Betting Game
 While Mr. Bissell was here, Miki Bingham, a blackjack dealer, taught him to play a betting card game called Let It Ride. He kept his bets small and took no chances. He never won at Let It Ride, Ms. Bingham said.
On Monday he called his wife. "Pick up. Pick up," he said to the answering machine when she did not answer. She finally answered at 5:15 P.M. There were two Federal agents with her and they began tracing his call from a cellular phone.
According to Ms. Donnelly, Mrs. Bissell's lawyer, "He was just bragging about how he got away and how he fooled everybody." He said he was just a few hours away, the lawyer said, and he seemed to be mocking the Federal agents for their inability to find him.
The next morning Federal marshals were here standing in the red carpeted hall outside Room 374. "I can't do 10 years," he told them.
Detective Ball, who arrived at the room a few minutes after Mr. Bissell shot himself, said there was very little blood. There was a new button-down shirt still wrapped in plastic he had bought on the trip.
The hotel security guards began moving curious people away. "There didn't seem to be a lot of excitement," Mr. Ball said. "It was another day in the life of the casinos."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The prosecutor Nicholas L. Bissell Jr., who killed himself in a Nevada hotel, is shown at left after his Federal court arraignment in June. (Associated Press); He was interviewed after a grand jury refused to indict the actor Kelsey Grammer on charges of having sex with an underage girl. (Frank Dougherty for The New York Times); Above is his 1964 high school yearbook picture.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOMERSET COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING SHOOTINGS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); LAWYERS (76%); FELONIES (76%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); COCAINE (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (63%); SOCCER (50%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM; BISSELL, NICHOLAS L JR

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



27 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 52; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: New Curriculum From Albany: the Irish Potato Famine, or One View of It

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 20

 BODY:
One of the most heated debates in the New York State Legislature this year had nothing to do with the state's ballooning budget gap, its welfare and crime policies or any of the other day-to-day affairs of state government.
Instead, it involved an event that took place more than a century ago and 3,000 miles away: 
 The Irish potato famine.
The debate began when Joseph Crowley, an Assemblyman from a largely Irish section of Queens, proposed a bill that would require every public and private school in the state to teach about the famine's horrors.
"This is a tragedy in world history that hasn't been given proper attention," said Mr. Crowley, who sponsored the legislation in part to commemorate the 150th anniversary of Ireland's Great Hunger, as it has become known.
But the unusual bill -- which was eventually passed by both houses of the Legislature and signed into law by the Governor -- wound up creating a rift in relations between Britain and New York (the British Embassy has registered a protest), and it drew the scorn of some historians and even a few state lawmakers, who see it as a brazen example of ethnic pandering that sets a troubling legislative precedent.
What business, they ask, does the Legislature have tinkering with the state's social studies curriculum? As John J. Faso, a Republican Assemblyman from Kinderhook who argued against the bill, put it, "I suppose if we had a large Cambodian population, we could expect a law mandating lessons about the horrors of Pol Pot."
In many ways, this debate is similar to the clashes that have erupted each time a minority group -- whether black, gay, Asian or American Indian -- has pressed for greater recognition of its triumphs and tragedies in the classroom.
But the job of choosing what to include in a curriculum has generally been left to educators, not politicians. That has largely, though not always, prevented the process of deciding what facts and concepts children should learn from becoming too politicized.
What the Legislature recently did, experts say, subverted that process. Diane Ravitch, a senior research scholar at New York University, said the passage of Mr. Crowley's bill opened the way for curriculums to be rewritten each time power changes hands -- in theory, anyway.
"It's stupid," she said. "The last thing that a diverse society like this one needs is for politicians to decide what history to teach and how to teach it. History would end up being changed with each legislative session."
This is not the first time the Legislature has mandated what students should learn in the classroom -- from physical education (1910) to humane treatment of birds and animals (1917) to highway safety (1937) with a bicycle safety amendment (1973). The last change was in 1994, when lawmakers required schools to teach about human rights violations "with particular attention to the study of the inhumanity of genocide, slavery and the Holocaust."
The Crowley bill amended that law, adding the words "and the mass starvation of Ireland from 1845 to 1850." But supporters of Mr. Crowley's bill went beyond simply requiring that the Great Hunger be added to the curriculum. Likening the famine to the Holocaust, they argued that England's policies during the 19th century had been intended to spread the famine and starve the Irish people.
As Gov. George E. Pataki said when he signed the bill into law, "History teaches us the Great Irish Hunger was not the result of a massive failure of the Irish potato crop but rather was the result of a deliberate campaign by the British to deny the Irish people the food they needed to survive."
Not so, say historians and scholars. They point out that the English role during that period is a matter of great academic debate. One interpretation, for example, is that the British authorities refused to import cheap food to relieve the famine because some economists of the time argued that that would undermine the region's free market system.
"Genocide is certainly not the only historical interpretation," said Peter N. Stearns, vice president for teaching at the American Historical Association in Washington. "This is why you hate to see subjects being mandated this way into the curriculum."
The British Government felt obliged to weigh in on the recent debate after the Governor signed the bill into law. "It seems to me rather insulting to the many millions who suffered and died in concentration camps across Europe to imply that their man-made fate was in any way analogous to the natural disaster in Ireland a century before," John Kerr, an official with the British Embassy in Washington, said in a recent letter to the Governor.
"With hindsight," he continued, "it is easy to argue that different policy decisions, in Dublin and London, by those fighting the famine might have been more effective in reducing its scale. But I don't think anyone seriously argues now that there was an official intent to cause suffering or starvation."
Still, the bill's supporters remain firm in their convictions. John J. McEneny, an Assemblyman from Albany who is also a local historian, conceded that the British Government's actions could not be compared to the methodical brutality of the Nazis. But he said the British clearly wanted to eradicate the Irish and their culture, noting that the authorities in London had banned Roman Catholicism and the Gaelic language. "We have less a case of the deliberateness of a Buchenwald and much more a case of the ethnic cleansing in Bosnia," he said.
The bill's supporters also argue that it was the duty of the Legislature to insure that those dark years be taught because millions of refugees who fled the famine landed in this country and, as the first major wave of European immigrants, radically altered the course of American history. To their millions of descendants, the famine and the migration are a matter of family lore. At the same time, many believe it has never been given adequate coverage in the classroom.
"We do not mandate the teaching of the Civil War, because it's already being taught," said Mr. McEneny, whose ancestors escaped the famine by immigrating to New York. "But the subject of the famine has been neglected, even though it forever changed the demographics of New York and beyond."
It was an argument that many legislators and the Governor found hard to oppose. "I think a lot of legislators realized it was not a good idea," said Mr. Faso, the upstate Assemblyman who argued against the bill. "But they were concerned about how it would appear if they voted against the bill."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THROUGH THE YEARS: Avoiding Kidnappers and Planting Trees"
The New York State Legislature has the authority to mandate what public schools and private schools receiving state money should teach. Here are examples of the subjects it has added.
 
1910 Required schools to provide for a daily pledge of allegiance and instruction in correct use and display of the flag.
 
1917 Required teaching "the humane treatment and protection of animals and birds."
 
1947 Required Conservation Day assemblies.
 
1957 Permitted courses in "safe use of firearms and game laws, and of proper hunting and conservation practices."
 
1973 Added instruction in bicycle safety to highway safety lessons.
 
1977 Required "instruction so as to discourage the misuse and abuse of alcohol, tobacco and other drugs."
 
1994 Added prevention of child abduction to physical education.
 
1994 Required "courses of instruction in patriotism, citizenship and human rights issues, with particular attention to the study of the inhumanity of genocide, slavery and the Holocaust."
 
1994 Amended animal-cruelty ban to specifically prohibit teachers from using live vertebrate animals in certain lessons or experiments.
 
1996 Amended flag law to require that in lessons on the elections or in mock elections, all teachers use sample ballots provided by the local Board of Elections.
 
1996 Included "the mass starvation of Ireland from 1845 to 1850" in the human rights lessons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND; NEW YORK STATE; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CAMBODIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; HISTORY; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FAMINE FAMINE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HISTORY (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); CURRICULA (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (52%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND JOSEPH CROWLEY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



28 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-20
 
BEHIND THE SAUDI VEIL
A special C.I.A. task force has concluded that Saudi Arabia remains politically stable, but that the United States needs to find new ways to gather intelligence in one of the world's most closed societies. 1
 
In Washington, Prince Bandar is the voice of Saudi Arabia. 20
 
The American Defense Secretary met with the Saudi King. 20
 
THE MYSTERY OF CLUE'S INVENTOR
A British law clerk who invented a popular board game died in such obscurity two years ago, it was learned last week, that not even Colonel Mustard or Miss Scarlet had a clue. 1
 
BRITAIN'S PROMINENT NONCITIZEN
Mohamed al-Fayed, the Egyptian-born owner of Harrod's and Punch, can claim to have once saved the pound sterling from virtual collapse -- but Britain will still not have him as a citizen. 3
 
DOMINICAN SETS NEW COURSE
The new President of the Dominican Republic, Leonel Fernandez, has embarked on a potentially hazardous course, taking on Congress and a corrupt bureaucracy. 15
 
YUGOSLAVIA'S NEW POWER BROKER
Zoran Djindjic, a telegenic 44-year-old opposition leader, may emerge as the new political power broker in Yugoslavia, but he is considered as calculating as the man he could replace. 18
 
JUSTICE ARRIVES IN BOSNIA
The day after the war crimes tribunal in The Hague handed down its first sentence, there was a feeling in some parts of Bosnia that for some of those killed in the war justice may have at last begun. 18
 
National 8-16, 20
 
NEW CHANCES ON CLEAN AIR
The Clinton Administration's new proposal to tighten national air quality standards may offer an opportunity for some regions of the country that have struggled for years to bring their cities into compliance with the existing clean-air goals. 1
 
STORMY SENATE SESSION LOOMS
It is unclear whether Trent Lott will succeed as a leader of the Senate, for the 105th Congress poses special problems that may not be easily managed by someone with his experience. 1
 
CALIFORNIA FIGHT FAR FROM OVER
Despite declarations of victory on Election Day by supporters of California's anti-affirmative initiative turned out to be premature, with a court fight over the measure's constitutionality just getting under way. 1
 
NEW PRICE GAUGE URGED
A Congressionally appointed panel is expected to recommend that the Government create a new price gauge that would more accurately reflect inflation. 11
 
VICTIMS' FAMILIES PRESS FOR TAPES
Some family members of Valujet crash victims are pressing to hear the cockpit voice recording, saying that for them, part of grieving is wanting to know every detail, even those that others might find unbearable. 8
 
PRESERVING BOSTON'S JEWISH PAST
Efforts are under way to preserve a relic from the period of Jewish immigration to Boston, between 1880 and 1920, when thousands of families poured into the city's North and West Ends. 8
 
SPOTLIGHT ON MARIJUANA PROGRAM
The passage of voter initiatives in California and Arizona allowing the medical use of marijuana has caused renewed interest in a little-known Government program that supplies marijuana for medicinal purposes to eight people across the country. 11
 
PROFESSOR TURNS SLEUTH
Benjamin Austin is a sleuth on the trail of offenders who may well have committed no crime. It is the crime they deny or minimize that offends him: the Holocaust. 16
 
FRICTION OVER NEW ARRIVALS
Like many other communities across the New York region and the nation, Mount Kisco, an affluent suburban village in Westchester County has been struggling to adapt to an influx of Hispanic immigrants, many of them ill-educated day laborers from impoverished villages in Central America. And now, crackdowns on overcrowded housing in Mount Kisco are being criticized by some as a form of official harassment of immigrants. 20
 
Metropolitan 47-56
 
MAYOR REBUFFS FEARS ON TRASH
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said New York City would have little trouble finding places to accept its garbage if it is able to shut the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island by 2001, brushing aside fears that some states might bar the waste in a bit of anti-New York fervor. 47
 
FRICTION OVER NEW ARRIVALS
Like many other communities across the New York region and the nation, Mount Kisco, an affluent suburban village in Westchester County, has been struggling to adapt to an influx of Hispanic immigrants, many of them ill-educated day laborers from impoverished villages in Central America. And now, crackdowns on overcrowded housing in Mount Kisco are being criticized by some as a form of official harassment of immigrants. 47
 
THE NEED FOR GIVING GROWS
As representatives of social service agencies in New York City say pleas for help far outstrip their resources, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund begins its 85th annual appeal. 47
 
Obituaries 58

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NETHERLANDS (74%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (74%); 

COMPANY: AIRTRAN HOLDINGS INC (51%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NETHERLANDS (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); BOARD GAMES (70%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (69%); AIR QUALITY (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); WAR CRIMES (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); BRITISH POUND (54%); 

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%); TRENT LOTT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



29 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: H.M.O. System Needn't Reduce Quality of Care;
Solution to Costs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You imply (front page, Nov. 25) that managed care is the problem. In fact, managed care is a solution to the real problem: high medical costs. 
 Regardless of whether health maintenance organizations or the government runs the health care system, the excess supply of doctors and hospitals in New York and the country as a whole means that old-style fees can no longer be supported and, as a result, payments to doctors will be reduced. In general, per-member monthly fees align physician incentives with patients: keeping people well costs least, and making mistakes costs more. Managed care presents an opportunity for quality and economy to go hand in hand.
 
ALAIN C. ENTHOVEN
SARA J. SINGER
Stanford, Calif., Nov. 26, 1996
 
The writers are, respectively, a professor and a special assistant at the Stanford Business School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); HEALTH CARE (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



30 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: H.M.O. System Needn't Reduce Quality of Care;
Uninsured Among Us

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Harry and Louise Were Right, Sort Of" (Week in Review, Nov. 24) details the march to managed care with one omission: the 41 million uninsured. The growth of health maintenance organizations has failed to slow the increase in the number of working Americans without health insurance. Omitting the uninsured from a discussion of health care is like discussing Moby-Dick without mentioning the whale.
The 1995 Census Bureau statistic of 41 million uninsured Americans does not even include the 20 million who had health insurance for only part of a year. Thus, the totally uninsured plus the partly uninsured equals 26.8 percent of our population: one-fourth of a nation with no or inadequate health care. 
 Yes, Louise, there is a better way. It has been accepted around the world. It would restore free choice of physician and hospital. It would put patients before profits. It would free doctors to make medical, not economic, decisions. It would cover everyone. It is called national health insurance.
 
JAMES S. BERNSTEIN, M.D.
Rockville Centre, L.I., Nov. 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); CENSUS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



31 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 3; Column 6; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE FOOTBALL;
Trojans Finally Top Irish In Overtime

BYLINE: By TOM FRIEND 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 30

 BODY:
One coach is miniature (Lou Holtz) and one coach is overweight (John Robinson), but now this odd couple will have something to talk about if they end up together in the unemployment line.
Holtz has resigned, and Robinson is reportedly on the verge of being dismissed, so they had no problem playing deep into the night this evening. 
 Brad Otton, the University of Southern California's aching quarterback who was told by Robinson to sit out the second half, threw a 5-yard touchdown pass to Rodney Sermons in overtime, and then linebacker Kory Minor batted down Ron Powlus's fourth-down pass to preserve U.S.C.'s 27-20 victory over Notre Dame in front of 90,296 at the Los Angeles Coliseum.
The result left Notre Dame in limbo and Robinson with ammunition for his next meeting with athletic director Mike Garrett. The Irish (8-3) needed a victory to secure a berth in a major alliance bowl (probably the Fiesta Bowl), but instead Holtz may have coached his last game at Notre Dame.
Because most lower-tier bowls are locked into contracts with conferences -- or have already signed contracts with other teams -- there is no guarantee the Irish have a place to go in the post-season.
"My gut feels like someone's reached in and pulled out my insides," Holtz said. "I've never felt this low. I feel bad for my players. My seniors and the players who made the mistakes. That's life."
On the other hand, this was U.S.C.'s bowl game. The Trojans are 6-6 and have finally defeated the Irish for the first time since 1982.
"Nice to have a one-game winning streak in this series," Robinson said. "But I'm not important in this. It's off our kids' backs. They've played hard all year."
Notre Dame gave the game back in regulation. It shanked a critical extra point, roughed the kicker on U.S.C.'s overtime extra point and fumbled four times -- once on the U.S.C. 1-yard line, once on its own 12. So the Irish needed Autry Denson's legs just to save face.
Denson gained 160 yards on 32 carries, but just when he appeared to clinch the victory with a 9-yard touchdown, kicker Jim Sanson swerved the extra point wide left with 3 minutes 52 seconds remaining. It meant U.S.C. could tie with a touchdown and a 2-point conversion.
"The young man feels terrible about it," Holtz said. "You're 18, 19 years old and you want to be in that situation. But when you don't come through, you can't let it ruin your life."
Otton -- with his ribs and sternum bruised -- had the Trojans in the end zone two minutes later. He completed passes of 25 and 15 yards and let tailback Delon Washington do the rest. Washington sweeped 15 yards for the improbable touchdown with 1:50 remaining and then slammed in 3 yards for the conversion that tied the game, 20-20.
Notre Dame attempted a game-winning drive in regulation, but went backward, and U.S.C. nearly blocked the Irish punt with 35 seconds left. Instead, the Trojans took over on their own 45 with 28 seconds left and simply ran out of time on the Irish 22.
If U.S.C. had done better on fourth down, it would not have come to that. Powlus's improvised touchdown pass to Cikai Champion, on fourth-and-8, was an accident. Powlus scrambled from a rush, and found Champion in the right corner of the end zone for a 14-6 lead with 23 seconds left in the third quarter.
Meanwhile, Robinson failed on his own fourth-down attempt: a faked punt from his own 26. Notre Dame stuffed Chris Claiborne on the fake run, and it looked like Robinson had given the game away, not to mention his job. But he was bailed out when Notre Dame's Malcolm Johnson was stripped miraculously by Sammy Knight on the U.S.C. 1-yard line. That gave U.S.C. a prayer.
Word got back to the Trojans this week that Holtz had said U.S.C. was not playing like a champion, and that led to an irritable Trojan team meeting Friday night. They vowed that Holtz's last regular season game would be a memorable one -- a loss.
Holtz, meanwhile, has almost taken pity on Robinson, and during a scholarship luncheon this week in Los Angeles, he indirectly scolded Garrett.
"If John Robinson gets fired," Holtz said, "then every school on U.S.C.'s schedule should throw victory parties. There isn't a better coach in America."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME; UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (92%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME; UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (92%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL ATHLETES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SPORTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); 

PERSON: FRIEND, TOM MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



32 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1;Page 1;Column 1;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 5072 words

HEADLINE: RUSHING AWAY FROM TAXES: The Capital Gains Bypass -- A special report.;
Wealthy, Helped by Wall St., New Find Ways to Escape Tax on Profits

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES with FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Last spring, Wall Street bankers made an irresistible sales pitch to Eli Broad, the billionaire home builder and co-founder of the booming SunAmerica insurance empire.
For a fee, they would help him lock in $194 million in profits on some of his SunAmerica stock and free up cash to pay family debts -- best of all, without having to sell the stock and give up all future profits on his shares. He would therefore not owe a penny of the estimated $54 million in taxes he would face if he sold the shares. 
 Mr. Broad accepted. "We have our cake," he said recently with a chuckle, "and are eating it too."
The thousands of less affluent investors who also own SunAmerica stock, either individually or through mutual funds, get no such deals. To cash in on their stock, they almost invariably have to sell it and face a Federal tax of up to 28 percent on their profits.
Seventy-five years after it was enacted, the Federal tax on profits from the sale of stock, land or other assets -- known as the capital gains tax -- is becoming largely academic to the nation's wealthiest taxpayers. Even as a growing number of Americans with more modest incomes are paying capital gains taxes because of their growing mutual-fund profits, wealthy taxpayers like Mr. Broad can take advantage of a growing arsenal of Wall Street techniques to delay or entirely avoid taxes on their investment gains.
These strategies, some granted by Congress and others using the tax code in legal but wholly unanticipated ways, give taxpayers these breaks:
*Owners of a private business can sell it to their employees without paying capital gains taxes as long as they put the proceeds in certain investments -- investments that Wall Street is eager to provide.
*Real estate owners can swap properties without the capital gains tax required when a sale is made, allowing them to diversify their holdings and raise cash for other purposes.
*Large shareholders can use any of several exotic Wall Street strategies to raise cash and lock in their stock market profits without actually selling their shares, which would create a tax bill.
Some of these techniques have been around for a dozen years or more but are now being used in new and aggressive ways. Others are new -- the technique Mr. Broad used is only three years old. It allowed him to use his SunAmerica stock as a sort of informal collateral for an ingenious security issued and sold by Merrill Lynch, which then passed much of the money raised from that sale back to Mr. Broad.
Coming a decade after Congress enacted changes designed to make the tax system simpler and more equitable, the proliferation of these tax-avoidance techniques among the wealthiest Americans raises questions of fairness in some minds.
"The simple fact is that anyone sitting on a big pot of money today probably isn't paying capital gains taxes," said David Bradford, an economist at Princeton University and a critic of the current income tax system. "And the Government can adopt rule after rule after rule -- but the people who will get stuck paying capital gains taxes will be the ordinary investors who own mutual funds."
William Gale, an economist at the Brookings Institution, agreed: "How fair is a tax that the wealthy can apparently avoid but the middle class gets stuck with? I don't see any fairness in that."
The consequences of Wall Street's ingenuity worry even some of those who profit from it. "I am torn on this issue," said Robert Willens, a managing director and tax analyst at Lehman Brothers. "As someone who makes my living catering to these clients, I find these products useful and successful. But as a citizen, which I am after about 6:30 every evening, I worry that there is a growing perception that these tax techniques are available only to the wealthy few, that the average citizen and investor doesn't have access to them. Nothing does more to undermine our tax system than that."
For Wall Street, these techniques are highly profitable. Rather than producing a one-time payment, many of these deals generate continuing annual fees of as much as 2 percent a year on the profits locked in by the taxpayer -- a handsome fee, but still a pittance compared with the 28 percent tax that affluent taxpayers would owe Uncle Sam alone if they sold their assets the old-fashioned way. As the techniques grow increasingly complex, a dizzying vocabulary is arising among the cognoscenti -- terms like upreits, swaps, DECS, Strypes, ACES and zero-cost collars.
The growing use of such rarely disclosed techniques became a public issue last year after Estee Lauder, the cosmetics-company founder, and her son Ronald Lauder, a prominent Republican politician in New York, used a popular Wall Street tactic to avoid millions in capital gains taxes when their family business was sold to the public. That deal helped prompt the Clinton Administration to propose legislation early this year that would close loopholes that a few of these techniques exploit.
That proposal awaits the new Republican-controlled Congress, but Wall Street is already developing strategies that would probably survive even if the proposed changes became law. In fact, some tax lawyers say, the Clinton proposals would hit hardest at the few simple tax-avoidance steps that are available to less affluent investors, while leaving largely intact the more complicated techniques available only to wealthier investors.
The Internal Revenue Service has officially challenged one of the elaborate techniques Wall Street has introduced for individual taxpayers in recent years, but tax lawyers say that fight does not affect the other popular strategies now in use.
It is impossible to estimate how much these transactions cost the Government in taxes each year, because only corporate officers or other insiders are required to disclose them. But the stakes are clearly high: In just three deals disclosed by corporate officers in the last year, the Federal capital gains tax bills would have totaled as much as $190 million.
Of course, Americans have long been able to avoid paying capital gains taxes simply by never selling their assets during their lifetimes. Under the tax code, any capital gains owed at death are erased and the asset passes to the heirs at full market value. Economists estimate that one-half to two-thirds of all accumulated capital gains in the economy escape taxation through this simple loophole. But there is a big drawback to this buy-and-hold approach: The assets' value could go down, wiping out paper profits and creating a crisis if the investor had borrowed against those assets.
Enter Wall Street. The common thread among its techniques is the separation of legal ownership from the practical effects of ownership. It is now possible, for example, for an investor to remain the legal owner of a block of stock although he is no longer exposed to any of the risks and benefits of owning that stock, from the danger of a plummeting share price to the future quarterly dividend payments. As long as he remains the legal owner until he dies, no capital gains taxes are ever imposed, even if he had shed the risks and rewards of owning those assets years earlier.
These techniques go well beyond the traditional hedging, which uses counterbalancing investments to avoid or lessen losses on a portfolio. They not only reduce risk, as hedging does, they also generate cash that an investor can deploy elsewhere, or they allow investors to diversify in ways they once could do only by selling assets and paying the taxes. In essence, these techniques provide most of the practical effects of a sale without requiring an actual sale. And if there is no sale, as defined in tax law, no taxes are owed.
To be sure, the wealthiest Americans still pay the lion's share of capital gains taxes collected from individuals, which totaled about $36.2 billion in 1994. Only about 8 percent of all individual taxpayers reported any capital gains in 1994, the most recent year for which the Internal Revenue Service has estimates. And over the last decade, taxpayers making $500,000 or more a year reported between one-third and one-half of all individual capital gains each year.
But a fast-growing, though still small, percentage of reported capital gains are coming from investments in mutual funds, half of whose shareholders make less than $60,000 a year. For example, from 1988 to 1994 the amount that mutual funds paid in capital gains to shareholders, adjusted to exclude institutional investors, grew from less than 3 percent of the amount of capital gains reported by all individual taxpayers to almost 13 percent. Estimates for 1995 put it as high as 16 percent. And these numbers do not include capital gains on the sale of mutual fund shares.
Indeed, tax data suggest that the value of capital gains on mutual fund investments was up sharply between 1988 and 1994 even as the amount of all capital gains reported by individuals dipped and then rose slightly.
Tax analysts cannot say why the total amount of capital gains reported by all individuals has not grown more sharply during those years, or whether the new techniques for avoiding capital gains taxes played a role. Indeed, many analysts said they had never heard of such techniques.
What is clear, however, is that as Americans continue to pour money into mutual funds, more mainstream taxpayers are encountering the capital gains tax -- just as Wall Street is making the tax increasingly voluntary for its wealthiest customers.
 
Businesses
 
Selling a Company With No Tax Bill
James M. Hunt, a successful entrepreneur in Kankakee, Ill., pocketed about $45 million in profit when he sold his employee-leasing business, T.T.C. Illinois Inc., to his employees in July 1995. How big was his capital gains tax? Exactly zero, thanks to an obscure provision of the tax code called Section 1042, enacted in 1984.
The same tax break was used several times in the late 1980's by the Wesray Capital Corporation, an investment partnership that included the former Treasury Secretary William E. Simon, to quickly shelter its profits. Among those profits was a $700 million gain on the sale of the Avis car-rental agency to that company's employees in 1987, less than two years after Wesray bought it.
The Section 1042 tax break is straightforward: The owner of a private business who sells at least 30 percent, and as much as 100 percent, of that business to an employee stock ownership plan, or ESOP, owes no capital gains taxes on the proceeds, as long as he reinvests them in other domestic corporate securities and does not sell those securities during his lifetime.
In 1989, apparently in response to quick-flipped deals like Wesray's, Congress added one more string: the seller must have owned the business for at least three years.
But the tax break still worked like a charm for Mr. Hunt, the Kankakee multimillionaire. "It is the perfect exit strategy in a situation like ours," said Don Ciaccio, T.T.C.'s chief financial officer. "The owner wanted out but he had certain cash-flow needs. We looked at a couple of potential buyers, but he'd have had to pay the capital gains tax, and it just wouldn't have worked."
Francois de Vissher, the president of De Vissher & Company in Greenwich, Conn., a financial adviser and investment banker, said of the ESOP-sale strategy, "Economically, it is a fabulous transaction."
Congress hoped that the tax break would encourage the formation of ESOP's, but even companies that formed ESOP's before 1984 can benefit from it.
Wagner, Hohnes & Inglis, an 85-person engineering concern in Mount Holly, N.J., formed its ESOP in 1976 to help attract and retain highly skilled employees, its co-founder, Philip Inglis, said. But today, that ESOP is also giving the founders a way to cash out without paying capital gains taxes.
Blair Wagner and Murray Hohnes, who started the company 32 years ago in Mr. Hohnes's garage, have sold their stakes to the ESOP and retired. Mr. Inglis, who joined the company 30 years ago, said he would sell part of his stake to the ESOP this year. And Don Cummings, the president, and other executive shareholders will also be able to sell their stakes to the ESOP when they are ready to retire.
The company, with annual revenue of about $5 million, is still fairly typical of the businesses most likely to use the ESOP tax break, said James H. Willis, an ESOP-savvy investment adviser in Charlottesville, Va. To him, the arcane world of tax-driven ESOP deals "isn't Wall Street's kind of market."
Do not bet on that, said James R. Zukin, a partner in Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, a big investment banking firm in Los Angeles and the largest ESOP adviser in the country. "As a firm, we made a decision two years ago to put a lot more resources into ESOP's, and it has paid off in spades," he said. "We are hitting the hide off the ball."
The firm is doing twice the number of ESOP deals it did two years ago, some of them as large as $250 million, he said. Besides advising company owners on how to sell to an ESOP, the firm also arranges financing and sometimes invests in the company along with the new ESOP. Indeed, last year, the firm set up a $188 million fund that invests only in ESOP purchases.
Duff & Phelps and other firms are also competing for ESOP deals, and Goldman, Sachs & Company, Paine Webber and Morgan Stanley & Company all have units catering to the special reinvestment needs of business owners who have sold to an ESOP. Among their offerings are unusual investments like 60-year American corporate bonds known as ESOP notes.
Wall Street's growing enthusiasm for ESOP's is driven both by recent history and by baby boom demographics.
Dozens of once-public American corporations were converted to private ownership in the leveraged-buyout boom of the 1980's, Mr. Zukin explained. "And every single one of them -- where the shareholder is an individual, a trust or a partnership" -- is eligible for a tax-free sale to an ESOP, he said.
Meanwhile, entrepreneurs in the baby boom generation are moving closer to retirement, noted Corey Rosen, executive director of the National Center for Employee Ownership in Oakland, Calif. As a result, he said, "I would expect that about 10 years from now there will be a big increase in the number of businesses using this" as an exit strategy.
 
Real Estate
 
Old Loopholes, New and Improved
John J. Cali was just a teen-ager when he and his younger brother, Angelo, moved east from his native Colorado to a new home in New Jersey. John's first friend was a classmate, Edward Leshowitz, who took the 14-year-old under his wing.
That was 60 years ago, and today the Cali brothers and Mr. Leshowitz are the senior statesmen of the Cali Realty Corporation, a commercial real estate empire valued at more than $1 billion.
They are also the beneficiaries of a new ownership arrangement that gave them many of the advantages of selling their stake in that empire without exposing them to the capital gains tax. This arrangement is called an umbrella partnership real estate investment trust, known simply as an upreit.
While the ESOP tax break exists simply because Congress created it, the upreit required some financial engineering. Accountants and lawyers welded together two older tax loopholes to create a new one that better serves modern developers like the Calis.
One of those time-tested tax breaks is found in Section 1031 of the tax code, which allows taxpayers to swap one property for a substantially similar property without incurring a capital gains tax. These deals are called 1031 swaps or, more commonly, like-kind transactions.
The other loophole is the tax code's Section 721, which allows partners to transfer property to their own partnerships without triggering a capital gains tax.
Both tax breaks are deeply rooted in American tradition. "Partnership" is often a code word for "small family business," a phrase that evokes protective impulses among lawmakers. As for Section 1031, ask big-city tax lawyers about its origin and many will repeat the example of two cash-poor farmers who need to swap one field for another but cannot afford the taxes an outright sale would create.
By swapping one property for another of at least equal value, developers can endlessly defer the capital gains taxes they would have owed if they had simply sold the first property and bought the second. The only catch is that the swapped property must be "property held for investment or used in the course of a trade or business," not personal property or a family home.
In their simplest form, like-kind swaps have been common for years. One reason is that the tax code allows any kind of commercial real estate to be swapped for any other kind -- a Florida apartment building for a Nevada mining site, for example, or a Manhattan store for a Seattle pier. In 1990, when Congress considered narrowing that latitude as a way of raising revenue, real estate lobbyists successfully resisted.
In May 1991, new I.R.S. regulations cleared the way for more elaborate property swaps. Until then, middlemen who set up a swap ran the risk of being defined as the seller's agent, which could create a capital gains tax for the seller. The new rules established a "safe harbor" for such intermediaries, allowing them to expand their roles as long as they complied with the regulations, said Howard Levine, a lawyer with Roberts & Holland in Washington. Today, Cushman & Wakefield and the real estate division of Merrill Lynch are among the giant firms that do a hefty business matching property swappers around the country.
The upreit gives major real estate investors an even better way to avoid capital gains taxes because it offers two other advantages of a sale: a more diverse portfolio and easier access to ready cash. Introduced in 1992, the upreit combines a traditional real estate investment trust, the property-market version of a mutual fund, with a traditional operating partnership. The union produces a new partnership, the umbrella partnership.
Without inviting a tax bite, a developer can swap his property to the umbrella partnership. The real estate investment trust, or REIT, which is also a partner in the umbrella partnership, can sell shares to the public to raise cash, which the partnership can use to refurbish shabby buildings or buy new ones. This lets the original owner diversify his portfolio and generates additional rental income to cover partnership dividends.
John R. Cali, who is Angelo Cali's son and the chief administrative officer of Cali Realty, said the new arrangement had allowed the company to acquire new properties more easily because the upreit could swap its partnership shares, tax-free, for buildings owned by other developers who wanted to sell but who would face a big tax bite if they sold for cash.
Now that their upreit is up and running, the senior Cali brothers can also borrow against their partnership shares to raise money for other ventures, the young Mr. Cali said, or they can simply collect their growing cash dividends. As long as they do not convert their shares into the more marketable publicly traded shares of their affiliated REIT during their lifetime, they will owe no capital gains taxes on the property they contributed to the upreit.
"The structure is well accepted," said Lawrence S. Kaplan, a tax partner at the Ernst & Young/Kenneth Leventhal Real Estate Group in New York and a developer of the upreit format. Most of the real estate investment trusts formed in the last four years are upreits, he said, "and those that aren't are very sorry they're not."
Of the 300 real estate investment trusts now trading in the public market, 70 are upreits, according to figures compiled by the National Association of REIT's in Washington. Together, these upreits have a market value of $32.5 billion.
Although real estate investors -- from the Calis to Sam Zell, the Chicago financier -- have made the most use of Section 1031, tax lawyers have done like-kind swaps for other assets as well, including automobile fleets and manufacturing equipment.
A few even report using the technique to help wealthy clients swap museum-quality art or precious collectibles tax-free -- although that "pushes the envelope" by stretching the definition of "investment property," one tax lawyer said.
"People who swap art and are not picked up by the I.R.S. are simply lucky," said Eugene L. Vogel, a partner and chairman of the tax practice at Rosenman & Colin in Manhattan, which advises the Art Dealers Association of America. "There is just a narrow band of people who could squeeze it in -- if you take the position that you're holding the art for investment purposes, and can show that you've been very active both buying and selling." It would help, he added, if the swapped art had been kept in a vault rather than in a Fifth Avenue penthouse.
Still, lawyers for several art auction houses said privately that they had helped arrange such swaps for major works of contemporary art, worth $1 million or more, in recent years. "Usually it is seller-driven, especially by art collectors who are also real estate developers," one lawyer who has worked in the auction field said. "A number of sophisticated taxpayers feel that the worst that can happen is the I.R.S. will disallow it, and maybe they have a penalty and some interest to pay."
 
Securities
 
Get Rid of the Risk, But Not the Stock
Until three years ago, the Autotote Corporation was better known to people who speculated at the race track than to those who wagered on Wall Street. Its computerized wagering equipment is used at tracks, casinos and betting parlors. But with 1992 revenues of less than $43 million, the company was a dark horse by stock market standards.
In 1993, however, the company's revenue nearly doubled and Autotote's shares began to climb. Each gain added to the paper profits of the company's chairman and chief executive, A. Lorne Weil. By March 1994, his 800,000 shares of Autotote stock were worth more than $23 million, seven times their value just two years earlier.
By selling some of those shares, Mr. Weil could have locked in his profits and invested the cash in something less risky, but he would have faced a big tax bill. So he did not sell his stock -- he "swapped" it to the Bankers Trust Company, and thus earned a spot in Wall Street history.
The equity swap, which one leading tax lawyer described as "the first genuinely new financial product of the last 50 years," gave Mr. Weil all of the practical effects of selling his stock, but did not produce a penny of capital gains taxes for the Government.
Detailed reports that Mr. Weil, as a company officer, was required to file with Federal securities regulators gave the public its first look at an equity swap.
Here is how it works: Mr. Weil surrendered to Bankers Trust all the economic rewards and risks of owning 500,000 shares of his Autotote stock, worth about $13.5 million at the time, but he kept legal title to the shares. The bank gets any dividends paid on the stock and reaps any gain in the stock's price during the five-year term of the swap. In return, Bankers Trust promised to pay Mr. Weil an amount equal to what he could have earned on an alternative $13.5 million investment, minus the bank's fee. The bank further promised to reimburse Mr. Weil for any decline in the stock's price over the term of the swap, a risky obligation that the bank no doubt covered through a hedging strategy of its own.
The swap has proved well timed for Mr. Weil; his 500,000 Autotote shares are worth less than $700,000 today.
Mr. Weil's transaction was not a rare case, to judge from a full-page advertisement Bankers Trust placed in Barron's magazine in July 1994. "Too much money in just one stock?" the bank asked. "Get rid of the risk, not the stock," it answered, explaining that the bank could help any investor with at least $2 million in a single company's stock to "diversify your risk -- without selling the stock. Without owing capital gains taxes. And without sacrificing your voting rights." These were deals the bank "regularly puts together," the advertisement added.
By then, the Government was beginning to pay attention, and Treasury officials publicly questioned whether such swaps should escape taxation. But no formal action was taken and, as the stock market continued to soar, the Wall Street wizards continued to flourish in the swap market.
 
The Final Straw?
 
Political Scrutiny For Lauder Deal
What apparently galvanized the Clinton Administration into action was the unusual tax gambit used by Estee Lauder and her son Ronald Lauder as part of the deal in which their cosmetics empire was sold to the public in late 1995.
Mrs. Lauder, the company's elderly founder, and Ronald Lauder together sold 13.8 million shares in the family business. But instead of selling their shares directly to the public, they borrowed an identical number of shares from relatives and family trust accounts. Then they sold those borrowed shares, an approach that allowed them to avoid as much as $95 million in Federal capital gains taxes, not counting state taxes that might be due.
This maneuver is based on a time-tested technique known as selling short against the box. An investor who wants to lock in a profit on his shares simply borrows an identical number of shares from his broker and sells them -- a practice called selling short.
The investor is no longer affected if the stock price goes down, because he has his profit, or if it goes up, because he already has the shares he needs to replace the borrowed stock. But under the tax code's definitions, the investor still owns the original shares and no taxes are owed.
In theory, any investor can use this technique. But ordinary investors are not allowed by their brokers to withdraw the proceeds from their short sales until they have returned the shares they borrowed -- at which point they owe taxes on their profits. So most middle-income investors tend to use the technique only to defer taxes for a year or two.
But in recent years, Wall Street firms have given this technique new appeal by allowing their wealthiest clients to immediately withdraw their short-sale profits, in the form of a very inexpensive loan. Thus, a wealthy investor can lock in his profit and raise cash -- just as if he had sold his stock -- without ever having to sell during his lifetime.
On the heels of the Lauder transaction, the Clinton Administration proposed tax code amendments that would eliminate the "short against the box" as a tax-avoidance strategy. The proposals were submitted last March and were originally designed to go into effect retroactively. That halted the short-against-the-box maneuver for a few weeks, until Republican Congressional leaders, who gave the proposals an unenthusiastic reception, assured Wall Street that no retroactive changes would be enacted.
Since then, the business of shorting against the box has boomed.
 
The Swap Fund
 
A Tax Break Back From the Dead
Also booming is a tax gimmick the Government thought it had killed almost 30 years ago -- the swap fund.
Also known as an exchange fund or a diversification fund, a swap fund uses partnership tax breaks to help wealthy investors diversify their assets without paying capital gains taxes. The theory is simple: Partners can swap property tax-free into a partnership in exchange for partnership shares. So could they not also swap securities tax-free into a partnership, so that each contributing investor could own shares in a diversified portfolio without creating a tax bill?
The Government quashed the swap-fund fad in the late 1960's by barring tax-free treatment of swaps made with any partnership that had 80 percent or more of its assets invested in "readily marketable" securities.
But what if only 79 percent of the assets were readily marketable and the rest were not? In the last two years, private swap funds from a number of major Wall Street institutions -- the Bessemer Trust Companies, Goldman, Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Smith Barney -- have squeezed through that loophole.
Custom Diversified Fund Management, an investment adviser in San Francisco, has even created an entire family of swap funds, all aimed at people who "need to diversify their portfolios but would face severe tax consequences from selling even a portion of their shares," as a private sales brochure puts it.
The drawbacks of these reborn swap funds: The taxes fall due if the fund participant sells out during his lifetime. And, tax lawyers say, keeping assets tied up in illiquid investments is expensive -- though not as expensive as the tax bills that fund participants are trying to avoid.

The Cutting Edge
 
'Heads, I Win; Tails, You Lose'
Anyone who thinks that Wall Street's elaborate tax-repellents are employed only by a handful of celebrity taxpayers should consider the $223 million deal that Salomon Brothers, the Wall Street investment firm, arranged a few weeks ago.
The firm's client was the staid Western Southern Life Insurance Company in Cincinnati, which owns shares of Cincinnati Bell that were worth a lot more than the insurance company had paid for them. If the company had tried to lock in that fat profit by selling the stock, it would have faced a hefty capital gains tax.
To solve that problem, Salomon Brothers issued a new form of exchangeable notes indirectly backed by the insurance company's Cincinnati Bell shares, then sent on a substantial part of the note proceeds to Western Southern, all for a fee, of course. The deal allowed Western Southern to lock in its profit and free up low-cost cash to invest elsewhere, just as if it had sold the stock, but without incurring any taxes.
Unlike a swap or a Lauder-style deal, this tactic allows sellers to keep some of the potential for profit if the stock rises even as they shed the risk of a drop in price -- a "heads, I win; tails, you lose" transaction conducted beyond the reach of the tax collector.
Salomon, which originated the exchangeable-note concept in June 1993, calls its product a DECS note -- for debt exchangeable into common stock. Merrill Lynch and Goldman, Sachs offer similar products under different names -- Strypes and ACES, respectively.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); TAX FRAUD (72%); 

PERSON: ELI BROAD (89%); 



33 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Construction Companies;
Builders Are Taking Part of Financial Risk

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
WHEN the building boom of the 1980's turned into the bust of the 1990's, the construction companies that prospered putting up high-rise office towers had to scramble to find work. Some turned to interior work, while others focused on the public sector, building schools, hospitals and other medical facilities.
Now, the long drought appears to be easing. Old buildings downtown are being upgraded technologically or converted to residential use. Times Square is undergoing a burst of redevelopment with new theaters, movies and retail stores planned on 42d Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues. 
 The first new office tower of the decade, a 48-story building being erected by the Durst Organization at the northeast corner of 42d Streetand Seventh Avenue, has virtually all its office space leased even before demolition of the old structures on the site has been completed.
But many builders say they do not expect a return to the heady days of the 1980's, when developers developed and builders built without much entanglement in each other's business. Today, they say, builders are being pressured to use their own financial muscle to provide guarantees on the cost of projects -- something they had done in the past on publicly funded projects, but which private lenders are also now seeking, as well.
At least one builder is even offering to participate in the financing and operation of projects for corporations who would rather lease than own real estate.
The builders also say they are being urged to hold down the cost of construction financing by speeding up the process known as "fast tracking" -- beginning to build a project before the final drawings and specifications are completed. Since construction loans typically carry a higher interest rate than the mortgage on a completed project, any time that can be sliced off the building process produces a savings for the developer.
"We agreed to do the Renaissance Plaza in Brooklyn for a guaranteed maximum price and a specified delivery date," said John Babieracki, an executive vice president of Morse Diesel International, referring to the hotel-office complex now being built in downtown Brooklyn.
"Did that shift some of the risk to us?," he asked. "Yes, it did. But it gives lenders a lot of comfort to see builders who have done successful projects in the past and are willing to guarantee a price."
Not all developers need the comfort of a guarantee, to be sure. Morse Diesel is doing the $200 million renovation of the International Arrivals building at John F. Kennedy International Airport without a guarantee.
Mr. Babieracki and others in the construction industry say the experience of the 1980's, when developers were able to organize projects with little or no equity of their own and where costs often soared beyond original estimates, has permanently influenced the banks and insurance companies that have been the traditional real estate lenders. Now, they say, lenders want to see participation by builders who have pockets deep enough that they cannot simply walk away from failed projects, leaving the construction lender to absorb the loss.
"Banks are still suffering from the wounds of the 1980's, when they wound up with properties with major defaults," said Gene McGovern, president of Crow/Jones Construction Company. "Corporations also got stuck with a lot of property they did not need when they downsized and now would rather be tenants than owners."
He said these events represent an opportunity for an entrepreneurial builder who is willing to take on the role of a developer. As an example, he said, a builder could take a long term lease commitment from a highly creditworthy tenant and use that to arrange financing for a project.
"We will design, build, finance and even operate in some cases," Mr. McGovern said. He added that the tendency for corporations to seek outside suppliers for services like real estate "has opened up new avenues for construction companies who are willing to be more active than simply waiting to bid on work."
Crow/Jones is the new corporate vehicle for Mr. McGovern, who became known as the Mr. Outside (to Peter Lehrer's Mr. Inside) of the Lehrer McGovern building company, which did such projects as the renovations of the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island in the 1980's. That company was sold to Bovis International and is now known as Lehrer McGovern Bovis.
Mr. McGovern was named in August as president of Crow/Jones, a company that is a subsidiary of Philipp Holtzman A.G. of Germany.
FINANCIAL guarantees must be closely tied to detailed information about a project, said Peter J. Davoren, a vice president and general manager of the New York office of Turner Construction Company, one of the oldest companies in the field. He said many of the financial disasters of the 1980's were the result of excessive changes once construction was under way.
"We have to work closely with our clients to be sure the intent is clear," he said. "At about 75 to 80 percent of the drawings, we will be prepared to do a guarantee. For example, if we are the construction manager on a $20 million project, and we are doing it for a $500,000 fee, we will guarantee the $20 million price in addition to the fee."
The willingness of a construction manager to guarantee the price of a project illustrates the evolution of the construction business. The classic general contractor bid a job at a certain figure and was at risk for the loss if costs went above that level.
But to prepare a bid, general contractors needed complete drawings and specifications, lengthening the pre-construction phase. And any deviation from the drawings and plans as a project developed meant additional, often highly contentious, billings for change orders.
To preserve flexibility and to speed up the planning process, many developers took on builders as construction managers instead. Unlike the contractor, the construction manager agreed to work for a fixed fee and was expected to act as the developer's agent to contain costs as the details of a project are worked out.
Neither general contractors nor construction managers actually build anything. Instead they oversee the activities of multiple subcontractors who erect the steel structure of a building, add the outer walls and install the mechanical and electrical systems needed for operations.
Not everyone agrees that construction companies should be in the business of offering price guarantees and getting involved in the financing of projects. Among those with a contrary opinion is John Tishman, chairman of Tishman Realty & Construction Company, one of the last of the big family owned construction companies in New York.
The Tishman company is unusual because it acts both as a construction manager for third parties and as a developer itself. In Times Square, for example, it is renovating the New Amsterdam Theater for the Disney Company, building the 4 Times Square office tower for the Dursts and developing the E Walk entertainment and hotel complex along Eighth Avenue between 42d and 43d Streets.
"There should be no divergence of interests between the developer and the construction manager," Mr. Tishman said recently in his office at 666 Fifth Avenue. "We should be on the same side of the table as our client, rather than trying to protect our own bottom line."
He said financial risk was best placed at the level of those doing the actual building -- the subcontractors -- rather then the overall manager. In any case, he added, overemphasis on construction guarantees tends to overlook soft costs, such as professional fees and interest charges, which are equally important.
"Construction is only 50 to 55 percent of the total cost of a project," Mr. Tishman said. He said many clients share their entire financial plan for a project with his company, which can often recommend cost cutting changes. "We can often find something that can save more than anything that can be done in construction," he said.
Engineers at Morse Diesel said it was pushing the envelope of fast track construction techniques that enabled them to finish the Mohegan Sun casino in Uncasville, Conn., in 50 weeks, three to six months less than a project of its kind usually takes.
THE trick was doing many things in parallel rather than in sequence, which is the common practice, company executives said. "From the time you develop a financial package to full documents takes about 8 months," said Richard Carmichael, a company vice president and project executive for the Mohegan site, referring to the drawings and specifications for a project. "If you go with less than full documents and supplement them with meetings, you can cut that time in half."
The company's engineers call the process "flash tracking"to distinguish it from conventional fast tracking and said the unusual haste was intended to get the casino open in October, before gambling falls off during the holiday season. "It's like building a stadium for a sports team; it has got to be ready when the season opens," said Mr. Babieracki.
One technique used was to specify the amount of heating and cooling needed and to get weight estimates from the manufacturers to assist in the design of the steel structure of the building, Mr. Carmichael said. To speed installation, a helicopter was used to place the units on the roof of the just completed building.
 A caption with the article, about a Morse Diesel executive, referred imprecisely to the site. He was shown at another of the company's projects at the airport, Terminal 1.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 8, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption last Sunday about construction concerns' assumption of a larger portion of the financial risk of projects misstated the estimated cost of a renovation at John F. Kennedy International Airport and the financial arrangements. The construction portion of the renovation cost for the International Arrivals Building is expected to be $700 million, not $200 million. The Morse Diesel International company has guaranteed the price.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Babieracki of Morse Diesel International, which is doing a $200 million renovation of International Arrivals building at Kennedy Airport. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%); SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORSE DIESEL INTERNATIONAL MORSE DIESEL INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORSE DIESEL INTERNATIONAL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); AIRPORTS (60%); RETAILERS (55%); 

PERSON: BABIERACKI, JOHN; HOLUSHA, JOHN JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



34 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Star of the Past Is Charged With Stealing Small Town's Hope for the Future

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: CHESANING, Mich.

 BODY:
Three years ago this small village embraced a plan by Denny McLain, baseball's last 30-game winner, to resuscitate an ailing meat packing plant that had provided livelihoods to people here for generations.
 Mr. McLain, the former Detroit Tigers star, and a partner bought Peet Packing, whose 200 workers made smoked meats, cold cuts and sausages that were sold primarily in the East and Midwest.
 Many in this village, about 20 miles northwest of Flint, knew of Mr. McLain's checkered past, including a quilty plea in 1988 to Federal charges of racketeering and cocaine possession and a poor track record in business. Still, they desperately courted hope, and it seemed that Mr. McLain could deliver it, like he had to Tigers fans.
 Now, three years after the purchase, residents are seething. The 110-year-old plant closed last year. Mr. McLain, 52, and his partner Roger Smigiel, 45, both of suburban Detroit, are to go on trial in Federal court in Detroit on Dec. 3, charged with looting the company's pension fund of $3 million.
 Mr. McLain could get up to eight years in prison if convicted on the five-count indictment. Many villagers feel betrayed and hope he winds up behind bars.
 "I was deeply hurt to see one man could cause so much damage to so many lives in the community," said Mayor Ray Mahoney, who worked for Peet for 39 years fixing refrigeration equipment. "He came in with a big ray of hope, but I didn't trusthim, from his past problems he had with the law.
 "The company probably would have survived if he didn't touch it," added Mr. Mahoney, who is now self employed. "I'm hoping they put a stop to his racketeering, even if it means jail time."
 But Mr. McLain contends that he did nothing intentionally wrong and that the money used to bolster the company's finances.
 The closing has cast a pall on the village's 150th birthday this year. Red-white-and-blue banners hang form some homes and businesses. But some of the former Peet workers in this village of 2,600, many of Eastern European descent, are finding little to celebrate, having taken other jobs, often for less money and worse benefits.
 "Peet Packing was a very integral part of the area economy," said Dan Stasa, the village administrator. The closing "forced some people to relocate," Mr. Stasa said. He added, "It forced others to take jobs where theyhave to travel greater distances."
 Mr. McLain left baseball in the early 1970's, and opened a variety of businesses in Flordia, leaving a trail of bad debts. In 1985, in Tampa, he was convicted of racketeering, extortion and cocaine trafficking. He served 29 months of a 23-year prison sentence before his case was overturned on appeal in 1987. He pleaded guilty to lesser charges and was sentenced to the time served and probation.
 By the arly 1990's, Mr. McLain, who won the Cy Young Award as the best American League pitcher in 1968, when he won 31 games, and in 1969, was flourishing again, reportedly earning $400,000 a year in Detroit as a radio talk-show host and a co-host on a weekly television sports show.
 Then in 1994 he traded it all for Peet.
 "He was a daring, swashbuckling gambler," said a friend, Eli Zaret, a sportscaster who hosted the show with Mr. McLain, who was suspended from baseball in 1970 for consorting with gamblers. "Maybe things got too good and he had to find a edge."
 Mr. McLain, articulate and charming, with the status of a sports legend, overshadowed his partner and was seen in the community as the symbol of Peet's renaissance.
 So when the plant closed, most residents blamed Mr. McLain.
 David DuMouchel, Mr. McLain's lawyer, said the people of Chesaning were wrong to blame his client for Peet's failure. He said the pension money had nothing to do with the company's health.
 "The company was all but down when these guys came in," he said. "It was in terrible financial trouble. There's no disputing that. They couldn't have used the pension fund money to pay employees or use it to buy meat."
 "The nation that Mr. Smigiel and Mr. McLain would knowingly take money from the employee pension fund" illegally, said Thomas Cranmer, Mr. Smigiel's lawyer, "is ridiculous and illogical."
 Federal authorities allege that a financier from suburban Detroit, Jeffrey Egan, transferred pension money into dummy corporations for Mr. McLain and Mr. Smigiel. The authorities also allege that they mixed pension money with company accounts, spending it on outside businesses and personal uses, as well as the company's needs.
 Mr. Egan pleaded guilty and is expected to testify that both men knew using the money was wrong.
 Mr. Smigiel said in an interview last year that Mr. Egan had told them they could use the money.
 Federal law generally forbids employers form taking money from pension funds without permission from the Labor Department.
 "Everything was done to enhance the value of the corporation," Mr. McLain said in an interview last year. "Shame on us that it didn't work out as well as we had hoped. There were some rules out there we weren't aware of. I don't know what that makes us."
 The Peet pension fund still has about $10.3 million in cash and investments, said Mark Steckloff, a lawyer who oversees the pension fund on behalf of 475 former employees. He also said that no one had lost benefits but that future pensioners could if the missing money is not recouped.
 Dan Shooltz, co-owner of Jim's I.G.A. supermarket in town, stood near his cold cuts section, holding a Peet ham. When the plant closed, he said, a company near Detroit bought the name, recipe and packaging. "I don't think the product is as good," Mr. Shooltz said.
 Then he turned to the subject of Mr. McLain.
 "If he came through town," he said, "I think you'd see a good tar and feather."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The former baseball star Denny McLain faces trial again. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT TIGERS INC (76%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (84%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHESANING (MICH); UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PEET PACKING CO; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); BASEBALL (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (78%); MEATS (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); SENTENCING (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); EXTORTION (75%); INDICTMENTS (75%); COCAINE (75%); HVAC SYSTEMS (74%); LITIGATION (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); 

PERSON: MCLAIN, DENNY; SMIGIEL, ROGER

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1996



35 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 6791 words

HEADLINE: RUSHING AWAY FROM TAXES: The Capital Gains Bypass -- A special report.;
Wealthy, Helped by Wall St., New Find Ways to Escape Tax on Profits

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES with FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Last spring, Wall Street bankers made an irresistible sales pitch to Eli Broad, the billionaire home builder and co-founder of the booming SunAmerica insurance empire.
For a fee, they would help him lock in $194 million in profits on some of his SunAmerica stock and free up cash to pay family debts -- best of all, without having to sell the stock and give up all future profits on his shares. He would therefore not owe a penny of the estimated $54 million in taxes he would face if he sold the shares. 
 Mr. Broad accepted. "We have our cake," he said recently with a chuckle, "and are eating it too."
The thousands of less affluent investors who also own SunAmerica stock, either individually or through mutual funds, get no such deals. To cash in on their stock, they almost invariably have to sell it and face a Federal tax of up to 28 percent on their profits.
Seventy-five years after it was enacted, the Federal tax on profits from the sale of stock, land or other assets -- known as the capital gains tax -- is becoming largely academic to the nation's wealthiest taxpayers. Even as a growing number of Americans with more modest incomes are paying capital gains taxes because of their growing mutual-fund profits, wealthy taxpayers like Mr. Broad can take advantage of a growing arsenal of Wall Street techniques to delay or entirely avoid taxes on their investment gains.
These strategies, some granted by Congress and others using the tax code in legal but wholly unanticipated ways, give taxpayers these breaks:
*Owners of a private business can sell it to their employees without paying capital gains taxes as long as they put the proceeds in certain investments -- investments that Wall Street is eager to provide.
*Real estate owners can swap properties without the capital gains tax required when a sale is made, allowing them to diversify their holdings and raise cash for other purposes.
*Large shareholders can use any of several exotic Wall Street strategies to raise cash and lock in their stock market profits without actually selling their shares, which would create a tax bill.
Some of these techniques have been around for a dozen years or more but are now being used in new and aggressive ways. Others are new -- the technique Mr. Broad used is only three years old. It allowed him to use his SunAmerica stock as a sort of informal collateral for an ingenious security issued and sold by Merrill Lynch, which then passed much of the money raised from that sale back to Mr. Broad.
Coming a decade after Congress enacted changes designed to make the tax system simpler and more equitable, the proliferation of these tax-avoidance techniques among the wealthiest Americans raises questions of fairness in some minds.
"The simple fact is that anyone sitting on a big pot of money today probably isn't paying capital gains taxes," said David Bradford, an economist at Princeton University and a critic of the current income tax system. "And the Government can adopt rule after rule after rule -- but the people who will get stuck paying capital gains taxes will be the ordinary investors who own mutual funds."
William Gale, an economist at the Brookings Institution, agreed: "How fair is a tax that the wealthy can apparently avoid but the middle class gets stuck with? I don't see any fairness in that."
The consequences of Wall Street's ingenuity worry even some of those who profit from it. "I am torn on this issue," said Robert Willens, a managing director and tax analyst at Lehman Brothers. "As someone who makes my living catering to these clients, I find these products useful and successful. But as a citizen, which I am after about 6:30 every evening, I worry that there is a growing perception that these tax techniques are available only to the wealthy few, that the average citizen and investor doesn't have access to them. Nothing does more to undermine our tax system than that."
For Wall Street, these techniques are highly profitable. Rather than producing a one-time payment, many of these deals generate continuing annual fees of as much as 2 percent a year on the profits locked in by the taxpayer -- a handsome fee, but still a pittance compared with the 28 percent tax that affluent taxpayers would owe Uncle Sam alone if they sold their assets the old-fashioned way. As the techniques grow increasingly complex, a dizzying vocabulary is arising among the cognoscenti -- terms like upreits, swaps, DECS, Strypes, ACES and zero-cost collars.
The growing use of such rarely disclosed techniques became a public issue last year after Estee Lauder, the cosmetics-company founder, and her son Ronald Lauder, a prominent Republican politician in New York, used a popular Wall Street tactic to avoid millions in capital gains taxes when their family business was sold to the public. That deal helped prompt the Clinton Administration to propose legislation early this year that would close loopholes that a few of these techniques exploit.
That proposal awaits the new Republican-controlled Congress, but Wall Street is already developing strategies that would probably survive even if the proposed changes became law. In fact, some tax lawyers say, the Clinton proposals would hit hardest at the few simple tax-avoidance steps that are available to less affluent investors, while leaving largely intact the more complicated techniques available only to wealthier investors.
The Internal Revenue Service has officially challenged one of the elaborate techniques Wall Street has introduced for individual taxpayers in recent years, but tax lawyers say that fight does not affect the other popular strategies now in use.
It is impossible to estimate how much these transactions cost the Government in taxes each year, because only corporate officers or other insiders are required to disclose them. But the stakes are clearly high: In just three deals disclosed by corporate officers in the last year, the Federal capital gains tax bills would have totaled as much as $190 million.
Of course, Americans have long been able to avoid paying capital gains taxes simply by never selling their assets during their lifetimes. Under the tax code, any capital gains owed at death are erased and the asset passes to the heirs at full market value. Economists estimate that one-half to two-thirds of all accumulated capital gains in the economy escape taxation through this simple loophole. But there is a big drawback to this buy-and-hold approach: The assets' value could go down, wiping out paper profits and creating a crisis if the investor had borrowed against those assets.
Enter Wall Street. The common thread among its techniques is the separation of legal ownership from the practical effects of ownership. It is now possible, for example, for an investor to remain the legal owner of a block of stock although he is no longer exposed to any of the risks and benefits of owning that stock, from the danger of a plummeting share price to the future quarterly dividend payments. As long as he remains the legal owner until he dies, no capital gains taxes are ever imposed, even if he had shed the risks and rewards of owning those assets years earlier.
These techniques go well beyond the traditional hedging, which uses counterbalancing investments to avoid or lessen losses on a portfolio. They not only reduce risk, as hedging does, they also generate cash that an investor can deploy elsewhere, or they allow investors to diversify in ways they once could do only by selling assets and paying the taxes. In essence, these techniques provide most of the practical effects of a sale without requiring an actual sale. And if there is no sale, as defined in tax law, no taxes are owed.
To be sure, the wealthiest Americans still pay the lion's share of capital gains taxes collected from individuals, which totaled about $36.2 billion in 1994. Only about 8 percent of all individual taxpayers reported any capital gains in 1994, the most recent year for which the Internal Revenue Service has estimates. And over the last decade, taxpayers making $500,000 or more a year reported between one-third and one-half of all individual capital gains each year.
But a fast-growing, though still small, percentage of reported capital gains are coming from investments in mutual funds, half of whose shareholders make less than $60,000 a year. For example, from 1988 to 1994 the amount that mutual funds paid in capital gains to shareholders, adjusted to exclude institutional investors, grew from less than 3 percent of the amount of capital gains reported by all individual taxpayers to almost 13 percent. Estimates for 1995 put it as high as 16 percent. And these numbers do not include capital gains on the sale of mutual fund shares.
Indeed, tax data suggest that the value of capital gains on mutual fund investments was up sharply between 1988 and 1994 even as the amount of all capital gains reported by individuals dipped and then rose slightly.
Tax analysts cannot say why the total amount of capital gains reported by all individuals has not grown more sharply during those years, or whether the new techniques for avoiding capital gains taxes played a role. Indeed, many analysts said they had never heard of such techniques.
What is clear, however, is that as Americans continue to pour money into mutual funds, more mainstream taxpayers are encountering the capital gains tax -- just as Wall Street is making the tax increasingly voluntary for its wealthiest customers.
 
Businesses
Selling a Company With No Tax Bill
James M. Hunt, a successful entrepreneur in Kankakee, Ill., pocketed about $45 million in profit when he sold his employee-leasing business, T.T.C. Illinois Inc., to his employees in July 1995. How big was his capital gains tax? Exactly zero, thanks to an obscure provision of the tax code called Section 1042, enacted in 1984.
The same tax break was used several times in the late 1980's by the Wesray Capital Corporation, an investment partnership that included the former Treasury Secretary William E. Simon, to quickly shelter its profits. Among those profits was a $700 million gain on the sale of the Avis car-rental agency to that company's employees in 1987, less than two years after Wesray bought it.
The Section 1042 tax break is straightforward: The owner of a private business who sells at least 30 percent, and as much as 100 percent, of that business to an employee stock ownership plan, or ESOP, owes no capital gains taxes on the proceeds, as long as he reinvests them in other domestic corporate securities and does not sell those securities during his lifetime.
In 1989, apparently in response to quick-flipped deals like Wesray's, Congress added one more string: the seller must have owned the business for at least three years.
But the tax break still worked like a charm for Mr. Hunt, the Kankakee multimillionaire. "It is the perfect exit strategy in a situation like ours," said Don Ciaccio, T.T.C.'s chief financial officer. "The owner wanted out but he had certain cash-flow needs. We looked at a couple of potential buyers, but he'd have had to pay the capital gains tax, and it just wouldn't have worked."
Francois de Vissher, the president of De Vissher & Company in Greenwich, Conn., a financial adviser and investment banker, said of the ESOP-sale strategy, "Economically, it is a fabulous transaction."
Congress hoped that the tax break would encourage the formation of ESOP's, but even companies that formed ESOP's before 1984 can benefit from it.
Wagner, Hohnes & Inglis, an 85-person engineering concern in Mount Holly, N.J., formed its ESOP in 1976 to help attract and retain highly skilled employees, its co-founder, Philip Inglis, said. But today, that ESOP is also giving the founders a way to cash out without paying capital gains taxes.
Blair Wagner and Murray Hohnes, who started the company 32 years ago in Mr. Hohnes's garage, have sold their stakes to the ESOP and retired. Mr. Inglis, who joined the company 30 years ago, said he would sell part of his stake to the ESOP this year. And Don Cummings, the president, and other executive shareholders will also be able to sell their stakes to the ESOP when they are ready to retire.
The company, with annual revenue of about $5 million, is still fairly typical of the businesses most likely to use the ESOP tax break, said James H. Willis, an ESOP-savvy investment adviser in Charlottesville, Va. To him, the arcane world of tax-driven ESOP deals "isn't Wall Street's kind of market."
Do not bet on that, said James R. Zukin, a partner in Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, a big investment banking firm in Los Angeles and the largest ESOP adviser in the country. "As a firm, we made a decision two years ago to put a lot more resources into ESOP's, and it has paid off in spades," he said. "We are hitting the hide off the ball."
The firm is doing twice the number of ESOP deals it did two years ago, some of them as large as $250 million, he said. Besides advising company owners on how to sell to an ESOP, the firm also arranges financing and sometimes invests in the company along with the new ESOP. Indeed, last year, the firm set up a $188 million fund that invests only in ESOP purchases.
Duff & Phelps and other firms are also competing for ESOP deals, and Goldman, Sachs & Company, Paine Webber and Morgan Stanley & Company all have units catering to the special reinvestment needs of business owners who have sold to an ESOP. Among their offerings are unusual investments like 60-year American corporate bonds known as ESOP notes.
Wall Street's growing enthusiasm for ESOP's is driven both by recent history and by baby boom demographics.
Dozens of once-public American corporations were converted to private ownership in the leveraged-buyout boom of the 1980's, Mr. Zukin explained. "And every single one of them -- where the shareholder is an individual, a trust or a partnership" -- is eligible for a tax-free sale to an ESOP, he said.
Meanwhile, entrepreneurs in the baby boom generation are moving closer to retirement, noted Corey Rosen, executive director of the National Center for Employee Ownership in Oakland, Calif. As a result, he said, "I would expect that about 10 years from now there will be a big increase in the number of businesses using this" as an exit strategy.
 
Real Estate
Old Loopholes, New and Improved
John J. Cali was just a teen-ager when he and his younger brother, Angelo, moved east from his native Colorado to a new home in New Jersey. John's first friend was a classmate, Edward Leshowitz, who took the 14-year-old under his wing.
That was 60 years ago, and today the Cali brothers and Mr. Leshowitz are the senior statesmen of the Cali Realty Corporation, a commercial real estate empire valued at more than $1 billion.
They are also the beneficiaries of a new ownership arrangement that gave them many of the advantages of selling their stake in that empire without exposing them to the capital gains tax. This arrangement is called an umbrella partnership real estate investment trust, known simply as an upreit.
While the ESOP tax break exists simply because Congress created it, the upreit required some financial engineering. Accountants and lawyers welded together two older tax loopholes to create a new one that better serves modern developers like the Calis.
One of those time-tested tax breaks is found in Section 1031 of the tax code, which allows taxpayers to swap one property for a substantially similar property without incurring a capital gains tax. These deals are called 1031 swaps or, more commonly, like-kind transactions.
The other loophole is the tax code's Section 721, which allows partners to transfer property to their own partnerships without triggering a capital gains tax.
Both tax breaks are deeply rooted in American tradition. "Partnership" is often a code word for "small family business," a phrase that evokes protective impulses among lawmakers. As for Section 1031, ask big-city tax lawyers about its origin and many will repeat the example of two cash-poor farmers who need to swap one field for another but cannot afford the taxes an outright sale would create.
By swapping one property for another of at least equal value, developers can endlessly defer the capital gains taxes they would have owed if they had simply sold the first property and bought the second. The only catch is that the swapped property must be "property held for investment or used in the course of a trade or business," not personal property or a family home.
In their simplest form, like-kind swaps have been common for years. One reason is that the tax code allows any kind of commercial real estate to be swapped for any other kind -- a Florida apartment building for a Nevada mining site, for example, or a Manhattan store for a Seattle pier. In 1990, when Congress considered narrowing that latitude as a way of raising revenue, real estate lobbyists successfully resisted.
In May 1991, new I.R.S. regulations cleared the way for more elaborate property swaps. Until then, middlemen who set up a swap ran the risk of being defined as the seller's agent, which could create a capital gains tax for the seller. The new rules established a "safe harbor" for such intermediaries, allowing them to expand their roles as long as they complied with the regulations, said Howard Levine, a lawyer with Roberts & Holland in Washington. Today, Cushman & Wakefield and the real estate division of Merrill Lynch are among the giant firms that do a hefty business matching property swappers around the country.
The upreit gives major real estate investors an even better way to avoid capital gains taxes because it offers two other advantages of a sale: a more diverse portfolio and easier access to ready cash. Introduced in 1992, the upreit combines a traditional real estate investment trust, the property-market version of a mutual fund, with a traditional operating partnership. The union produces a new partnership, the umbrella partnership.
Without inviting a tax bite, a developer can swap his property to the umbrella partnership. The real estate investment trust, or REIT, which is also a partner in the umbrella partnership, can sell shares to the public to raise cash, which the partnership can use to refurbish shabby buildings or buy new ones. This lets the original owner diversify his portfolio and generates additional rental income to cover partnership dividends.
John R. Cali, who is Angelo Cali's son and the chief administrative officer of Cali Realty, said the new arrangement had allowed the company to acquire new properties more easily because the upreit could swap its partnership shares, tax-free, for buildings owned by other developers who wanted to sell but who would face a big tax bite if they sold for cash.
Now that their upreit is up and running, the senior Cali brothers can also borrow against their partnership shares to raise money for other ventures, the young Mr. Cali said, or they can simply collect their growing cash dividends. As long as they do not convert their shares into the more marketable publicly traded shares of their affiliated REIT during their lifetime, they will owe no capital gains taxes on the property they contributed to the upreit.
"The structure is well accepted," said Lawrence S. Kaplan, a tax partner at the Ernst & Young/Kenneth Leventhal Real Estate Group in New York and a developer of the upreit format. Most of the real estate investment trusts formed in the last four years are upreits, he said, "and those that aren't are very sorry they're not."
Of the 300 real estate investment trusts now trading in the public market, 70 are upreits, according to figures compiled by the National Association of REIT's in Washington. Together, these upreits have a market value of $32.5 billion.
Although real estate investors -- from the Calis to Sam Zell, the Chicago financier -- have made the most use of Section 1031, tax lawyers have done like-kind swaps for other assets as well, including automobile fleets and manufacturing equipment.
A few even report using the technique to help wealthy clients swap museum-quality art or precious collectibles tax-free -- although that "pushes the envelope" by stretching the definition of "investment property," one tax lawyer said.
"People who swap art and are not picked up by the I.R.S. are simply lucky," said Eugene L. Vogel, a partner and chairman of the tax practice at Rosenman & Colin in Manhattan, which advises the Art Dealers Association of America. "There is just a narrow band of people who could squeeze it in -- if you take the position that you're holding the art for investment purposes, and can show that you've been very active both buying and selling." It would help, he added, if the swapped art had been kept in a vault rather than in a Fifth Avenue penthouse.
Still, lawyers for several art auction houses said privately that they had helped arrange such swaps for major works of contemporary art, worth $1 million or more, in recent years. "Usually it is seller-driven, especially by art collectors who are also real estate developers," one lawyer who has worked in the auction field said. "A number of sophisticated taxpayers feel that the worst that can happen is the I.R.S. will disallow it, and maybe they have a penalty and some interest to pay."
 
Securities
Get Rid of the Risk, But Not the Stock
Until three years ago, the Autotote Corporation was better known to people who speculated at the race track than to those who wagered on Wall Street. Its computerized wagering equipment is used at tracks, casinos and betting parlors. But with 1992 revenues of less than $43 million, the company was a dark horse by stock market standards.
In 1993, however, the company's revenue nearly doubled and Autotote's shares began to climb. Each gain added to the paper profits of the company's chairman and chief executive, A. Lorne Weil. By March 1994, his 800,000 shares of Autotote stock were worth more than $23 million, seven times their value just two years earlier.
By selling some of those shares, Mr. Weil could have locked in his profits and invested the cash in something less risky, but he would have faced a big tax bill. So he did not sell his stock -- he "swapped" it to the Bankers Trust Company, and thus earned a spot in Wall Street history.
The equity swap, which one leading tax lawyer described as "the first genuinely new financial product of the last 50 years," gave Mr. Weil all of the practical effects of selling his stock, but did not produce a penny of capital gains taxes for the Government.
Detailed reports that Mr. Weil, as a company officer, was required to file with Federal securities regulators gave the public its first look at an equity swap.
Here is how it works: Mr. Weil surrendered to Bankers Trust all the economic rewards and risks of owning 500,000 shares of his Autotote stock, worth about $13.5 million at the time, but he kept legal title to the shares. The bank gets any dividends paid on the stock and reaps any gain in the stock's price during the five-year term of the swap. In return, Bankers Trust promised to pay Mr. Weil an amount equal to what he could have earned on an alternative $13.5 million investment, minus the bank's fee. The bank further promised to reimburse Mr. Weil for any decline in the stock's price over the term of the swap, a risky obligation that the bank no doubt covered through a hedging strategy of its own.
The swap has proved well timed for Mr. Weil; his 500,000 Autotote shares are worth less than $700,000 today.
Mr. Weil's transaction was not a rare case, to judge from a full-page advertisement Bankers Trust placed in Barron's magazine in July 1994. "Too much money in just one stock?" the bank asked. "Get rid of the risk, not the stock," it answered, explaining that the bank could help any investor with at least $2 million in a single company's stock to "diversify your risk -- without selling the stock. Without owing capital gains taxes. And without sacrificing your voting rights." These were deals the bank "regularly puts together," the advertisement added.
By then, the Government was beginning to pay attention, and Treasury officials publicly questioned whether such swaps should escape taxation. But no formal action was taken and, as the stock market continued to soar, the Wall Street wizards continued to flourish in the swap market.
 
The Final Straw?
Political Scrutiny For Lauder Deal
What apparently galvanized the Clinton Administration into action was the unusual tax gambit used by Estee Lauder and her son Ronald Lauder as part of the deal in which their cosmetics empire was sold to the public in late 1995.
Mrs. Lauder, the company's elderly founder, and Ronald Lauder together sold 13.8 million shares in the family business. But instead of selling their shares directly to the public, they borrowed an identical number of shares from relatives and family trust accounts. Then they sold those borrowed shares, an approach that allowed them to avoid as much as $95 million in Federal capital gains taxes, not counting state taxes that might be due.
This maneuver is based on a time-tested technique known as selling short against the box. An investor who wants to lock in a profit on his shares simply borrows an identical number of shares from his broker and sells them -- a practice called selling short.
The investor is no longer affected if the stock price goes down, because he has his profit, or if it goes up, because he already has the shares he needs to replace the borrowed stock. But under the tax code's definitions, the investor still owns the original shares and no taxes are owed.
In theory, any investor can use this technique. But ordinary investors are not allowed by their brokers to withdraw the proceeds from their short sales until they have returned the shares they borrowed -- at which point they owe taxes on their profits. So most middle-income investors tend to use the technique only to defer taxes for a year or two.
But in recent years, Wall Street firms have given this technique new appeal by allowing their wealthiest clients to immediately withdraw their short-sale profits, in the form of a very inexpensive loan. Thus, a wealthy investor can lock in his profit and raise cash -- just as if he had sold his stock -- without ever having to sell during his lifetime.
On the heels of the Lauder transaction, the Clinton Administration proposed tax code amendments that would eliminate the "short against the box" as a tax-avoidance strategy. The proposals were submitted last March and were originally designed to go into effect retroactively. That halted the short-against-the-box maneuver for a few weeks, until Republican Congressional leaders, who gave the proposals an unenthusiastic reception, assured Wall Street that no retroactive changes would be enacted.
Since then, the business of shorting against the box has boomed.
 
The Swap Fund
A Tax Break Back From the Dead
Also booming is a tax gimmick the Government thought it had killed almost 30 years ago -- the swap fund.
Also known as an exchange fund or a diversification fund, a swap fund uses partnership tax breaks to help wealthy investors diversify their assets without paying capital gains taxes. The theory is simple: Partners can swap property tax-free into a partnership in exchange for partnership shares. So could they not also swap securities tax-free into a partnership, so that each contributing investor could own shares in a diversified portfolio without creating a tax bill?
The Government quashed the swap-fund fad in the late 1960's by barring tax-free treatment of swaps made with any partnership that had 80 percent or more of its assets invested in "readily marketable" securities.
But what if only 79 percent of the assets were readily marketable and the rest were not? In the last two years, private swap funds from a number of major Wall Street institutions -- the Bessemer Trust Companies, Goldman, Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Smith Barney -- have squeezed through that loophole.
Custom Diversified Fund Management, an investment adviser in San Francisco, has even created an entire family of swap funds, all aimed at people who "need to diversify their portfolios but would face severe tax consequences from selling even a portion of their shares," as a private sales brochure puts it.
The drawbacks of these reborn swap funds: The taxes fall due if the fund participant sells out during his lifetime. And, tax lawyers say, keeping assets tied up in illiquid investments is expensive -- though not as expensive as the tax bills that fund participants are trying to avoid.
 
The Cutting Edge
'Heads, I Win; Tails, You Lose'
Anyone who thinks that Wall Street's elaborate tax-repellents are employed only by a handful of celebrity taxpayers should consider the $223 million deal that Salomon Brothers, the Wall Street investment firm, arranged a few weeks ago.
The firm's client was the staid Western Southern Life Insurance Company in Cincinnati, which owns shares of Cincinnati Bell that were worth a lot more than the insurance company had paid for them. If the company had tried to lock in that fat profit by selling the stock, it would have faced a hefty capital gains tax.
To solve that problem, Salomon Brothers issued a new form of exchangeable notes indirectly backed by the insurance company's Cincinnati Bell shares, then sent on a substantial part of the note proceeds to Western Southern, all for a fee, of course. The deal allowed Western Southern to lock in its profit and free up low-cost cash to invest elsewhere, just as if it had sold the stock, but without incurring any taxes.
Unlike a swap or a Lauder-style deal, this tactic allows sellers to keep some of the potential for profit if the stock rises even as they shed the risk of a drop in price -- a "heads, I win; tails, you lose" transaction conducted beyond the reach of the tax collector.
Salomon, which originated the exchangeable-note concept in June 1993, calls its product a DECS note -- for debt exchangeable into common stock. Merrill Lynch and Goldman, Sachs offer similar products under different names -- Strypes and ACES, respectively.
Here's how the Western Southern deal worked: Salomon Brothers sold notes to the public and made most of the proceeds available to its client, Western Southern, through a private transaction "whose terms mirror the terms of the DECS sold to the public," said Anand S. Iyer, director of global convertible product analysis at Salomon. Each note sold for roughly the same price as one share of Cincinnati Bell. The notes pay a fixed rate of interest and give the noteholder a share of any future increase in the stock price. If the stock price falls, the noteholder bears all of the loss, which will be reflected in a lower resale price of the note.
When the notes mature, Western Southern can repay its obligation to Salomon with cash or with its Cincinnati Bell stock, either of which Salomon can use to cover what it owes to noteholders. If it pays in cash, no taxes will be owed, because legal ownership of the shares will have remained with Western Southern. In the meantime, it had the use of most of the cash raised from the note sale, free of capital gains taxes.
Because they offer a cheap way to borrow that does not worry credit-rating agencies, most exchangeable-note deals in the last three years have been done on behalf of corporate taxpayers, including Times Mirror and American Express.
But Eli Broad's deal last June marked the first public use of this remarkable product by an individual taxpayer. The deal, tailored like the Western Southern deal, locked in Mr. Broad's profit on a block of SunAmerica stock worth roughly $194 million, just as if he had sold the shares. Although he had shed any risk of loss, Mr. Broad kept the right to any further gains after the stock price had risen 35 percent, and he did not hand over legal title to his shares. Thus, he owed no capital gains taxes.
Mr. Broad's innovative deal has tax lawyers talking. "Actually, I'm looking at a bunch of those products now," said Steven M. Surdell, a partner in the Chicago firm of Jenner & Block. "I have a client who is an Eli Broad kind of guy, and an investment bank has given him a brochure about doing this."
 
The Debate
Competing Proposals For a Better System
Wall Street's willingness to cater to wealthy, tax-averse clients is as old as the capital gains tax itself, but the infrastructure that supports the creation of these high-technology strategies is much newer.
The equity swap borrows heavily from the mathematics developed by global bankers in the creation of "interest rate swaps" barely a decade ago. As active markets have developed for these and other esoteric instruments, commonly called derivatives, Wall Street has been able to use those markets to measure and hedge the risks of doing these transactions for wealthy clients. All this is the daily routine of squadrons of so-called rocket scientists -- the mathematicians and software engineers Wall Street has recruited from academia in recent years to find new ways to harness the potential of new software and new markets.
Taken together, these changes allow Wall Street to separate the various attributes that once were knotted into a single security. A security that fluctuates in price but pays a steady dividend can be cut into a fluctuating-price slice and a steady-dividend slice; a bond that pays principal and interest can be cleaved into a principal-paying chunk and an interest-paying chunk. And a stock that has both economic value and voting rights can be teased apart, so that the voting rights stay with the legal owner while the economic benefits flow to others.
"In a world where the distinctions between financial instruments are blurred, or where different instruments are combined in new ways, the practitioners of financial engineering will always be a step -- or, more likely, a mile -- ahead of the regulators," said Mr. Gale, the Brookings economist. "Because of all these instruments that are becoming available, the effective capital gains tax rate is fairly low among the very high-income groups."
Some critics say that Wall Street's ingenuity proves the case for scrapping the tax or at least modifying it. Under the current system, "if you're rich enough, you can hire the entrepreneurial accountant or the entrepreneurial guy at Salomon Brothers who thinks these things up," said Theodore Forstmann, chairman of Forstmann Little & Company and a member of the National Commission on Economic Growth and Tax Reform, commissioned by Republican Congressional leaders to recommend ways to overhaul the tax system. "What I would like is a system that put these guys out of business." At a minimum, he said, the Government should tax only inflation-adjusted profits.
The political debate about the capital gains tax has been devoted mostly to arguments over whether capital gains should be taxed at all, and, if so, how much. Privately, some who believe that capital gains taxes stifle the economy by reducing incentives for entrepreneurs suggest that the country may benefit from techniques that allow such people to escape taxation.
Until the Clinton proposals were introduced early this year, little attention had been paid to whether the existing tax could be levied more fairly.
The Administration's proposals do aim to make it harder for wealthy taxpayers to avoid capital gains taxes, although some less affluent investors would be affected as well. "I think it is clear there are things that are permissible now that should not be," said Lawrence H. Summers, Deputy Treasury Secretary. "What are functionally capital gains realizations should be taxed."
Specifically, the Administration has proposed eliminating the rule that allows investors to identify which specific shares of stock are being sold in each transaction, one of the rules that helps middle-income investors save on capital gains taxes. Using this rule, an investor who paid escalating prices for a company's stock over time can specify that only the most expensive shares were sold, which reduces the capital gain subject to taxation. The new rule would require investors who sold their entire stake in a company to use their average cost; if they sold only part of their stake, they would be deemed to have sold the first shares they had bought.
The Administration has also proposed defining as a taxable sale any transaction that "substantially eliminates risk of loss and opportunity for gain" on the underlying security. This rule would eliminate the short against the box and at least some equity swaps, but its impact is uncertain because it does not specify how much risk and opportunity must be retained by an investor to avoid making a sale.
The Treasury estimates that these two proposals would raise $4.5 billion in new revenues over the next five years; Congressional estimates are half that amount.
But many tax experts say the Clinton proposals give Wall Street a lot of wiggle room. Transactions like the one used by Mr. Broad are expected to survive, and the tax breaks for ESOP sales, upreits and the traditional real estate swaps are not even on the policy makers' radar. "And, undoubtedly, Wall Street will soon come up with something new," said Mr. Willens, the Lehman Brothers executive.
Treasury officials acknowledge that the current proposals would be challenging to enforce and might not curb Wall Street's latest techniques. The proposals are a good start, Mr. Summers said, but "the lines are difficult to draw between hedging and transferring ownership." He added, "That's why the area has such complexity."
Mr. Willens of Lehman Brothers agreed that tougher, clearer definitions of a sale were probably the only way the Government could deal with the challenge of Wall Street's ingenuity. "Old-fashioned notions of sale are totally inappropriate for the world we live in today," he said. "You've got to look behind the niceties of language to the substance of what's happening. Have you surrendered the benefits and burdens of ownership? If the answer is yes, you have probably sold it and you should probably pay taxes."
In any case, the Administration's ideas face a tough fight in Congress, where the controlling Republicans say they are still firmly committed to lowering the capital gains rate for top-bracket taxpayers to 19.8 percent from 28 percent.
Administration advisers agree that the loophole-closing steps will probably be adopted only as part of a bipartisan compromise that also lowers the current tax rate and perhaps expands the tax break for selling homes.
 
The Beat Goes On
The Latest Techniques Draw a Big Crowd
Last Tuesday morning, more than 200 people jammed a banquet room at the Yale Club on Vanderbilt Avenue in Manhattan to hear specialists from Bankers Trust discuss the latest techniques for raising cash and diversifying assets without incurring capital gains taxes.
One increasingly popular approach with investors who own a lot of a single stock, said Steve Gordon of Bankers Trust, is borrowing against a hedged position -- sometimes called a zero-cost collar with debt attached. A big investor in the XYZ Corporation, for example, sets up a hedge that consists of two options contracts on XYZ stock. One protects him from a drop in the stock's price; the other lets him keep a bit of any price increase. Then Bankers Trust will lend him up to 90 percent of the value of those XYZ shares.
The bankers also reviewed equity swaps, shorts against the box and various other strategies. Although Congress might tinker with some of them next year, one speaker said, wealthy taxpayers still have "a wonderful window of opportunity" to use those techniques now.
Moreover, the bank offered other ideas -- "customized advanced techniques" -- that could be tailored to the needs of different clients. "If you want to stay state of the art," Mr. Gordon said, "you have to continually develop new products."
These strategies differ, the banker told the crowd, but each allows wealthy taxpayers to achieve that coveted objective: the deferral of capital gains taxes, optimally for as long as it takes to avoid those taxes entirely.
"You can have your cake," he said with a smile, "and eat it, too."
 
Christopher Drew participated in the preparation of this article, a continuation of a series that included articles on deferred compensation, which appeared on Oct. 13 and 14.
 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 1996, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about Wall Street strategies for minimizing capital gains tax liability misspelled the surname of a financial adviser who was quoted on the strategy of selling a business to an employee stock ownership plan. He is Francois de Visscher, not de Vissher.

GRAPHIC: Photos/Charts: "An Escape For Business Owners"
 
Owners of private business can avoid the capital gains tax by selling the company to their employees, as long as they put the proceeds in certain investments, like ESOP notes, that Wall Street is eager to provide. "Economically, it a fabulous transaction," said Francois de Vissher, a financial adviser and investment banker.
 
PHILIP INGLIS AND DON CUMMINGS
Wagner, Hohnes & Inglis
Wagner, Hones & Inglis, an engineering firm in Mount Holly, N.J., formed an employee stock ownership plan 20 years ago to help retain talented employees. But now that play is also giving the owners, including Philip Inglis, left, and Don Cummings, a way to cash out without paying capital gains taxes. (Laura Pedrick for the New York Times)
 
WILLIAM SIMON
Wesray Capital
An investment partnership including former Treasury Secretary William E. Simon sold the Avis car-rental agency and other companies to their employees, allowing the partners to avoid capital gains taxes. (pg. 44)
 
"An Escape For Big Stockholders"
Investors with large blocks of stock in a company can use one of several exotic strategies to lock in profits on that stock and raise cash for other kinds of investments without actually selling the shares, which would create a tax bill.
 
ELI BROAD
SunAmerica
Mr. Broad used some of his stock in SunAmerica as unofficial collateral for a new form of security issued by Merrill Lynch, which then passed much of the proceeds from that issue back to Mr. Broad. (Mojdan B. Azimi for The New York Times)
 
A. LORNE WEIL
Autotote
Mr. Weil "swapped" shares in his company, Autotote, to Bankers Trust in return for the income he could have earned on a less risky investment.
 
RONALD LAUDER
Estee Lauder
Instead of selling shares in the family business directly to the public, Mr. Lauder and his mother borrowed an identical number of shares and sold them, avoiding as much as $95 million in Federal capital gains taxes alone.
 
"An Escape For Property Owners"
Real estate owners can sway properties without incurring the capital gains tax required when a sale is made. This allows them to diversify their holdings and raise cash for other purposes.
 
CALI BROTHERS
Cali Realty Corporation
The Cali family -- from left, Angelo R. Cali, John R. Cali, Brant Cali and John J Cali -- built a New Jersey commercial real estate empire that benefits from an increasingly popular arrangement called an umbrella partnership real estate investment trust. (Julio Ibarra for The New York Times) (pg. 45)
 
Graphs: "No Longer Just A Bill for the Rich"
For many middle-income taxpayers, the only source of capital gains is profits on mutual funds. Lately, those taxpayers' gains have shot up, while gains reported by the typically wealthier taxpayers who profited from all kinds of assets stagnated. (Source: I.R.S.) (pg. 1)
 
"Where Gains Come From...And Who Get Them" show sources of capital gains reported by individuals and their income categories, 1993. (Sources: Congressional Budget Office; Internal Revenue Service)
 
"One Wall Street Way To Reinvest Tax-Free" shows total amount of ESOP notes outstanding, 1987-1995. (Source: Securities Data Company) (pg. 44)
 
"Squeezing Cash From Equities" shows new issuance of DECS (debt exchangeable into common stock) securites, 1993-96. (Source: Salomon Brothers)
 
"An Umbrella to Shelter Property Profits" shows the total market value of upreits (umbrella partnership real estate investment trust), 1992-96. (Source: National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts) (pg. 45)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES TAXES & TAXATION (94%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BONDS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); TAX FRAUD (72%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; NORRIS, FLOYD; BROAD, ELI; SIMON, WILLIAM E; LAUDER, RONALD S ELI BROAD (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1997



36 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: The View From: Torrington;
What's to Be Done About John Brown?

BYLINE: By DAVID HOWARD

 BODY:
EDWARD DeLISLE thinks it's unconscionable that Torrington doesn't do more to memorialize its most famous native son, John Brown. After all, the abolitionist's martyrdom on a Virginia gallows was the kindling that ignited the Civil War and eventually ended slavery. It's a lost opportunity, said Mr. DeLisle, who lives about a mile from Brown's birthplace.
John Pelchat, however, thinks Torrington pays quite enough homage to Brown: his name is on highway exit signs, city vehicles, even the city seal. In fact, Mr. Pelchat, the local grade-school principal, said history has probably been too kind to a man who led murderous raids on pro-slavery settlers in Kansas and Virginia. "I think the things he did . . . should probably be subject to more scrutiny," Mr. Pelchat said. 
 This, in short, is the conundrum that is John Brown's troubled legacy, and probably nowhere does it gnaw at a town's psyche more. Is historical acknowledgment tantamount to an endorsement of Brown's violent means? Residents have openly wrestled with that question for years.
Ernest F. Ceder, the municipal historian, said the debate sometimes has ugly undercurrents. Some residents have told him they don't want Torrington attracting black visitors with expansive John Brown exhibits, Mr. Ceder said. On one trip to Brown's birthplace with a group of visitors, Mr. Ceder found human excrement on the site.
Mr. Ceder has drawn clear lines of demarcation on the issue. "I say if you're anti-John Brown, you're taking the part of the racists or the slavers, that's how strongly I feel about it," he said.
But Mayor Mary Jane Gryniuk of Torrington, asked about Brown's standing, said, 'There are a lot of differences of opinion out there as to whether he was a true abolitionist or just a rabble-rouser.'
Torrington's anti-Brown faction -- led, ironically, by a group named for him -- has held the upper hand recently. The John Brown Association, which controls the property on which Brown was born, has declined to pursue several proposals over the last 20 years to enhance the site.
There has been little activity at the Brown site since the family farmhouse burned to the ground in 1918. Trees have sprouted over the dormant farmland in the hills of west Torrington, and the area's sparse development makes John Brown Road one of the city's most desolate streets. A single marker stands vigil on the sod that has grown over the foundation.
Former Mayor Delia R. Donne last year asked the association to consider building a replica of the homestead. But the group never discussed the plan, and Mrs. Donne lost a bid for re-election last fall. Association president Joseph E. Cravanzola said the issue appears to have run its course.
The rebuffs have not deterred Brown's supporters, who insist the birthplace could be a valuable educational and economic tool. Several area residents, led by Connecticut's former tourism director, say they will try again this fall to resurrect plans for a Brown museum.
Barnett D. Laschever, a former state tourism director and co-author of "Connecticut: An Explorer's Guide," said he will begin pushing the concept of an abolitionist museum on the Brown site. Such an exhibit would prop up the city's flagging tourist trade and serve as an educational tool, he said. "Torrington is looking, since it lost its manufacturing, to widen the tax base and position itself as a tourist attraction," Mr. Laschever said. "If you had a museum like that, it would be a steady draw."
Brown, a Calvinist grounded in strict Old Testament dogma, believed God had chosen him to purge the sin of bondage from American soil. After years of quixotic speechmaking, he set aside the polemics and armed himself, believing bloodshed was the only way to accomplish his mission. His efforts climaxed in October of 1859, when he led 21 men into Harper's Ferry, Va. (now West Virginia), and seized an armory with the intention of distributing weapons among slaves to allow them to fight for their freedom.
Cavalry troops overwhelmed the small band within 36 hours, and Brown was quickly convicted of treason. But his eloquent courtroom speeches galvanized the North and sent Southern plantation owners into a rage. Confederates fired the first secessionist cannons on Charleston, S.C., less than 18 months later.
Interest in the Torrington site crops up frequently. Mr. DeLisle, a captain in the Torrington Fire Department, said motorists frequently stop at the firehouse to ask directions.
And more are likely to come. The birthplace was listed on the recently established Freedom Trail, a collection of Connecticut landmarks that trace African-Americans' heritage and struggle for freedom.
Torrington's present attractions -- primarily the Warner Theater and the Nutmeg Conservatory -- offer only sporadic incentives to visit, Mr. Laschever said.
By contrast, Brown's appeal is timeless. Harper's Ferry National Park draws about 500,000 visitors a year, said Marsha Starkey, the park's spokeswoman. Brown still evokes very strong feelings, Ms. Starkey said, his controversial nature not diminished over a century.
About 55,000 visited the abolitionist's grave at the John Brown Farm in North Elba, N.Y., during the 1995 season, which runs from May through October, said Ed Cotter, who retired this fall after 32 years as superintendent. "If you can get that many people way up in the woods, you ought to be able to get that many here, and more," Mr. Laschever said.
Better still, a museum would provide a context for Brown's seemingly radical tirades, supporters said. Too many visitors to Brown's farm in the Adirondacks judge him without understanding the era, Mr. Cotter said. The events went along with the time, he said, and they should be left there, not projected into the 20th century.
That seems to remain the crux of the dispute in Torrington. In the 1980's, the Board of Education balked at a proposal by a class of talented and gifted students to re-name a school for Mr. Brown. Asked why, then-chairwoman Mary Ann O'Sullivan said: "Osawatomie," referring to Brown's deadly activities in Kansas, the site of many pre-Civil War skirmishes between pro- and anti-slavery forces.
Mr. Ceder bristles at such comments. What about Hiroshima? What about George Washington when it comes to war atrocities? Bleeding Kansas was an atrocity, and in most cases, the pro-slavery groups won. "Who determines who was crazy in 1859?" he asked.
For all the discussion, many residents admit they don't know a lot about Brown's life. Mrs. Gryniuk visited the Brown birthplace with her father when she was a child in the 1950's, and recalls staring in awe at three large John Brown murals in the city's post office. But she admitted to not having a clear understanding of what Brown did.
What Mrs. Gryniuk can say for sure is if residents want a Brown museum, they'll have to raise their own money. The city -- faced with crumbling streets, failed drainage systems and other modern-day worries -- won't chip in. "We just don't have that luxury," she said.
Mr. Laschever, who launched several such initiatives during his 17 years as tourism director, thinks money can be had from any number of private and governmental sources. He said he plans to start by appealing the case to various civic groups this fall. "I want to arouse their interest," he said, evoking Browns crusading efforts. "Stimulate them to action."

GRAPHIC: Photos John Brown, fiery abolitionist, dominates the scene at the Torrington post office, left. Ernest Ceder, a historian, above, at the site of Brown's birth. (Photographs by Helen Neafsey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MAYORS (88%); SLAVERY (78%); HISTORY (77%); RACE & RACISM (72%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (55%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



37 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: FILM VIEW;
When One Could Live By One's Wit

BYLINE: By Jesse Green; Jesse Green, an essayist, is the author of the novel "O Beautiful."

 BODY:
IN A WORLD WITHOUT STANDARDS OF CONDUCT, the only humiliation an ambitious man may still manage to achieve is intellectual. I should know: while playing a party game called Famous Authors, in the company of some authors who might almost qualify and others who desperately wished to, I loudly and confidently identified a photograph of E. M. Forster as Gertrude Stein. To this day, whenever I see either name in print, the hot blush of wounded vanity, not to mention the explosive laughter of the litterateurs in attendance, rushes back to me from that Upper West Side salon.
That the humiliation was abstract does not make my horror any less painful. But I did survive, which is more than you can say for some of the French aristocrats depicted in "Ridicule," which opened on Wednesday. Set at Versailles in 1783, six years before the Revolution, the film depicts a hothouse world in which wit, or the lack of it, may not only embarrass but kill. 
 If that theme could hardly be more French (and "Ridicule" will be France's official entry for next year's Academy Awards), the plot is classically American: a passionate idealist from the provinces travels to the capital to plead the cause of the common man; disillusioned and then seduced by the decadence he finds there, he regains his moral vigor with the help of a sensible yet bosomy woman. Call it Franc Capra. But unlike Mr. Smith or Mr. Deeds, Gregoire Ponceludon de Malavoy (Charles Berling) goes to town only to encounter a society whose currency is not so much cash as cleverness, where access to the King and the favors thus derived can be bought only with quips, repartee and facile double-entendres.
Happily, it isn't long before our bumpkin hero is beating the sophisticates at their own game; when a thin-lipped fop tells the conniving courtesan played by Fanny Ardant that Ponceludon is "smarter than he looks," Ponceludon immediately retorts, "Ah, that's where we differ."
Despite its ripe decor and overflowing bodices, a movie that culminates in a 10-minute contest of epigrams ("It's easier to die for a woman than to find one worth dying for") is a movie about a dry, cold world. And fascinating though it is, that world may prove a hostile one for many Americans to enter. As a matter of national character we tend to distrust wit (even leaving aside the ends to which it is used); we favor Nietzsche's definition of it as the "epitaph of an emotion" -- the fossil of feeling after feeling has been extinguished.
Instead, what American culture has excelled at, and embraced more readily, is humor, a different beast entirely, as even a cursory look at French movies that attempt to be funny demonstrates. Is there anything less comical than a French comedy? (Let us not even mention that Commander of the French Legion of Honor, Jerry Lewis.) And yet before we congratulate ourselves too heartily for the robustness of our comic heritage, we should look at a movie like "Ridicule" to see what gets lost in our belly laughs.
HUMOR IS BASED ON CHARACTER WHILE wit is abstract and formal, which is why we can say a chair is witty; we admire the way it plays with forms. A humorous chair, on the other hand, simply cannot be, though ridiculous ones are all too common. Where humor walks purposefully, wit is acrobatic; it soars with the calculated elegance of a suspension bridge. The greater the distance between the premise and the conclusion -- the more unexpected or paradoxical the payoff -- the greater the achievement.
"All women become like their mothers. That is their tragedy," wrote Oscar Wilde. "No man does. That's his."
To appreciate an epigram like that, the audience must quickly work out, and usually backward, what trajectory led from takeoff to landfall, and in so doing warp his mind to the exact curvature of the author's. As such, there is more than a hint of sadism in wit. Not surprisingly, the sting of the lash and the efficiency of the gesture have always made wit the preferred weapon for critical deflation; was there ever a book review more brutal than "This volume fills a much-needed gap"?
With its debts to mathematics and music, wit depends for its effect on an educated audience and shared assumptions. No wonder, in the Newtonian age that preceded the Revolution, wit ruled; no wonder, in our innumerate society, it is barely even a subject. The purely formal pleasures of the epigram are as alien, and suspect, as the intricate sublimations of the gavotte. Both are victims of a kind of sentimental puritanism, which holds that artistic production (especially if it's avant-garde) must be edifying, whereas wit is amoral and never concerned with improving the soul. The dizzying network of diversionary puns and fractured apothegms that electrifies "The Importance of Being Earnest" in effect undermines the apparent meaning of the title and suggests an alternate universe in which the only truly important thing is formal brilliance.
Wilde was not delivering a tract on honesty or even dishonesty but on the dullness of tracts altogether. "On an occasion of this kind it becomes more than a moral duty to speak one's mind," he writes at the climax of the play. "It becomes a pleasure."
Compared with Wilde, compared with the French court as depicted in "Ridicule," compared with the flawless diamonds of inconsequence mined by that great American wit S. J. Perelman ("No Starch in the Dhoti, s'Il Vous Plait"), American popular culture is largely heart-bound and brain-free. Every sitcom, however funny, teaches its kindergarten lesson; even a supposed hothead like Oliver Stone turns out to be a didact and thus a bore.
We are at wit's end, and fair enough. Where pornography is rape, wit must be, too, for wit is intellectual pornography, stimulating for the sake of stimulation -- a formula that strikes us as unforgivably effete in a democratic culture. Wit as a category of imaginative activity is scarcely more reputable than pulling wings off flies, the more so because it seems to spring up in enclaves inaccessible to all but the wellborn. And it's true, as "Ridicule" demonstrates, that wit has often been used as the sharpest arrow in the quiver of oppression; lack of wit is one of the things that keeps outsiders outside.
Still, it must be remembered that the greatest wits -- Wilde, Perelman, the fictional Ponceludon -- were themselves outsiders; what's really threatening about wit is that it undermines the weepy notion of underdog by leveling the moral battlefield. And that's not funny.
If humor makes us laugh, wit makes us gasp. In that sense, "Ridicule" is as humorous as a beheading -- which is the very fate in store for many of the dramatis personae. But if wit is used here to demonstrate the moral vacuity of the aristocracy, Americans watching it should not feel that they have been spared. The guillotine is but one bad fate among many, and where comedy is concerned, sharp blades may be preferable to dull ones.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Isabelle Petit-Jacques and Charles Berling in "Ridicule"--A world in which wit may not only sting but kill. (Catherine Cabrol/Miramax)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: RIDICULE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; COMEDY AND HUMOR; REVIEWS FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); 

PERSON: GREEN, JESSE

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996



38 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Which Side Are We On?

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

 BODY:
A Communist tyrant, humiliated in elections, annuls the results. When huge crowds demonstrate against his corrupt rule, he silences press and television coverage of the protests. And through the crisis no senior official of the United States Government deplores the tyrant's suppression of democracy and freedom.
That is the strange record of the Clinton Administration's response to events in Serbia these last two weeks. As the Serbian President, Slobodan Milosevic, acted out the part of a shameless dictator, we heard not a word from President Clinton or his top national security officials. 
 Mr. Milosevic's cynical character as a leader had hardly been a secret. To secure his power, starting in 1991, he aroused the darkest emotions of Serbian nationalism and let loose the forces that ravaged Bosnia. Then, when that posture was no longer useful to him, he put on the image of a peacemaker and helped bring about the Dayton agreement on Bosnia.
But there was still something shockingly brazen in his abuses of the last two weeks. When an opposition coalition won municipal elections in 15 of Serbia's 18 largest cities, including Belgrade, he simply had courts cancel the results on the ground of unspecified "irregularities." People took to the streets day after day, as many as 100,000 in Belgrade.
Like all modern dictators, Mr. Milosevic has cemented his grip on power by control of the media. He used television to create fear and hate of Croats and Muslims when he sought to create a Greater Serbia by aggression. His party last year took control of Belgrade's leading newspaper, Borba, and television station, Studio B; they became Milosevic mouthpieces.
When protests mounted last week, television virtually ignored them. A news broadcaster on TV Serbia said "only a handful of provocateurs" were involved.
One independent newspaper, Blitz, did cover the protests. But the state press that prints it turned down a request to increase the press run from 100,000 copies a day to 240,000, instead cutting the run to 80,000.
A report by Chris Hedges in The New York Times last week showed how far Mr. Milosevic and his family will go to intimidate the press. Critical articles about his son, Marko, 22, a racing car driver, have been met by thuggery.
When a magazine published pictures of Marko at a discotheque called Madonna that he owns, the photographer was beaten up. Last month a Belgrade reporter, Milovan Brkic, wrote a story about Marko; the next day 15 policemen beat him and told him, Mr. Brkic said, "never to write such trash again."
The Hedges story brought out an aspect of the Milosevic regime that has had less attention than its inhumanity: its corruption. Mr. Milosevic grew up in a town 50 miles south of Belgrade, Pozarevac. So did three of his cabinet ministers, the heads of the air force and the supreme court, and the directors of the national theater and Yugoslav Airlines.
Pozarevac is invoked by the regime as an example of family values and happiness. In fact, it is a dreary town, its people embittered by the economic and moral ruin that Mr. Milosevic has brought on the whole country. A journalist there told Mr. Hedges: "We read about this mythical town of Pozarevac and then look around us. What we see is that our town, like our state, is ruled by gangsters."
Many Serbs now see their ruler plain. But his crude repression last week brought only this statement by a State Department spokesman: "We are urging that the decision to annul municipal elections be overturned by President Milosevic." Overturned by him? He did it!
The U.S. bows to this man who has ruined his country and brutalized others because Washington thinks he is needed to make the Dayton peace plan work. But Dayton is not working. And he has not helped to carry out its essential provisions for freedom of movement in Bosnia, return of refugees to their homes and arrest of those indicted for war crimes.
We cannot be sure that a post-Milosevic regime would be better. But America has its own values to mind. When the people of East European countries rebelled against their rulers, they used to wave American flags as a symbol of their ideals. In Belgrade last week, protesters burned an American flag in front of the U.S. Embassy. They saw the United States as a friend of their oppressor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CROATIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); AIR FORCES (70%); RIOTS (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (68%); CITIES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (61%); AUTO RACING (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



39 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
President vs. Press

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Here's a constructive suggestion to Erskine Bowles, new White House chief of staff, to help Bill Clinton be a better President in his second term: Bring back the regular, wide-open, televised news conference.
We have not seen much of this President in that formal format this year. Instead, he held interviews with outlets that had to be grateful for exclusives; exposed himself only briefly to questioning at photo ops; took questions at bill signings or announcements intended to focus on his preferred subject; and did disjointed Q-and-A's at joint appearances with visiting dignitaries. 
 Rarely did Clinton call a full-scale conference in the East Room, and that only to avert criticism of total abandonment of what had become a great tradition.
As a result of this neglect, the rustiness of both President and press was apparent in his post-election meeting with the press corps. The long-delayed session stretched to a full hour, encouraging the "two-part question with follow-up" by face-time hogs, and letting the underprepared President go rambling across fields of fuzziness.
That is because the mindset in the White House has been "How can I avoid responding to distracting questions and shape my answers to stay on message?"
But a new mindset is needed to meet the different requirement of the second term: to use regular questioning to assure the people he is (a) on top of the job, conversant with all subjects; (b) able to get across his positions by giving clear and often newsworthy answers to pertinent queries, and (c) shaking the impression of defensiveness and occasional testiness he now gives to what should be a respectfully adversarial tradition.
In the new mindset, he should turn to "The Black Book."
A regular news conference imposes a necessary policy discipline on a President and his entire administration. For a week before the scheduled meeting with the press, drawn up in vast cumbrous array, the press secretary and (usually) the speechwriters try to anticipate every question that might be asked.
That's the easy part. If a likely-question list were being prepared this week, it would include the obvious: Did Janet Reno save her job by refusing to ask for independent counsel? If Disney could stand up to Chinese commercial pressure on human rights, why not you? Why the delay on Secretary of State? Do you and Hillary disagree on her "formal role" in welfare unreform?
Then the less obvious: Why did you wait until after the election to stick it to Illinois and Ohio in favor of the Northeast on air-quality standards? Do you think it is fair to leave democratic Baltic states out of NATO expansion? And finally, questions about budget proposals, inflation deflators and tax trade-offs that call for extended homework.
With about 80 anticipated questions in hand (of which fewer than 20 will be asked) the hard part begins. A White House aide (in the Nixon years, it was usually Pat Buchanan, sometimes me) surveys the Administration for suggested answers.
At that point, the Government undergoes a paroxysm of coming to policy closure. An agency chief shouts at his bureaucracy: "The President is focusing on fire ants in Georgia!" and a draft answer to the problem is rushed over.
The editor of the Black Book cross-checks policy with O.M.B. and N.S.C., boils answers down to 90 seconds each, and the chief of staff hands it to the President. Sometimes it is the first time he is forced to decide an interagency dispute; sometimes he disagrees with the proposed answer and the White House staff is stunned to get the word.
Some Presidents pore over the Black Book at night, adding punch or humor or a fudge; others prefer it presented orally at a run-through the day before, as Ronald Reagan did. Even what insiders call "the phantom news conference" -- answers to the 60 questions not asked -- serves an organizing purpose.
Regularity counts. When he steps up to the lectern behind the seal at his monthly news conference, his Administration's ducks are in a row, the boss knows his stuff, the world press is amazed and the nation is better governed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BLACK BOOK (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%); BUDGETS (60%); AIR QUALITY (50%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); ERSKINE BOWLES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



40 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: The City's Temporary Windfall

 BODY:
This fall has been the first time in many years that New York City has not experienced a budget crisis, filled with warnings about the need for more cuts in services. Thanks to an uptick in the city's economy, which was propelled by the boom on Wall Street, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has been able to announce $450 million in unexpected tax revenues that can be used to buy new textbooks for schools and put the overall budget on a sounder footing. Mr. Giuliani is putting his windfall to good use. But he cannot afford to divert himself from the path of austerity he has been following.
With less than a year to go before the mayoral election, Mr. Giuliani's potential challengers are understandably suspicious that the last few years of budget austerity were aimed at storing up a surplus to be used in ways that would help his re-election drive. No one, however, could have predicted the extraordinary growth of the financial sector in the last two years. No one should count on it continuing, either. That is why it was appropriate to spend part of the money on updating schoolbooks, an expense that does not recur from year to year. 
 The budget adopted by the City Council last summer contained several risky assumptions, as this page warned at the time. It was questionable, for example, to assume that the Port Authority would be willing to pay more than $300 million in rent for the city's airports, or that the state and Federal governments would increase their aid. These savings have not materialized and the new money will now be used to fill the gap.
The improved economy also does not ease the underlying imbalance in the city's budget. Even now, expenditures are growing faster than revenues, in large part because of increased costs in debt service, wages and fringe benefits and health care for the poor. The estimated budget deficit for the next fiscal year, which begins on July 1, is $1.2 billion, and is projected to grow to more than $3 billion in three years.
In addition, City Hall has not fulfilled its pledges to control overtime spending for the police, fire and sanitation departments. The city is also expected to fall short of its targets for reducing its work force, in part because many of the employees who have left their jobs are those with computer skills who have had to be replaced.
The need to find jobs for tens of thousands of welfare recipients over the next few years compounds the city's financial uncertainty. Job placement, day care, transportation, training and other services to enable people on welfare to hold down jobs will impose costly burdens on both City Hall and Albany. Mr. Giuliani and others have called on Washington to reverse one of the crueler provisions of the recently enacted welfare law by providing benefits to legal immigrants. If such action is not taken, it will require hundreds of millions to make up the difference.
These apparently inescapable costs mean that the mayoral election will have to focus on managing deficits and on finding new savings. Controlling health-care costs, for both city employees and the poor under the Medicaid program, is one obvious priority. Bringing about greater productivity in the work force is another. Despite the recent favorable economic news, New York City is a long way from putting its fiscal house in order.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (91%); CITIES (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); OVERTIME (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (67%); AIRPORTS (64%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



41 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3531 words

HEADLINE: Canton's Biggest Employer Is Out of Step, and That's Fine With Him

SERIES: AN AMERICAN PLACE: A FAMILY COMMITMENT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP 

DATELINE: CANTON, OHIO, Dec. 1

 BODY:
In the weeks before the election, leaders of the Dole campaign in Stark County privately admitted that their candidate did not have a prayer here, and by the morning of Nov. 5, even the longtime Republican Congressman Ralph Regula, a cautious man, was saying for the record that Bill Clinton would win.
But not W. R. Timken Jr. 
 Representing the fourth generation of the family to run the Timken bearing and steel company, Stark's largest employer, Mr. Timken was publicly predicting a victory by Bob Dole right to the bitter end. "People are going to be surprised by the results," Mr. Timken, known as Tim, told a reporter that Tuesday morning, after voting for every Republican on the ballot.
In truth, he did not believe a word of it. "We couldn't beat Clinton this time," he said recently. "I don't care what they say, what we tried, you wouldn't beat this guy with this economy. These are things we can say now. The election is over."
Mr. Timken would not say them before, because he felt a duty to Mr. Dole and, even more so, to the Republican Party, to which he donates $100,000 each Presidential election year. "Duty" has been a driving force all his life as he rose among his Timken siblings and cousins to take over "the company," as well as assume the Timken patriarch's traditional leadership role in Republican politics and philanthropy.
The life that the 57-year-old Mr. Timken has lived -- filled with duty to company, to party, to capitalism, to Canton, to the family name -- is in many ways an anachronism, and for that reason provides a measure of how much the nation's political and economic values have changed with time.
Corporate leaders today often are leery of being too political for fear of hurting business. But when Mr. Timken returned here as a young man in 1962, with a graduate degree from Harvard Business School and no interest in politics, his father told him he had a civic duty to develop an interest and sent him to meet Ray Bliss, the state Republican chairman. During the 1980's, Mr. Timken became the finance chairman of the Ohio Republican Party, as his father was before him. Many Republicans from this area, including Mr. Regula, got their political start because a Timken asked them to run.
Nor is he in step with Wall Street, though he has led a modernization and international expansion of the Timken Company that helped produce record earnings in 1995 while maintaining the company's standing as the country's leading producer of tapered bearings.
The rap on the Timken Company from Wall Street analysts is that it could be even more profitable if it would only be more aggressive about downsizing its work force of 18,000, if it were not so preoccupied with striving to produce the highest quality bearing and steel products in the world and if it was less worried about its responsibility to the people of Canton.
"The company is so focused on quality and its reputation and pleasing its customers," said Tobias Levkovich, an analyst with Smith Barney, "to some degree, it hurts profit margins."
Analysts contrast Timken with another worldwide company based here, Diebold, the nation's leading maker of automated teller machines.
Wall Street loves the aggressive cost-cutting at Diebold, which has moved hundreds of good-paying manufacturing jobs out of Canton in the last 15 years, opened several lower-paying factories in the South and keeps a low profile here.
For his part, Mr. Timken says management has worked hard to improve the return to shareholders, expanding the company through recent acquisitions in Italy, China, Poland and Britain; reorganizing management and union members into work teams with interchangeable roles; building the highly computerized Faircrest plant here in Stark County, one of the nation's most modern steel mills, and cutting inventory and overhead.
But he also says he will not engage in short-term "financial engineering" for Wall Street's benefit.
"If business can be run on a long-term basis, you get better results," he said. "Our view of the Timken Company is we're operators making things. We're committed to the product."
Wall Street analysts complain that when they visit Timken, they are not given the red carpet treatment and do not get to meet Mr. Timken or the company president, Joseph F. Toot Jr.
Mr. Timken says he delegates that to the chief financial officer, although, through the decades, none of the Timken men have been chatty in public. H. H. Timken, who oversaw the company from its founding in 1899 to 1940, was one of the wealthiest Americans of his time, yet granted just one interview to a magazine (to Forbes, in 1924).
This generation's Mr. Timken is stamped from the same industrialist mold, a man of no pretense who can move in any circle but seems most comfortable talking bearings and steel and who is not shy about playing hardball if he feels a union, a government regulator or community leader wants too much from him.
Nor is he given to emotional discourse. During an interview, when he was asked to discuss the family's involvement in Canton -- through the years it has donated tens of millions of dollars, often without publicity, to the arts, the hospitals, Timken High School, the swimming complex -- his answer was to pull out a piece of white-lined paper.
On it he had written "Family Commitment" and copied a short excerpt from a Jan. 2, 1922, letter that his grandfather sent to a sister in California: "Money should be conscientiously used to some extent right here in Canton where all of it came from. I recognize our bounden duty to do something for Canton and the thousands of men and women here who have toiled and made the many millions each of us have."
Mr. Timken's father, the previous chairman, was a quiet, private man, and though the son has played a more public role in his 21 years as chairman, he is not at heart a public person either.
"I'd say you're correct on that fact," Mr. Timken said. "By nature, I wasn't a salesman, but by dint of responsibility to the Timken Company and the position, I had to learn how to be a public person and sell and convince people of my beliefs and why they should agree with what I had to say. As a kid, maybe I enjoyed being more a follower than a leader. As an adult I couldn't continue; I had to adjust."
His corporate office is not large and does not dominate surrounding offices. And while the Timkens control 18 percent of the company's stock, worth more than $250 million at the current price, Mr. Timken lives quietly in the small community, in a nice but not lavish home in the upper-class Hills and Dales section.
"I have no desire to have my head above the water more than I have to," Mr. Timken said. It is an apt metaphor for a man who was on Stanford's swim team, and who for the last two years, as a masters swimmer in the 55 to 60 age category, has had the best time in the United States in the 200-meter butterfly.
 
Their Own Way
Striving for Quality, Not for Wall Street
If most analysts and journalists find it hard to get to Mr. Timken, top Timken managers and major customers are struck by how accessible he is. For a century, Timkens have focused their attention on making and selling tapered bearings, at first for horse-drawn wagons and now for John Deere tractors, GMC Suburbans, F-18 fighter engines, high-speed dental drills, computer disk drives and space shuttle landing gears. He urges his top managers to call on him, and they do, as when the Bucyrus, Ohio, bearing factory manager had him come discuss improvements the plant had made in lowering quality defect rates.
Michael Gaffney, chairman of Motion Industries in Birmingham, Ala. a distributor of Timken bearings, says that if there is a problem, "I contact Tim Timken and I get a response."
David MacGregor, an analyst with Midwest Research, says customers "without exception" believe that Timken produces a sophisticated, dependable product line.
But Wall Street wants more, and its analysts do not get as excited about Timken as they do about its neighbor, Diebold. For years Diebold stock has outperformed the S&P 500, and this year its value has increased 62 percent, while Timken's rose 19 percent.
Still, it is Timken that has delivered the best economic news of 1996 to the people living on the Main Streets of Stark County who worry about the loss of middle-class factory jobs. In June, the Hoover Company of North Canton announced that it was building a new line of vacuum cleaners in Texas, at a $7.50-an-hour wage. In October, Diebold announced that it was opening three new nonunion plants in the South.
But in September, Timken announced that it was spending $55 million to renovate its Harrison plant here, where steelworkers earn $35,000 a year.
Even Ron Stokes, the steelworkers' union president, who is doing battle with Timken over the hiring of outside contractors for mailroom and laboratory work and the storage of parts at nonunion shops, believes that the company commitment to Canton is sincere.
"I don't think they'll up and leave this community," he said. "The Timkens can live anywhere in the world, but this is where they keep their roots."
 
Family Values
Brains and Work, Not Just a Name
When Mr. Timken was 18 and had recently graduated from Phillips Andover Academy, his father started him on a series of menial summer jobs. "I shoveled dolomite into the furnaces," he recalled. "It was his idea, not my idea; I didn't want to do it. But he laid the program out.
"There was going to be no free ride. He naturally made that clear from the beginning. No special opportunity because of who you are."
On the one hand, he understands that his family's fortune has given him extraordinary opportunity, but on the other, he resents people who think it has all been easy.
"Sometimes I get referred to as privileged," he said. "I went to prep school with some kids whose parents had a lot of money and they were real jerks, brought up in spoiled situations. It frosts me when I get called privileged. I was fortunate, but my parents taught me there was nothing special about me because of who I was or where I lived."
After Stanford, he did not feel he needed another degree, but he went on to Harvard Business School, as his father had. "It gave me a certificate to show that I could get a job someplace beside the Timken Company," he said, "It was more important for others than for me, especially with a company with a heavy family involvement."
In the next 13 years he held several management positions. Then, in 1975, W. R. Timken reached 65, Timken's mandatory retirement age, and issued a rare personal statement to the press: "As did those who preceded me -- my father, H. H. Timken, and my brother, H. H. Timken Jr. -- I feel very strongly the importance of having a member of the Timken family hold the position of chairman. There is not the slightest doubt in my mind that my son is qualified by his education, his apprenticeship and his dedication to serve the stockholders."
America was still dominant in steel when the son took over. But that changed in the early 1980's. By then the company had decided it would either have to build a new steel plant to supply its bearings operation, or get out of steel making. In 1981 Timken approved plans for the Faircrest plant, a $450 million state-of-the-art mill. In 1982 the company broke ground.
And then the steel industry collapsed. Century-old companies closed or went bankrupt. Canton sat in the middle of the rust belt, with a jobless rate of 14 percent. Japanese and German steel makers were in ascent. The Timkens kept wondering, "Could America really move to an all-service economy with no steel made domestically?"
In the autumn of 1983, they considered halting construction and writing off millions in losses. Mr. Timken wanted to build, but there was a major voice against continuing: his father. Though retired, his father, known as Bob, played a dominant role on the board.
"It took a lot of convincing to get my father to go along," he said. "He viewed it as a bearing company. He thought it might affect our primary business. I had the facts. That was the only way you could deal with my father. He didn't accept simple opinions. It took multiple discussions."
In recent years, the board has added many outside directors, from the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Rockwell International, Diebold, the Standard Oil Company, and others, but in the early 1980's, the family still had direct control over almost all the votes.
In the end, the retired chairman said it was the chairman's call.
For a few years it looked like the wrong call. Timken had its poorest quarter ever at the end of 1986, losing $70 million. "At that rate, it wouldn't take us long to go down the tubes," Mr. Timken said.
But that was the worst of it. In the years since, the plant has been cited as a prime example of the American steel renaissance and has won many industry awards.
Mr. Timken was asked if his father, who died in January 1995, ever praised him for making the right decision on Faircrest. "Praise?" Mr. Timken said. "Dad? He wasn't big on praise. I can't say he ever specifically said it aloud. What I do know is when he was in the hospital and it turned out he'd never get out -- by then I had it firmly in my head the kind of year '95 would be; I was able to tell him, privately, obviously, what the future held. He said: 'I'm really glad to know this. You guys have really done a great job.' He went knowing that."
 
Give and Take
Government Aid, And Some Ill Will
Mr. Timken, who earns about $1 million a year in salary and bonuses, says that in business decisions, the company tries to give Canton the benefit of the doubt. "We have to take care of our area," he said.
The company employs about 6,000 workers here, and it is not at all unusual for both union members and managers to retire with 25 years or more of service. Which is not to say that Timken is run like a social welfare agency. The company has often been as stern with its workers and Canton as the Timken patriarchs have been with their sons.
The Timken president from 1934 to 1960 was William Umstattd, once described by John Dos Passos in Life magazine as marching through the plant "like a Prussian general."
In recent years, union relations have been fairly smooth, although there have been bitter battles in past years. During a 38-day strike in 1958 Mr. Umstattd mounted movie cameras at the factory gates to record pickets and went on WHBC radio appealing for workers to return to the mills.
It was Mr. Umstattd who decided that even top executives should punch a daily time clock, a practice that continued until 10 years ago.
Whether it is Wall Street, the government or liberal do-gooders, Timken has rarely bent to outsiders. In the 1950's it aggressively fought Federal charges that it engaged in monopolistic practices in pricing bearings. In the 1980's, when those trying to end apartheid urged American companies to withdraw from South Africa, Timken kept its bearing business there, arguing that it was doing more good by providing jobs for more than 100 black workers.
While Mr. Timken admires Speaker Newt Gingrich's effort to cut entitlements, at times his company has benefited from corporate welfare. Timken threatened to build the Faircrest mill down south if it was not given tax concessions. It wound up winning $30 million in tax abatements, grants and infrastructure improvements from the state, the county and the local Perry school district.
For that reason there is resentment here toward Timken over a recent tax dispute involving the Perry schools.
Two years ago, the state realized that Timken had overpaid $1.4 million in school taxes to Perry, a blue-collar district with financial difficulties. Timken agreed to accept repayment over two years and forgive the interest.
In turn, Perry school leaders worked hard last spring and passed a school tax levy in a district with a strong antitax sentiment. But, there is a lag between the time a levy passes and revenue is collected, and the district asked if Timken could wait one more year for its second payment of $700,000.
The company said no. An editorial in The Repository, the Canton newspaper, spoke for many, calling Timken "downright unneighborly."
At most companies the public relations department would have sent the rejection letter to the Perry schools. Not Timken. Mr. Timken signed it personally.
"We had worked out a reasonable compromise," he said in an interview. "Clearly the system had no right to that money. Why should we use shareholders' money to bail out ineffectiveness? There are some people -- we could give away all our money and they wouldn't be happy."
 
World of Politics
G.O.P. Stalwart In a Changing Time
Mr. Timken's political model was Ray Bliss, who went from being the Republican Party chairman of Ohio to be the national party chairman. He had a reputation for honesty, for counting every last pencil used by the Columbus staff and for keeping infighting private.
So, while practically everyone in America has second-guessed the Dole campaign, Mr. Timken will not.
And while just about everyone at least pays lip service to campaign finance reform, Mr. Timken does not.
"I have no problem with complete disclosure," he said. "But as a person who believes in the power of the individual, I'm concerned that artificial expenditure limits will produce as many problems as it cures."
To supplement the hundreds of thousands of dollars he, his family and Timken executives give to Republicans each election cycle, Mr. Timken started a Timken company political action committee last spring. So far, 52 Timken executives are having an average of $100 a month deducted from their paychecks for the PAC, which has given 89 percent of its money to Republicans.
"Giving money," Mr. Timken said, "doesn't decide things, but it does help access."
That was plain in March, during a rally in Columbus for Mr. Dole, attended by 2,000. There was a large room reserved for several hundred top Republicans, which Mr. Dole worked for a few minutes. Then he ducked into a private meeting with two men, Bob Bennett, the Ohio party chairman, and Mr. Timken.
While Mr. Timken speaks with disdain of President and Mrs. Clinton, ("Hillary will appoint all the judges now"), he believes this is still part of the Republican era shaped by President Reagan. He also believes global market forces are increasingly driving American politics. "It's partly why Clinton is talking in terms of a balanced budget -- if you don't, the world's financial markets will punish you."
He believes he will be judged by how he has prepared the Canton company for the global economy.
"In my father's generation, not one senior manager had lived in another country for an extended period or acquired another language," said Mr. Timken, who speaks French and was a manager in Colmar, France, one of 23 nations where Timken has offices.
"Today, virtually every one of us has. We had 120 top people from our worldwide company in Virginia three weeks ago and asked how many had worked for Timken in a country other than their native country; three-fourths raised their hands."
"We've spent the last 15 years setting the stage for a global company," he said. "You can't just wake up one day with a bunch of people from Canton and say, 'O.K., we're going to sell all over the world,' and no one speaks French, German, Chinese, or knows how to use chopsticks."
 
The Future
Next Generation Looks Forward
Duty has its price. True capitalists are more preoccupied with making money than spending it. When Mr. Timken was first interviewed, by phone last February, he was at a Days Inn in Phoenix, where it was 6:30 A.M. He ended by saying, "Got to go sell some bearings."
None of Mr. Timken's four children work for the company, perhaps, friends suggest, because they grew up seeing duty's price firsthand. However, Mr. Timken has a nephew, Ward Timken Jr., 29, also nicknamed Tim ("young Tim"), who earned a graduate business degree from the University of Virginia and then joined the company.
The elder Mr. Timken was asked if his nephew might be the fifth Timken to run the company.
"For any member of the Timken family to be involved he has to be capable of competing with others potentially in that position," he said, "Of course, as a Timken, you get a little leg up. But as a young man, I was in meetings when others weren't. I learned things from day one that others take years to learn.
"Tim's worked hard. He got that business school degree. He can get the job done. He doesn't feel better than anyone else."
 
This year, as so often in the past, the residents of Canton and surrounding Stark County in northeast Ohio mirrored the national vote for President, selecting Bill Clinton by 8 percentage points. This is the 37th article in a yearlong series that has explored the forces that have shaped the political debate at the grass roots. (Previous articles are available to computer users on The New York Times on the Web, at http://www.nytimes.com/ specials/canton.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry Timken, left, founded the company in 1899. His son, H. H. Timken, oversaw it until 1940. He was succeeded by a son, H. H. Timken Jr., and later by another son, W. R. Timken, above. (Photographs by the Timken Company); W. R. Timken Jr. is the fourth generation to run the steel company that bears his family name. He brought new ideas and an old-style commitment to the community. (Scott Heckel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series ; OHIO; 

TICKER: TKR (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332991 BALL & ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (96%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TIMKEN CO; DIEBOLD INC TIMKEN CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIMKEN CO; DIEBOLD INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CANTON (OHIO); STARK COUNTY (OHIO); ; OHIO; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; STEEL AND IRON; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES ; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BALL & ROLLER BEARING MFG (89%); POLITICS (89%); TRENDS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEN (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); FAMILY (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); RELOCATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: ;TIMKEN, W J JR; WINERIP, MICHAEL; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RALPH REGULA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



42 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: At Heart of Dispute, Tires by the Acre

BYLINE: By TOM VERDE 

DATELINE: SMITHFIELD, R.I.

 BODY:
Rhode Island's biggest environmental hazard isn't some faulty waste-water treatment plant, careless laboratory or reckless factory. Rather, the state's Department of Environmental Management says, it is a pile of old tires in a Providence suburb.
Make that a towering, 20-acre pile of 30 million highly combustible tires, so vast that if they were laid end to end, they would stretch westward like a black rubber necklace from this rural Rhode Island neighborhood to about the middle of the Gobi Desert in East Asia. What's more, the pile has spread to a wetland and partly covers an underground pit of hazardous waste. 
 The admiral of this deep, black ocean of rubber and toxic sludge is William Davis, a landfill operator who has been slow to clean up the mess, state officials said, despite a state law banning the accumulation of tires. Federal environmental agents, fended off with threats of gunfire, say they will no longer venture onto his land without an armed escort.
For 20 years, a succession of at least four attorneys general in Rhode Island has led determined but futile campaigns to force Mr. Davis to clean up his land. Yet his tire pile, less than 10 miles from the Scituate Reservoir, the state's major water source, remains an "environmental time bomb waiting to go off," in the words of Michael Blumenthal, executive director of the Scrap Tire Management Council, an industry group. Mr. Davis did not return numerous phone calls seeking comment.
The events that led junkyard operators like Mr. Davis and others around the country to accumulate old tires -- Mr. Blumenthal estimates the number at 850 million, but the Federal Environmental Protection Agency says 3 billion -- began just after World War II.
Until then, tires were made entirely of natural rubber, which could be melted down and reused. But after Francois Michelin introduced the steel-belted radial tire in 1946, tire rubber could no longer be recovered easily because of the added steel fibers. The complex chemistry of today's tires, designed to meet tougher safety and performance standards, combines natural and synthetic rubber, elastomers and fine powders called carbon blacks, which makes it even more difficult to extract reusable rubber. Experts compare the task to recycling a cake back to its original ingredients.
So, until the mid-1980's, when states began enacting scrap tire legislation, most scrap tires simply went to landfills or private dumps like Mr. Davis's -- then an accepted method of disposal.
Today, 35 states have scrap-tire management programs, which are financed by the dollar or two each consumer pays when purchasing new tires. Nearly 70 percent of the 253 million scrap tires generated last year ended up in the hands of recyclers, who shredded them and sold the resulting 2-by-2-inch chips to electricity producers, paper mills or cement kilns, which burn the chips as fuel. Tire chips burn hotter than coal, with about the same emissions. Tires are also ground up and used in asphalt or as a substitute for rock or sand in construction.
But recyclers want their used tires to come directly off cars -- "fresh kills," as they are known in the trade. Tires that have been piled up and have collected dirt, rocks and water wear down costly shredders and clog incinerator conveyors, causing emissions problems.
"You don't make enough money on them for all the trouble they cause you," said Bruce Hayn, business manager of Exeter Energy in Sterling, Conn., one of two electricity plants in the nation built to burn tires exclusively. "They have no value." The other plant, owned by the same corporation, is Modesto Energy in Westley, Calif.
During the oil crisis of the 1970's, Mr. Davis and others believed that scrap tires were "black gold," said Stephen G. Morin, assistant to the director of the Department of Environmental Management.
"There was lots of talk back then of turning tires into oil," Mr. Morin said. "The truth is, after you deduct processing and transportation costs, it's just not economically feasible. Tires actually have a negative value."
Still, Mr. Davis continued to take scrap tires. About the time he started collecting tires, he also began accepting chemical waste, dumping it into a large pit he had excavated on his property. When the town tried to stop him, he sued in Federal court.
He agreed to stop accepting hazardous waste in exchange for a consent decree allowing him to store tires. The pile continued to grow, eventually filling in a wetland on his property and covering a hazardous-waste pit. The Federal Government declared the pit a Superfund site in 1983, placing it on a list of sites needing a major cleanup of toxic waste. Runoff from the site has contaminated the wells of several neighbors, the E.P.A. says.
In 1989, the state passed its Tire Storage Act, which outlaws the accumulation of more than 400 tires on private land and requires violators to comply retroactively. Mr. Davis refused and took his case to court, arguing that his consent decree exempted him from the act. The court disagreed, saying the agreement reached with the town could not override state law. Mr. Davis also argued that the tire law would deprive him of possible income from tire sales to recyclers.
But recyclers do not pay to remove tires -- they are paid to do so, Mr. Blumenthal said.
"If Mr. Davis figures that at some point his tires might be worth something, that is a fallacy," Mr. Blumenthal said. "No one is ever going to pay him for those tires."
In 1994, Mr. Davis disposed of almost 900,000 tires after striking a deal with Oxford Tire Supply, a tire recycler and Exeter Energy subsidiary. It is not clear if Mr. Davis sold the tires to Oxford. Mr. Hayn says Mr. Davis paid for the removal, but the state Department of Environmental Management says it has on file a copy of a check to Mr. Davis from Oxford for loading tires onto trucks. Oxford stopped taking Mr. Davis's tires on Dec. 2, 1995, Mr. Morin said, and no tires have left the property since then.
That worries state officials and residents alike. In addition to being a breeding ground for rats and mosquitoes -- of particular concern in Rhode Island, where mosquitoes carrying Eastern equine encephalitis were found last summer -- tire piles are especially susceptible to fire and can burn for months, releasing toxic smoke.
"If Davis's tires were to ignite, it would be major hazard," said the Smithfield deputy fire chief, Stuart Robinson.
The Smithfield Fire Department's emergency plan for the Davis dump involves water pumped from a nearby pond and cranes to pluck out burning sections of the pile.
But to get to the pile, Mr. Robinson said, fire lanes need to be carved through the mountainous stack of rubber, which is 35 feet high in some spots.
A court order calls for Mr. Davis to remove a certain number of tires per year and to build fire lanes and a perimeter road. Mr. Davis has only recently begun work on the perimeter road, after getting orders from at least two Superior Court Judges.
The Justice Department has said that because Mr. Davis's finances are limited, the state will have to pay for cleaning up the pile and try to recoup its loss by selling the tires if it can, said Terrence Tierney, the Rhode Island Assistant Attorney General. He added that the state could also confiscate some of Mr. Davis's property and sell it to recover its expenses.
Asked if anyone would be interested in buying a used dump, complete with a Superfund site, Mr. Tierney said, "It would be a tough sell."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An aerial view of a 20-acre pile of tires in Smithfield, R.I., less than 10 miles from Rhode Island's main water source. Michael Blumenthal of the Scrap Tire Management Council called it an "environmental time bomb." (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: ML (PAR) (58%); MIH (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (58%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); GOBI DESERT (57%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: CIE GENERALE DES ETABLISSEMENTS MICHELIN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE (RI); UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); GOBI DESERT (57%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; TIRES; WATER POLLUTION; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); TIRES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); TIRE RECYCLING (89%); RUBBER & SILICONE (89%); LANDFILLS (89%); TIRE DISPOSAL & RECYCLING (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); CHEMISTRY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (77%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); PAPER & PACKAGING (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); PAPER MILLS (73%); WETLANDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SYNTHETIC RUBBER (71%); CARBON BLACK (71%); WORLD WAR II (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: VERDE, TOM W MICHAEL BLUMENTHAL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



43 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: More Students Study Abroad During College

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1

 BODY:
Rising numbers of American college students are studying overseas, and more of them are venturing farther afield, to Africa, Australia and the Middle East, a new survey has found.
The number of American students studying abroad rose 10.6 percent, to 84,403, in 1994-95, continuing a 10-year upward trend, according to a report released today by the Institute of International Education, a nonprofit educational and cultural exchange organization in New York. 
 Foreign student enrollment in colleges in the United States, meanwhile, rose less than 1 percent in the last two years.
"As recently as a decade ago, studying abroad was considered a luxury," said Richard M. Krasno, the institute's president. "I think it's now considered a more instrumental part of undergraduate education."
He speculated that American students were warming to the idea of studying abroad because they were being exposed to other cultures on their own campuses. Many also recognize the importance of a second language and international experience in competing for jobs, he said.
"When I went to school, they said: 'Here, study French. If you ever go to France, you'll be able to order off a menu,' " said Wayne Decker, director of the office of international studies at the University of Arizona. "Now, it's seen as a career asset."
The report was based on a 96 percent response rate from 2,579 accredited institutions in the United States. The institute has conducted an annual statistical survey of the foreign student population in the United States since 1949. The report is supported by a grant from the United States Information Agency.
A fast-growing economic market in China led to a 30 percent increase in the number of American students studying there in 1994-95, Mr. Krasno said. Costa Rica also reported a 30 percent increase, partly because many students recognize the advantage of knowing Spanish, he said.
He said Australia was aggressively recruiting American students. It reported a 42 percent rise in the number of Americans enrolled in 1994-95, with 3,346. While these countries and those in the Middle East and Africa reported large percentage increases in the number of American students, Britain was host to the most -- 19,410 students, or 23 percent of all study-abroad students. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (57%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (57%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; CHINA; GREAT BRITAIN; AUSTRALIA; UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (69%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FOREIGN STUDY, TEACHING AND TRAVEL STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (93%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TRENDS (79%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); ACCREDITATION (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



44 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Relies on Big Donors for 1997 Race

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's aggressive style of raising funds for his re-election has produced an unusually high reliance on big givers: the average contribution to his campaign is $1,122. That is nearly eight times the size of his leading competitor's and is the highest average in the eight-year history of the city's tighter restrictions on campaign contributions.
Mr. Giuliani is the first general-election mayoral candidate since the city's Campaign Finance Act was passed in 1988 to have an average contribution higher than the maximum that is matched with public funds. The city does not match any portion of a contribution that exceeds $1,000, a provision of the act designed to encourage candidates to rely on smaller contributions. 
 The Mayor's chief fund-raiser, John H. Gross, said the campaign's strategy was to raise "all that we needed in the least amount of time in as few events as we could," to get fund-raising out of the way early and free up Mr. Giuliani to govern and campaign next year. Nearly three-quarters of the $6.2 million the Mayor has raised has come from contributions of greater than $1,000.
By contrast, Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, who the polls show is Mr. Giuliani's closest competitor, has received only a third of her $1.3 million in contributions greater than $1,000, and her average contribution is $147.
Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President, is taking a middle ground between the two approaches, raising 56 percent of his $1.7 million from amounts greater than $1,000; his average is a relatively high $882.
Sal F. Albanese, the Brooklyn City Councilman who is the only officially announced mayoral candidate, is far behind the others in his fund-raising, having brought in only $215,000. His average contribution is $127. The Rev. Al Sharpton and former Police Commissioner William J. Bratton are also considering running but have not filed any finance reports.
The Mayor's fund-raising pattern is also in sharp contrast to that of his own previous campaigns, when his averages were about one-third of what they are this year -- $423 in 1989, and $418 in 1993. Mayor David N. Dinkins's average contribution in 1989 was $352; in 1993, $349. Mr. Gross said Mr. Giuliani held about 200 fund-raising events in the 1993 campaign, and expects to hold fewer than 50 this time.
The findings, based on a computer analysis by The New York Times of candidate reports compiled by the New York City Campaign Finance Board, also show the prominence of the real estate industry in campaign fund-raising. Members of the industry, who frequently come before the city for zoning changes and permits, have traditionally been the highest contributors to the campaigns of local officials, and their contributions are still by far the largest of any single business sector.
Nearly one of every five dollars raised by Mr. Giuliani has come from developers, large property owners, builders, and lobbyists for the industry, as determined by The Times. A slightly lesser percentage was given to Mr. Ferrer, while 8 percent of Ms. Messinger's total came from the real estate industry. The specific amounts from the industry to each candidate are probably higher, because there is no way to be certain of each donor's occupation.
Mr. Gross said the real estate contributors were giving not to receive favors from the Giuliani administration but because they believe the economy and their businesses will improve under his administration.
As the Mayor and Mr. Gross often say, the Giuliani campaign has raised more money going into an election year than any other incumbent Mayor. As of July 1996, the most recent reporting period, $9.4 million had been raised by all four candidates. In the 1993 campaign, a total of $17.4 million was raised by three candidates participating in the campaign financing program. Ronald Lauder, who did not participate, raised $15 million. In 1989, $20.3 million was raised by six candidates, along with $6.4 million by Andrew J. Stein, who also did not participate.
With the election nearly a year away, the fund-raising contest is far from over. But Mr. Giuliani's strategy of raising money early means that he has already brought in most of the money he will raise. Mr. Gross said the campaign will have raised $7 million by the end of this month, much of it from a series of $1,000-a-plate candlelit dinners at the New York Sheraton, where contributors have an opportunity to buttonhole high-ranking city officials. By April, when the Mayor's fund-raising will conclude, the campaign expects to raise $10 million or $11 million.
The other candidates are still getting their fund-raising efforts off the ground, and are likely to begin raising much larger amounts in the months to come. Ms. Messinger, for example, plans a $500-per-plate dinner next month, so her average contribution is likely to rise somewhat.
But Ms. Messinger said she was deliberately staying away from large developers and other big contributors in favor of raising money "from the broadest possible base of people who live and work in the city." So far, in fact, she has the largest number of contributions: 8,659, compared to Mr. Giuliani's 5,576 and Mr. Ferrer's 1,893.
"That's the hallmark of my fund-raising," she said. "I think it's important to get people involved in backyards and living rooms." To that end, she has instituted a monthly contribution plan for small donors, in which their credit cards or checking accounts are automatically charged a small amount each month.
Mr. Gross, the chairman and treasurer of Friends of Rudy Giuliani, ridiculed Ms. Messinger's assertion, saying her strategy was simply born of necessity because she was unable to get large contributions.
"You raise it the way Ms. Messinger is raising money when you don't have alternatives," he said. "Because to do it that way takes a tremendous amount of time away from whatever you're supposed to be doing, and is much more expensive."
He added: "The borough presidents have a tremendous amount of time on their hands, and the Mayor doesn't. If anyone suggests that it would be a better idea for the Mayor to go and raise his money by having 1,000 house parties at $25, I'd like to ask that political genius how he or she thinks the Mayor is supposed to govern the city at the same time."
But previous incumbents have not relied nearly as heavily on large contributions, at least since the campaign finance program began. Before the limits went into effect, incumbents often received contributions greater than $10,000 each, but the amounts fell sharply after 1988. Mayor Edward I. Koch, who ran for re-election in 1989, had an average contribution of $468 that year, and Mr. Dinkins's average in 1993 was $349. Officials of the Campaign Finance Board said the reliance on smaller contributions was the intent of the law.
"It forces the candidate to go out to lots of people rather than rely on a handful of moneyed interests," said Nicole A. Gordon, executive director of the nonpartisan board.
But she noted that candidates who agreed to participate in the campaign finance program were already accepting drastically smaller contributions than they could get if they bypassed the program. Currently, the maximum contribution a local candidate can accept in the program is $7,700; one who did not participate would be limited by the state ceiling, which is $41,400. So far this season, all of the likely mayoral candidates are participating in the program.
Among the other findings of the analysis:
*Unions have contributed more money to Mr. Giuliani than to any other candidate, although their contributions constitute only 1 percent of his total. Mr. Albanese has relied the most heavily on union money, which constitutes more than a quarter of his total.
*Eighty contributors, mostly from the real estate industry, are hedging their bets by contributing to both Mr. Giuliani and one of his Democratic opponents. Four contributors, including Lewis Rudin, the real estate magnate, and the law firm of Rosenman & Colin, which does extensive city lobbying, have contributed to Mr. Giuliani, Ms. Messinger, and Mr. Ferrer.
*City employees have given $52,000 to mayoral candidates, two-thirds of which has gone to the Mayor. Among the high-ranking officials of the Giuliani administration who have contributed to their boss are three commissioners: William J. Diamond, Citywide Administrative Services, who gave $1,000; Diane McGrath-McKechnie, Taxi and Limousine Commission, $450; and Herbert W. Stupp, Aging, $100. Other givers to Mr. Giuliani include John S. Dyson, former deputy mayor, $7,700; Kathryn Croft, former Commissioner of Child Welfare, $1,250; W. Ann Reynolds, Chancellor of the City University of New York, $500; and two City Council members, Andrew S. Eristoff, $3,000, and Julia Harrison, $100.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Building Their War Chests" shows contributions to '97 mayoral candidates as of 7/96 (Source: New York City Finance Board) (pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; FINANCES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MAYORS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLICE FORCES (79%); REAL ESTATE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); ZONING (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); FIRESTONE, DAVID; GROSS, JOHN RUDY GIULIANI (92%); AL SHARPTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



45 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: Pitfalls in a Model for Workfare;
Westchester's Politically Popular Project Leaves Questions Unresolved

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER 

DATELINE: GREENBURGH, N.Y.

 BODY:
In the gloomy shadows of a highway overpass, six men were working off their welfare checks.
Two vigorously raked the leaves and broken glass that had gathered along the pillars supporting Interstate 287. The others idled on the sidewalk, glad for the overpass's shelter against a fall rainstorm. 
 One idle worker, Felton Jenkins, was annoyed that his workfare assignment has "got too much demands."
"They demand we have to be here at a certain time, and if we're not, we have to bring in a note," said Mr. Jenkins, a trim 32-year-old who once worked as a health aide but quit and went on welfare because he did not like commuting. "People who have regular jobs don't have to bring in notes."
But even those working hard brooded about the pointlessness of sprucing up a highway overpass.
"They say they teach you," said Elvin Santana, 42, who was once paid $12 an hour as a roofer. "Teach you what? How to sweep? Anybody can do that."
The Westchester County workfare program has become a national model by sharply cutting welfare rolls and putting more than 15,000 welfare recipients to work since 1989. It has forced welfare recipients to do something to earn their checks, and that may be all the public expects.
Yet even with so many things in its favor -- a highly regarded administrator, good labor relations, a strong network of nonprofit groups lending support -- Westchester's program is still dogged by many of the complaints and problems that have surfaced in newer programs in New York City and around the nation. And as New York City and the state accelerate their use of workfare, Westchester's experience offers telling clues of the pitfalls of a program that has proven politically popular.
Because of union resistance, Westchester's Pride in Work program is forced to offer nonessential work that provides little preparation for the job market.
Indeed, based on Westchester's experience, there is little evidence so far that workfare leads to the steady jobs its champions promise.
And any hope of putting large numbers of recipients to work is shadowed by the fact that many recipients have had habitual personal difficulties holding jobs. Moreover, the recipients complain that workfare interferes with the time they need to look for jobs.
Thus, interviews with government officials, advocates for the poor and welfare recipients suggest that it may be difficult to realize the lofty ambitions of the new Federal welfare law, which backers say will redeem hundreds of thousands of welfare clients and prepare them for the world of work. That is a world most recipients will have to enter under the five-year limit on benefits in the new law.
Officials in Westchester, which in comparison to New York City has a lean and highly regarded bureaucracy, have found it is tricky to find constructive tasks for the welfare recipients to do for 20 hours a week, the maximum demanded by workfare rules.
State law does not let workfare participants work for private for-profit employers, so they must work for the counties, cities and villages or for nonprofit organizations like the Y.M.C.A. Even in the public arena, assignments are those the Civil Service workers consider optional, like cleaning an overpass.
"You can't sacrifice the rest of the population because you want to help people on welfare," said Eddie Doyle, president of Local 456 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents workers in 35 Westchester municipalities.
Many of those asked to work, advocates for the poor say, lack the temperament, work habits or basic literacy demanded by business or government.
"Most of this population is unemployable," said Jerrold M. Levy, a lawyer for Westchester-Putnam Legal Services, a legal aid group. "They're coming from foster homes, they dropped out in the eighth or ninth grade, they've been fired."
Mr. Levy said he thought workfare was basically intended to shave the welfare rolls of cheats and malingerers. It forces those working off the books to show up at workfare jobs and punishes able-bodied people who miss assignments with suspension of their welfare checks for 90 to 180 days.
Because of its success in trimming welfare rolls, Westchester's program has been imitated or studied by New York City, seven upstate counties, and jurisdictions as distant as Michigan and Ontario.
Mary E. Glass, Westchester's Social Service Commissioner, says that since 1989, the program has garnered the equivalent of $12.1 million in labor by requiring 15,725 welfare recipients to work.
As important, 20,658 cases of Home Relief -- the welfare program for childless adults -- have been closed, 60 percent of them permanently, because people refused workfare assignments or did not show up for work.
She bristles when she hears sentiments like Mr. Levy's that most recipients cannot work.
"It's so demeaning, patronizing and paternalistic to say that people don't have the ability to hold a job," she said.
Pride in Work, Ms. Glass said, is putting 748 childless adults to work at 177 sites. They are filing paperwork, cleaning trash along rivers, cooking and painting. The county has been able to put only 160 women with dependent children to work because it has little money to spare for day care.
Still, the success of Pride in Work in steering people into the job market is an open question. The county keeps no information about how many graduates have gone on to steady jobs.
Ms. Glass said that most people who find jobs feel no obligation to let the county know, sometimes because their new jobs are off the books. The county has also never done a survey tracking where its workfare graduates go.
Officials of the nine cities and towns that employ workfare participants say, however, that only a handful of assignments have ever resulted in permanent jobs.
"It's cheap labor that generally does not result in employment," said Paul J. Feiner, the Town Supervisor in Greenburgh, which uses 10 workfare workers. "You may have someone who's really good, and it would be nice if someone could land a job, but it doesn't happen. We don't have any turnover in municipal jobs."
Even one of the most highly regarded workfare programs, run by Westhab Inc., a nonprofit housing agency that operates a residence for employed Home Relief recipients in White Plains, said that in the first 10 months of 1996, only 25 of the 80 men who passed through the residence found steady work.
Ms. Glass, the architect of the county's program, feels that what is important is that anyone receiving a welfare check be made to work. Not working, she said, is "like existential death."
Ms. Glass does not foresee difficulties when the new welfare law expands workfare to include mothers. Mr. Pataki's welfare plan calls for spending $383 million to create day care openings.
"Go out and look at all of the things you're never going to get to," Ms. Glass said. "People say: 'Why can't you get rid of the graffiti?' 'Why can't you get rid of the garbage?' "
Westchester maintains a small program to teach 60 of the most promising workfare participants how to present themselves to employers. So far, only 38 of 248 participants this year have found jobs as a result of those sessions.
To be sure, workfare has enjoyed some shimmering successes.
At the Y.M.C.A. in Yonkers, Diane C. Wrencher is off welfare and working full time as office manager for the Y's energetic director, Gregory Du Sablon. She joined the Y in December 1995 under the Pride in Work program and soon proved more proficient than Mr. Du Sablon's full-time employees.
In August, Mr. Du Sablon hired her as his office manager and now pays her $280 a week.
The 50-year-old Ms. Wrencher, though, has a solid work history, having worked for many years as a teller for National Westminster Bank.
Mr. Du Sablon said he had used 40 to 50 people from the workfare program, with mixed results. Three of every four have either been dismissed or had their checks suspended by the county's Social Services Department.
"Some have stolen a TV and VCR from us, some have done bad things and left us," he said. "They don't call and don't come in. You can be overly trusting."
But 17 are working there now, staffing the front desk, helping maintain the aged building, and doling out food in the Y's food pantry.
Under state law, welfare recipients cannot work off their checks for private employers, not even a McDonald's that might use someone's stint to evaluate prospects for permanent hiring. The state is wary of subsidizing one businessman at the expense of another, officials said.
Lawrence M. Mead, a professor of politics at New York University who has written two books on welfare employment policy, said that New York State is almost alone in the country in barring private workfare.
As a result, county officials have little room to maneuver in the jobs they assign. The possibilities for tensions with Civil Service unions are likely to multiply once the state, under the new Federal law, has to find jobs or train an estimated 1,700 women.
The 61 men at the Westhab employment residence must work off their checks by picking up garbage along the Bronx River Parkway, cutting grass and shoveling snow at the county hospital or cleaning the grounds of the Westhab residence.
The opportunity to stay at the residence, considered a Waldorf among homeless shelters, motivates the men to work.
But residents like Sylvester Williamson, 22, and Reginald Applewhite, 39, are not entirely pleased with the jobs they are asked to do. Whatever hopes they have for eventual employment are riding on cooking classes they are taking in Yonkers, not on workfare.
"It teaches you to get up in the morning, take a shower and get on the van to go to work," Mr. Williamson said of workfare. "But the work you do is not going to guarantee you a regular job. If you're raking leaves, it builds character, but you're still raking those leaves."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Participants in Westchester's Pride in Work program cleaning roadside debris. More than 15,000 welfare recipients have had workfare jobs since 1989.; During a break from his Westchester workfare job, Felton Jenkins, left, recently picked up an employment application at a Payless shoe store in Greenburgh, N.Y. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF HIGHWAYS & STREETS (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); LEGISLATION (62%); 

PERSON: GLASS, MARY E (COMR); BERGER, JOSEPH MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



46 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: DEFICIT ESTIMATES OF THE TWO SIDES ARE EDGING CLOSER

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1

 BODY:
The Republican leaders in Congress are reducing their estimate of the growth of the deficit, bringing them much closer to the White House's figures, officials from both sides say, even before they begin budget negotiations in earnest. The new projection not only reduces the size of the problem facing the White House and Congress but also narrows the differences between them.
The deficit estimates are a critical part of the budget process since they set the base line from which the two sides will try to negotiate spending cuts to bring the budget into balance by 2002 while still meeting campaign promises to cut taxes. Last year, the Clinton Administration's estimate of the deficit in 2002 was $100 billion less than that of Congress. With the new forecast, that difference is expected to be cut in half. 
 The new forecast will not be completed for another week or two, and it could still move up or down by tens of billions of dollars. But preliminary estimates on Capitol Hill put the Congressional Budget Office's deficit projection, using a comparable set of assumptions about future spending levels, at $150 billion in 2002, a drop of 29 percent from its last forecast.
"The closer the base lines, the easier it is to find bipartisan common ground on a balanced budget plan," said Gene R. Sperling, an economic adviser to President Clinton. "It's still not a small amount of money, and bridging the differences is still tough, but the picture is moving in the right direction."
Yet Republicans said that while the deficit problem was not so daunting in numerical terms as it was a year ago, it had become only marginally easier to solve in political terms because the areas from which spending will have to be cut remain extremely sensitive. Moreover, they said, the differences between the two sides will continue to have as much to do with their opposing views of the role of the Government as with how many dollars it should spend.
As one top Republican budget aide in Congress described the situation, "It sounds like we're getting to the realm of achieving balance easily, but the policies left to work with are still huge political problems."
The shift in the Congressional deficit forecast is driven by an unexpected surge in tax revenue, lower-than-projected increases in Medicare and Medicaid spending and a healthy economy that helped drive down the deficit this past fiscal year to $107 billion, its lowest level in 15 years.
After accounting for those positive factors, the Congressional Budget Office is reducing -- possibly by as much as one-third -- its previous estimate of a deficit of $212 billion in 2002, the year by which both parties have pledged to balance the budget, officials from both parties said.
The Administration's most recent forecast estimated that the deficit, on a comparable basis, would be $109 billion in 2002. The White House is now revising its own projections as well, and Administration officials said they expected their revised estimate to be $50 billion lower than the Republican figure. The White House and the Republicans were about $100 billion apart in their deficit projections last year, deepening their disagreements about how much spending had to be cut.
The Administration defends its more optimistic forecast as credible and prudent, but has agreed that the budget it submits to Congress in February will eliminate the deficit in five years using the more conservative forecast generated by the Budget Office. Although the Budget Office is officially nonpartisan and has generally retained its reputation of independence, Republican leaders have adopted its numbers as their own for negotiating purposes.
In a nod to the promises of bipartisanship by Democrats and Republicans since the elections, the Republicans have agreed for the first time to supply the White House with the economic assumptions underlying the Budget Office forecast in time for the Administration to incorporate it for budget planning.
The Budget Office is expected to have completed its economic calculations and to share them with the White House in the next several weeks. The Budget Office is also expected to supply the White House with its final deficit projections before Christmas. But the Republicans do not plan to present their budget proposal until after the Administration has laid out its plans, and serious negotiations between Congress and the White House on eliminating the deficit are unlikely to get under way before then.
Still, both parties said the new Budget Office forecast would be clear evidence of the progress made in bringing the deficit under control.
Mr. Clinton's budget chief, Franklin D. Raines, said, "We haven't really internalized how significant a change in fiscal policy we've achieved." The forecast, he said, will bring the deficit "into an area where people can contemplate the kinds of decisions that need to be made" for a balanced budget by 2002.
Among those decisions are ones that on the surface seem technical, but are fraught with political consequences. For example, a Congressionally appointed commission is expected to recommend this week that the Government revise how it calculates the Consumer Price Index in a way that would more accurately reflect the inflation rate.
Changing the index, which many experts say overstates inflation, would further reduce the budget deficit since it forms the basis for cost-of-living increases for Social Security and military pensions. But neither the Administration nor any Republican leader in Congress is rushing to embrace the idea of changing the index, a move that would, in effect, cut the politically popular cost-of-living increases. Administration officials say the changes in the index cannot be accomplished in time for the 1998 budget.
And, while insisting on the need for an accurate Consumer Price Index, Senator Don Nickels of Oklahoma, the Republican whip, said today on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," "This is an area where I think you'll see Congress not willing to move forward unless we have the signal from the Administration that they're likewise going to use or be willing to use an accurate C.P.I."
The new budget deficit forecasts also illustrate the degree to which the deficit problem is defined by arcane judgments on Capitol Hill and at the White House about the economy and its precise effects on the cost of Federal spending programs and on the amount of expected tax revenue.
The current calculations started with the good news that the Government collected more tax receipts and spent less money than planned. So the actual deficit for this past fiscal year, which ended on Sept. 30, was $107 billion, or 38 percent lower than the Budget Office projection of $172 billion one year ago. The trick for forecasters at the Budget Office and their counterparts at the White House Office of Management and Budget is to gauge how much of last year's good news will carry into coming years.
Medicaid, the medical insurance program for the poor, offers a good example. The Budget Office has been projecting annual increases in Medicaid spending of nearly 10 percent, but last year spending for the program did not grow at all in the first six months and then grew about 6 percent in the second six months.
June E. O'Neill, the Budget Office director, said her staff was checking with state Medicaid offices to determine how much of the lower growth is permanent, perhaps because of the shift toward more managed care programs. Spending for the larger Medicare program also came in lower than expected, though by a much smaller percentage than Medicaid, and the Budget Office must also revisit its assumption that Medicare will grow nearly 9 percent a year well into the next century.
The forecasters are also trying to explain why tax revenue came in higher than anticipated last year. The initial explanation was that investors were selling stocks at the end of last year to cash in on the strong year enjoyed by Wall Street, and incurred larger-than-projected capital gains liabilities. But Budget Office analysts are now studying other theories, most notably that small business partnerships were far more profitable than expected and thus generated bigger tax bills.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Shorter Shortfall" compares Democratic and Republican projections for the Federal budget deficit in 2002 (Sources: Congressional Budget Office; Office of Management and Budget) (pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICAID; MEDICARE; FORECASTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); MEDICARE (66%); MEDICAID (61%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



47 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: A Healthy Start To Key Season In Retail Sales

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
American shoppers, apparently feeling more flush than during last year's holiday season, hit the malls over the weekend with a vigor not seen in the last few years, retail executives and mall operators said yesterday.
John Konarski, vice president of the International Council of Shopping Centers in New York, which measures revenues in 24 malls across the country on each Friday after Thanksgiving, found that sales were up 11 percent from last year. Last year, sales increased only 5.8 percent from the previous year. 
 Another survey, by Telecheck Services Inc., showed that the value of checks written by shoppers on Friday was up 3.6 percent, after a 2.7 percent increase in 1995.
"Black Friday was great," Mr. Konarski said. The day after Thanksgiving, the traditional start of the holiday shopping season, is known as Black Friday because retailers hope that strong business will result in black ink on their balance sheets.
While the Thanksgiving weekend generally represents less than 10 percent of all sales made during the holiday season, it is still watched closely by retail executives who consider it a strong indicator of where the season is headed. This year, they were particularly anxious, as the shopping season is five days shorter than last year because Thanksgiving was later than usual.
And retailers, badly bruised last year by one of the worst selling seasons in recent memory, are counting on strong sales to raise profit margins and convince Wall Street that retail stocks are a good buy.
Early indicators seemed to show that merchants can relax a little. Sales at least matched their plans.
"The economy is good, there were all those early promotions and Hanukkah starts Thursday," Mr. Konarski said. "Also, I think consumers know that this is Dec. 1 and they don't have a lot of time."
Still, some retailers said they expected the shorter selling period to trim business no matter how strong the Thanksgiving weekend was. "Regardless of what some people say, five days short is going to be a problem," said Michael Gould, the chief executive of Bloomingdale's, which he said had a fairly good weekend. "If there are fewer days, people may not be in the stores as many times buying things for themselves."
And if there seemed to be more traffic in stores this weekend, some could have been drummed up by heavy use of promotions and sales. Stores placed plenty of "20 percent off" signs in their windows, despite promises this year that they would not begin promotions early in the season.
Still, Mr. Konarski said that the indicators were positive.
"This is the first day and is only a sample and only an indication," Mr. Konarski said. "But without a doubt, we see patterns here." Today, the organization plans to release information on spending in 85 malls for the entire Thanksgiving weekend.
Karen MacDonald, a spokeswoman for the Taubman Company, a mall developer, said mall and store managers at 21 shopping centers around the country told her that sales were at least matching expectations. "I can't say I talked to anybody who hadn't made their day's plan Friday," she said.
Apparel stores, an important category, had good news. They had a 6 percent sales gain in the malls, Mr. Konarski said, after an increase of only 1 percent last year.
The increase probably was caused to a large extent by the fact that there are fewer apparel stores in malls; many companies filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last year and closed stores. Also, an influx of less expensive, casual apparel has brought life to the market.
Other strong sales categories in the malls were jewelry, which increased 16.6 percent, compared with 6.3 percent last year, and footwear, which gained 14.2 percent, compared with an 8.8 percent increase last year, Mr. Konarski said. One sluggish area appeared to be home furnishings, which gained a mere 1.9 percent in mall sales.
While executives at retail chains have become more tight-lipped about their sales numbers, lest their predictions prove to be incorrect, their outlook seemed much brighter than it was last year.
"We were very pleased with the way the holiday season is shaping up," said Jaqui Lividini, a spokeswoman for Saks Fifth Avenue. "We saw increases in the mid-teens in total sales as compared with last year."
Executives at Sears, Roebuck & Company were glowing. "1996 was the best Thanksgiving in our history," John Costello, the company's senior executive vice president, said. He would not elaborate, which made that assessment difficult to evaluate. He added that "sales topped 1995 and are on plan." Areas that were particularly strong included tools, shoes and jewelry, he said.
Indeed, jewelry seemed to move smartly in all price ranges, from the low-end goods at Kmart to the $3,000 strands of pearls sold on Friday at a Bailey, Banks & Biddle store in Stamford, Conn.
The toy industry, which last year produced few real standouts, has once again entertained shoppers by sending popular items to the racks for grown-ups to fight over. At a Kay Bee toy store in the Lakeside Mall in Sterling Heights, Mich., the 21 sets of Nintendo 64 sold out shortly after the store opened on Friday. Ms. MacDonald said that toys based on the film "101 Dalmatians" flew off the shelves. "Any store that carried anything with spots did well," she said.
Fashion victims swarmed the orange tie displays at the Barneys New York store on West 17th Street at Seventh Avenue in Manhattan, and over the weekend at Saks Fifth Avenue, men's sportswear departments looked as though rude guests had just popped in and sauntered out, leaving destruction in their wake.
Weather, the usual culprit trotted out when sales are bad, seemed to work in merchants' favor over the weekend. Retailers said rain in New York and on the West Coast, as well as snow flurries in the Midwest, helped push shoppers into stores, looking for outerwear and sweaters.
Time-pressed shoppers seem well aware that there are five fewer shopping days this year, and many stores were busy even before Thanksgiving. Sears reported that its heavy traffic started on Wednesday night, as was the case in many Taubman malls. "Business really started back in early November," Ms. MacDonald, the company's spokeswoman, said.
But retailers were not relying only on favorable weather and high consumer confidence to draw shoppers. Stores ranging from Kmart to Bloomingdale's marked down goods, offering coats, toys, sweaters and tabletop items at well below full price. These types of markdowns usually raise red flags among analysts because while they certainly fuel sales, they dilute margins and show up at the end of a quarter in the form of weak earnings.
And of course, it was not hard to post good numbers when compared with last year's figures, which were weak for many stores.
"If this is supposed to be a very great holiday season, I didn't see much of a sign," said Kurt Barnard, editor of Barnard's Retail Marketing Report, who said that his weekend cruise of malls showed less activity than retailers reported. "Compared with last year, things are probably modestly better, but the question is, 'What does modestly better look like?' " 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (71%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (71%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TELECHECK SERVICES INC (71%); INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; THANKSGIVING DAY; CHRISTMAS; SHOPPING CENTERS; SALES THANKSGIVING (93%); RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL SALES (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); HANUKKAH (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



48 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
MILOSEVIC AND THE MINERS
The fate of President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, who has faced almost two weeks of street protests, may ultimately hinge on whether miners strike in a bleak region of the southeast. A1
ROMANIAN LEADER SWORN IN
President Emil Constantinescu pledged a new start for his nation in a Romanian Orthodox inauguration that was a milestone for post-Communist Eastern Europe. A3
DEATH SQUAD CHARGE IN PERU
A retired Peruvian general is being held in prison, after alleging in a television interview that an infamous military death squad had been reactivated and was responsible for a recent bombing. A5
AGREEMENT ON OKINAWA BASE
The United States and Japan announced that an American military helicopter base in Okinawa would be transferred onto a huge offshore platform as a way to reduce the noise and danger on the island. A6
PITFALLS FOR AFRICA FORCE
News analysis: Even a scaled-down international force to help refugees in Zaire is fraught with problems and could worsen the conflict there, aid workers say. A8
ZAIRE RECALLS ENVOY FROM FRANCE
Zaire recalled its Ambassador to France after thousands of people rallied to demand that he be charged in the deaths of two schoolboys in a traffic accident. A8
PEACE PACT IN SIERRA LEONE
The signing of a peace agreement this weekend ending a five-year civil war in Sierra Leone was the end product of skillful negotiations conducted by Africans themselves. A8
OFF THE STREETS IN ZAMBIA
At a farm in Zambia, there is no caning of students, no stealing and no glue to sniff, only pigs, okra and the kindness that keeps children off the streets. A9
 
Mexico City Journal: Where life imitates art imitates life. A4
 
NATIONAL A10-12, B7-9
 
SMALLER DEFICIT SEEN
The Republican leaders in Congress are reducing their estimate of the growth of the deficit, bringing them closer to the White House's figures, leaders of both parties say. A1
REWRITING COPYRIGHT LAW
Experts from 160 countries plan to rewrite international copyright agreements -- which have been under technological siege -- for the first time in the era of the personal computer and the Internet. A1
STRONG WEEKEND SALES
Shoppers, apparently feeling more flush than during last year's holiday season, hit the malls over the weekend with a vigor not seen in a few years, retailers said. A1
CULTURES CLASH IN NEBRASKA
When an Iraqi refugee family in Lincoln. Neb., proudly announced the marriage of their two young daughters, local officials accused them of a crime. A10
REVIVAL FOR TRAIN STATIONS
Kansas City's plan to renovate its historic Union Station is one of many across the nation to rescue graceful old train stations in what amounts to a second railroad boom, a century after the Golden Age of Railroads. A10
A HAZARD IN TIRES
Rhode Island's biggest environmental hazard is not a faulty water treatment plant or reckless factory, but a pile of old tires in a Providence suburb. A12
MORE STUDENTS GO ABROAD
A new survey has found that increasing numbers of American college students are studying overseas, and that more of them are venturing farther afield. B9
TRADING BLAME IN BALTIMORE
Many Baltimore residents are wondering who is to blame for the loss of the Baltimore Orioles' popular radio announcer after an apparent contract dispute. B7
CHANGED POLITICAL FORCES
An American Place: The Timken Company and the Timken family, both bulwarks of the community in Stark County, Ohio, provide a measure of how much the nation's political and economic values have changed with time. B8
 
METRO REPORT B1-6
 
THIEF OF TIMES SQUARE
A hoard of stolen wallets and pocketbooks found by workers renovating the Apollo Theater on West 42d Street is perhaps nothing more than a tantalizing historical footnote. But as a reminder of a particular time and place -- a turning point in the social history of New York City's most famous crossroads -- the discovery provides a rich symbol of the long decline, and now the rapid renaissance, of Times Square. A1
GIULIANI'S WARCHEST
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's intentionally aggressive style of political fund raising for his re-election has produced an unusually high reliance on big givers, with an average campaign contribution of $1,122. That figure is the highest average contribution in the eight years since the city tightened restrictions on public campaign financing. A1
DEFENDING INMATES' LIVES
Unlike traditional criminal defense, which looks for fractures in the prosecution's case, lawyers for New York State's Capital Defender Office, which oversees the representation of defendants who may face the death penalty, must also look beyond the nightmarish crime, to ferret out the nightmarish history of the criminal. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Arts prizes multiply, and so do doubts. C11
Frank Langella on Noel Coward. C11
Music: "Carmen." C12
Oscar Brown Jr. C13
Dance: The New York City Ballet in "The Nutcracker." C12
Books: Critic's Notebook C11
For holiday giving. C16
Television: Critic's Notebook C14
"The Prosecutors" and "Code Name: Wolverine." C14
 
Sports C1-9
 
Football: Eagles blank Giants. C1
O'Donnell injured again, and Jets lose again. C1
Columns: Anderson on Giants. C7
Moran on college football. C3
Golf: Couples wins Skins. C4
 
Obituaries B12
 
Tiny Tim, singer who flirted, chastely, with fame
John Williamson, Nets star in the 1970's
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
The city's temporary windfall.
Mexico's disappearing reforms.
Driving teen-agers from drugs.
A warm holiday ritual.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Which side are we on?
Bob Herbert: Death at an early age.
William Safire: President vs. press.
Jane Smiley: Shakespeare in action.
 
Chronicle B10
Bridge C14
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); TKR (NYSE) (58%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); FRANCE (92%); SERBIA (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (92%); ROMANIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN AGE FISHERIES (50%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); FRANCE (92%); SERBIA (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (92%); ROMANIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MINE WORKERS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (83%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); MINES & MINING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOMICIDE (76%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); REFUGEES (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); CIVIL WAR (70%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (65%); RETAILERS (64%); BUILDING RENOVATION (61%); COPYRIGHT LAW (61%); COPYRIGHT (61%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (61%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996



49 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Belarus Leader Aims at Russian Reunification

 BODY:
To the Editor:
President Aleksandr Lukashenko's victory in Belarus's farce of a referendum on constitutional revisions demands deeper analysis than given in your Nov. 22 editorial and Nov. 25 news articles. 
Even before the referendum, Mr. Lukashenko had consolidated political control. So what did he hope to gain?
Mr. Lukashenko's aim has been to purge opposition voices in the parliament and the Constitutional Court lest they wake up and realize that the executive branch has been engaged in subverting the sovereignty of Belarus for the sake of the personal ambitions of its President for a role in Russian politics.
During the Soviet period, Belarus had one of the highest standards of living in the Soviet Union. While its economic performance was hardly stellar under Prime Minister Vyacheslav F. Kebich, in the past year alone Mr. Lukashenko has squandered central bank reserves to dangerously low levels in defending unrealistic exchange rates, suspended the registration of new enterprises, spurned World Bank assistance, stalled privatization and granted exclusive importation of tobacco and alcohol products to companies with reported ties to his administration.
If Mr. Lukashenko can keep Belarus on its current course toward economic collapse, he will provoke a crisis that, depending upon its severity and who is at Russia's helm, may prove sufficient to bring about full reunification with Russia and create opportunities for him to establish domestic political support in Russia. Full union with the Russian federation would be the entry he needs.
 
JILL CETINA
Princeton, N.J., Nov. 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (53%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); BELARUS (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); BELARUS (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSTITUTIONS REFERENDUMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); EXCHANGE RATES (53%); 

PERSON: CETINA, JILL

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



50 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Under Cuban Ferns, A Very Small Frog

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN 

 BODY:
FORGET Japan or Silicon Valley: the latest word in miniaturization may well be from Cuba, where a frog the size of a fingernail has been discovered on a remote mountainside.
The frog is the smallest terrestrial vertebrate, or tetrapod, in the Northern Hemisphere. At an average length of about 10 millimeters, or two-fifths of an inch, it is just a millimeter shy of the smallest tetrapod in the world, a frog found in Brazil in 1971. 
 The creature was collected by Alberto R. Estrada, a Cuban zoologist, during an expedition in 1993. It has been described as a new species, of the genus Eleutherodactylus, by Mr. Estrada and a longtime collaborator, Blair Hedges, an assistant professor of biology at Pennsylvania State University, in a paper to be published this month in the journal Copeia.
"It's not one of those things where you go out and search for the largest or smallest," Dr. Hedges said in a telephone interview. "You just sort of stumble onto it."
Mr. Estrada collected four of the frogs, three males and a female, on Monte Iberia, a 2,300-foot mountain near Cuba's eastern tip. He said he found them under ferns after hearing high chirps that reminded him of another tiny species, Eleutherodactylus limbatus.
"I thought, oh, limbatus is here," he recalled in a telephone interview from Cuba. But looking at the frogs closely, he noticed a copper stripe on the dark brown skin of the back, and realized he had a new species.
That such a Lilliputian creature would be found on an island is not surprising, Dr. Hedges said. The West Indies in particular are populated with many species that are among the smallest, or largest, of their kind.
The reason is an evolutionary one, Dr. Hedges said. Since relatively few species migrate across water to an island, there are many open "niches," which would have been occupied by other species, for the successful ones to expand into. It is as if in a neighborhood with no bullies, a nice kid turns nasty to fill the void.
In the case of the frog, Dr. Hedges said, there might have been a niche for a small insect-eating creature, perhaps an invertebrate, that was absent from Cuba. The tiny frog would have evolved from an ancient, larger relative, with smallness being favored as a trait that enabled the frog to fill the niche and thrive.
But once-favorable conditions are fast becoming unfavorable. In much of the West Indies, tropical forests are quickly disappearing. "When the forest goes, no more frog," Dr. Hedges said.
In Cuba the forest is particularly vulnerable because of the nation's economic chaos. With an energy shortage on the island, Cubans have taken to cutting down timber for charcoal, quickly denuding large areas.
Food shortages among Cubans also endanger some larger species. The frogs, of course, are not going to be anyone's dinner, or, considering their size, even an hors d'oeuvre. But they do have to worry about vertebrate predators like snakes, Dr. Hedges said. And because they are so tiny, they may also be prey for centipedes or scorpions. "When you get down that small," he said, "you have to deal with the invertebrates, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The smallest frog in the Northern Hemisphere, found in Cuba, is shown on a Cuban 10-cent coin, the size of a nickel. Its discoverer, Alberto R. Estrada, describes it as a new species in the genus Eleutherodactylus. (M. Lammertink)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); BRAZIL (90%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); BRAZIL (90%); UNITED STATES (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FROGS BIOLOGY (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); MOUNTAINS (78%); RAIN FORESTS (76%); ZOOLOGY (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (63%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (60%); 

PERSON: ESTRADA, ALBERTO R; FOUNTAIN, HENRY

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



51 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2059 words

HEADLINE: Neutrino Hunters Cast Nets Far and Deep

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE 

 BODY:
FROM the hinterlands of Siberia to the Ionian Sea, and from mountain ranges in the United States, Japan and Europe to the South Pole, physicists are casting their nets in hopes of landing a bountiful catch of neutrinos from the Sun and stars.
An international neutrino hunt, costing hundreds of millions of dollars, is entering a crucial phase, aiming to resolve fundamental scientific questions about the ultimate roots of matter, and the past and future history of the universe. Specifically, neutrino experiments now beginning may yield an improved estimate of the mass of the universe, a better idea of how the Sun and other stars burn their fuel and new systems for peering through opaque dust clouds into the cores of distant galaxies. As a bonus, at least one major neutrino detector might see a sign that all the atoms in the universe are doomed to eventual decay. 
 If answers to any of these questions turn up, their discoverers are nearly certain to garner Nobel Prizes in physics, and a race is on for discoveries that experts believe must lie just over the horizon.
But nature has not made the quest easy; Dr. Donald Perkins, a theoretical physicist at Oxford University in England, warned in a symposium last month that "you can generally make money by betting against the success of neutrino experiments."
One reason is that neutrinos are enormously difficult to study. Neutrinos, which bombard Earth in astronomical numbers, can pass through matter with only a minuscule chance of hitting any atom and thereby betraying their presence. Indeed, neutrinos, which have no electric charge and little or no mass, cannot be detected directly. Neutrino detectors must record the effects of these rare collisions with atoms, or measure losses in particle energies attributable to the emission of neutrinos.
Some ambitious neutrino experiments have already come to grief. One, known as Dumand, for Deep Underwater Muon and Neutrino Detector, which was led by scientists from the University of Hawaii, sought to install detectors in deep water off the coast of Hawaii's Big Island. But leaks and broken connections caused one expensive problem after another, and money for the project by the Department of Energy was recently ended.
Late last month, a collaboration of Greek and American physicists called Nestor (an acronym for Neutrinos from Supernova and Teravolt sources, Ocean Ridge) began lowering instrument-laden platforms resembling umbrellas from a barge into the deepest part of the Mediterranean Sea off the southwest coast of Greece to test a system that will look for neutrinos coming up from the ocean floor. As in other neutrino searches, the entire Earth is used as a filter to screen out extraneous particles that could be mistaken for neutrinos from the distant reaches of space.
A much smaller scale Nestor experiment has been in progress since 1991, but the success or failure of the latest effort could make or break the project's prospects for financing. Its leader, Dr. Leonidas Resvanis of the University of Athens, said in an interview, "Right now, we're hedging our bets by praying to both Saint Nicholas, the benefactor of seamen, and Poseidon, the Greek god of the seas."
An equally tense time will begin at the South Pole on Thursday, when physicists and technicians from the University of Wisconsin and the University of Stockholm begin a hot-water drilling project in which seven long "strings" of detectors will be lowered into the ice sheet to a depth as great as 1.2 miles. The South Pole experiment, called Amanda, for Antarctic Muon and Neutrino Detector Array, planted eight strings of detectors in the South Polar ice in previous years, but the first strings were not deep enough to get the desired results. This year, said Dr. Francis L. Halzen of the University of Wisconsin, the team expects the completed array of detectors to work as planned. Like Nestor, Amanda needs to get significant results fairly soon to stay in business.
Also struggling to stay alive is a deep-water neutrino search by Russian physicists using an array of detectors suspended in the depths of Lake Baikal in Siberia. Although the experiment has made progress since 1993, economic conditions throughout the former Soviet Union have choked off money not only for experiments but to pay the scientists who conduct them.
The difficulty of catching neutrinos on the fly was dramatically underscored on Feb. 23, 1987, when a supernova blazed into view in Southern Hemisphere skies -- the closest stellar explosion to Earth in 400 years. At nearly the same time the supernova light reached Earth, a blast of neutrinos was detected in both Japan and the United States. A Japanese scientist noted later that although an estimated 60 billion neutrinos from the supernova must have passed through every square centimeter of a big Japanese detector during the 10-second supernova burst, only 11 neutrinos were actually snagged.
Another problem all neutrino detectors face is "noise" -- subnuclear events that look exactly like those caused by fleeting neutrinos, but which are actually caused by something else. The main culprit is a particle called the muon -- a short-lived particle often spawned by cosmic rays hitting Earth's atmosphere. Muons survive their births only a tiny fraction of a second, but a high-energy muon can penetrate a half mile of concrete before it decays. If a muon happens to hit a neutrino detector consisting of water, it creates the same kind of light signal used to detect neutrinos.
For all neutrino detectors, it is vital to screen out particles like muons and cosmic rays that can simulate neutrino collisions. For this reason, all neutrino detectors look down through the Earth rather than up into the sky. The Earth thus screens out most of the spurious particles coming from the downward direction. To reduce contamination from particles other than neutrinos arriving from above, detectors are always built either deep underground in metal mines, or with a thick layer of water or ice above them.
Japan has become the main center of attention in the neutrino race.
Last April, Japanese physicists, in collaboration with scientists from the Universities of Hawaii, Maryland, Washington, California (at Irvine) and other American institutions, completed a gargantuan neutrino detector costing around $100 million, named Super Kamiokande. "Super Kam," as its contingent of American scientists call it, is a cavern the size of a large cathedral excavated a mile deep in the Kamioka zinc mine 180 miles northwest of Tokyo. Inside the cavern is a cylindrical tank that contains 50,000 metric tons of ultra-pure water and an array of 11,242 photo multiplier tubes. Each one of these strategically placed tubes can detect, amplify, measure and time the faintest flash of light passing through the water.
When a neutrino beats the odds by colliding with an electron orbiting an atomic nucleus within a water molecule, the electron -- which has both electric charge and mass -- recoils violently. As it streaks through the water at a speed faster than the speed of light in water, it is forced to shed energy in the form of blue Cherenkov light. (According to the Special Theory of Relativity, the speed of light in a vacuum is an absolute speed limit. But light travels somewhat more slowly through dense materials like water.)
The flash of Cherenkov light spawned by the recoiling electron propagates through water in the form of a cone, and the higher the energy of the incoming neutrino, the tighter is the resulting cone of light. By measuring the cone angle physicists indirectly measure the energy of the neutrino.
Super Kam has yet to produce striking results, but its observations began only seven months ago and experimenters say it will need time to achieve great things. Because the detector can measure not only the energies of incoming cosmic neutrinos but can pinpoint the places in the sky from which they came, Super Kam is regarded as a powerful neutrino "telescope."
Dr. John G. Learned of the University of Hawaii, one of its users, said in an interview that the detector could measure neutrinos in a wide range of energies: from 5 million to 20 million electron-volts for neutrinos coming from the Sun and some supernovas, up to several billion electron-volts for neutrinos from other sources, including the possible decay of protons. (Several experiments elsewhere have shown that if protons decay at all, their average lifetimes must be vastly longer than the present age of the universe. Still, if protons decay at all, however rarely, the eventual annihilation of every atom in the universe would be assured.)
One of the major goals of neutrino physics is to determine whether at least some neutrinos have any mass, slight though it must be.
To settle this question requires a search for neutrino "oscillations" between three different neutrino types; if such transformations take place at all, they imply that some neutrinos must have mass.
Such a discovery would force a reassessment of some widely held assumptions of particle physics. It would also mean that neutrinos must make a significant contribution to the overall mass of the universe, since these fleeting particles are so numerous. Oscillating neutrinos could also explain the vexing puzzle of why far fewer neutrinos are detected coming from the Sun than are predicted by theories of how the Sun burns its fuel. If some neutrinos escape detection by oscillating into forms that are not seen by existing apparatus on Earth, an improved tally of both seen and unseen neutrinos could eliminate the anomaly. If not, it may be necessary to revise the current theories of how the Sun burns its fuel.
Although most neutrino detectors look for natural cosmic sources of neutrinos, several detectors will also study the long-range behavior of intense man-made beams of neutrinos shot by particle accelerators at a grazing angle through Earth's crust.
In Japan, the KEK accelerator's 12-billion-electron-volt proton beam line at Tsukuba is being modified to blast a beam of protons at a slight downward angle into a metal target. The resulting collisions will produce a torrent of particles that quickly decay, spawning (among other things) a fairly thin but extremely intense beam of high-energy neutrinos.
The neutrino beam will slice into the ground and emerge 155 miles away at Super Kamiokande, where detectors will look for evidence of oscillations during the particles' voyage through 155 miles of Earth. (One theory predicts that passage through massive matter can encourage neutrinos to transform themselves from one type to another.) The KEK-Kamiokande neutrino link is scheduled to begin operation in 1999, and in 2002, Dr. Learned said, the beam will be increased in power to "be a real barn burner."
In the United States, the Fermilab accelerator at Batavia, Ill., is undergoing construction that will enable it to send a very powerful neutrino beam through the curving surface of Earth 460 miles to a big neutrino detector excavated within the Soudan iron mine north of Duluth, Minn. This $130 million experiment, named Minos, for Main Injector Neutrino Oscillation Search, has been approved by the Department of Energy, and is to begin operation in 2001, about two years after the Japanese experiment begins.
In a third similar experiment, CERN, the European Laboratory for Particle Physics, is considering aiming a neutrino beam from the proton accelerator it is building near Geneva. The beam would be aimed at the liquid-metal Gran Sasso neutrino detector 455 miles away, near Rome.
Physicists are already discussing a proposed international neutrino detector 1.3 billion cubic yards in volume, filled with a water or ice and studded with hundreds of thousands of photo multiplier detector tubes. The larger a detector is, the better chance it has of catching passing neutrinos.
Neutrino experiments have always seemed risky. In 1930, the great physicist Niels Bohr made a bet with Wolfgang Pauli, who had predicted the existence of neutrinos, that no neutrinos would ever be found. But in 1957, Frederick Reines and Clyde L. Cowan turned up unmistakable evidence of the neutrino's existence.
"Fortunately, it doesn't always pay to bet against neutrinos," Dr. Perkins said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Interior of unfinished Super Kamiokande neutrino detector, a mile under ground. (Kamioka Observatory)(pg. C1)
 
Diagram: "Using Earth as a Particle Sieve"
In the search for neutrinos from space, scientists are using the earth as a filter for muons and other particles that could be mistaken for them. Detectors like the one below, positioned around the earth, look for the rare neutrino that penetrates the earth and collides with a proton or electron. The struck particle recoils, giving off a cone of light; the higher the energy of the neutrino, the tighter the cone. (Source: Sky & Telescope/Illustration by John Papasian)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); JAPAN (90%); GREECE (79%); ENGLAND (78%); ANTARCTICA (78%); MEDITERRANEAN (77%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (93%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (59%); UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (59%); UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIBERIA; ANTARCTIC REGIONS; JAPAN; EUROPE; UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); JAPAN (90%); GREECE (79%); ENGLAND (78%); ANTARCTICA (78%); MEDITERRANEAN (77%); HAWAII, USA (93%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: PHYSICS; NEUTRINOS; RESEARCH PHYSICS (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); EMISSIONS (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); POWER FAILURES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (64%); OCEANS (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (53%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



52 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: El Bolson Journal;
Fear of a Virus, and Fear Itself, Stun a Resort Town

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: EL BOLSON, Argentina, Nov. 27

 BODY:
For decades hippies, artists and nature lovers from around the world have been drawn to the crystalline waters, virgin forests and vast wilderness of this quiet resort town in the southern Andes Mountains of Patagonia.
Surrounded by snow-covered peaks and overlooking sparkling blue-green lakes, El Bolson is as idyllic as ever. But few outsiders dare set foot here these days, since an outbreak of hanta virus has killed 10 townspeople in the last three months. 
 Town officials say widespread fear of the often-deadly virus, which is transmitted to humans through the droppings of field rodents, has ruined the local economy and left this town of 18,000 virtually isolated.
Tourism operators said all reservations for hotels and nature excursions had been canceled at the start of the region's busiest season. Neighboring towns have refused to accept the fruits, vegetables and chickens that were once the pride of El Bolson.
The decades-old weekly arts and crafts fair has been canceled indefinitely for lack of patrons, and some bus companies have eliminated El Bolson, which is 1,200 miles south of Buenos Aires, from their routes.
Several residents of El Bolson say their relatives in distant cities are afraid to visit them and have offered to take care of their children until the epidemic passes.
"We are in a state of crisis," said the town's Mayor, Jose Alberto Dirazar. "No one wants anything to do with anyone or anything from Bolson. We are being treated like a leper colony."
Mr. Dirazar said such fears were unfounded because it was almost impossible to contract the hanta virus by merely visiting the town or eating produce grown here. The Mayor also noted that cases of hanta virus had been reported in other Argentine cities in the far north and close to Buenos Aires, yet no one was boycotting those areas.
Indeed, health officials in Argentina and the United States said that while 10 deaths from hanta virus in three months were cause for concern, people traveling to affected areas should do so without fear.
The officials advised visitors to avoid contact with rodents or dwellings infested with the animals until such lodgings were disinfected. They do not recommend camping on the ground.
People become infected with the virus by coming into contact with rodent droppings or inhaling dust that has been contaminated with rodent urine. The virus cannot be transmitted from one person to another, the officials said.
In a show of support for the town, President Carlos Saul Menem and his Cabinet flew to El Bolson on Tuesday to hold their weekly meeting.
"Solidarity is not shown by words but by deeds," said Mr. Menem, who slept overnight in a tourist cabin. "That's why we've come here to work and find solutions for these people."
While many townspeople expressed gratitude for Mr. Menem's support, others said the President's visit was purely political and would do little to abate fears or resolve the town's economic predicament. The Government has not said what it plans to do to help El Bolson.
Pablo and Beatrice Carretero, who grow vegetables near the town's airstrip, said they had lost 50 percent of their sales after merchants in the nearby ski resort of Bariloche refused to receive their produce, which is rotting in the fields.
Several markets and restaurants in Bariloche have posted signs saying they do not sell or serve products from El Bolson.
But the Carreteros said they faulted the news media for fanning fear. "The television reporters have contributed greatly to the hysteria," Mrs. Carretero said. "They made Bolson look as if it were stricken by the black plague by giving people face masks to wear and telling the children to look sad and cry for the cameras."
Eduardo Auer, 40, a chicken farmer, said he used to sell 1,200 hormone-free birds a month, mainly to Bariloche, but that he had sold only 300 chickens in the last 30 days, to people in El Bolson.
"I don't understand it," he said. "Argentines would rather eat chickens that are full of dangerous chemicals, while my chicken coops are full of clean, healthy birds that I can't sell."
In El Bolson, where the long ponytails, beards and beads of the 1960's are still in vogue, people continue to go about their daily routines, although many say their resources are running low.
Residents have taken extreme measures to guard against the spread of the virus. They thoroughly clean or remove their shoes before entering homes. Hardware and pet stores say they are selling out of cats, mousetraps and disinfectant.
While most residents of this sleepy town have reacted calmly to the hanta virus scare, rumors circulate daily that yet another person has contracted the virus, especially if that person has the flu or a fever. Hanta virus causes high fever, extreme respiratory problems and kidney failure.
But there is one place in El Bolson where even townspeople will not tread. That is the house and rental cabins of the Nasif family, where at least six people are believed to have contracted the virus. Three have died.
Noemi Nasif and her husband, Remigio Gonzalez Moreno, a former Buenos Aires judge, contracted the virus while attending funeral services in El Bolson for Mrs. Nasif's mother and brother, who died of hanta virus infections in September.
A family employee also died of the virus. The dead and the living are believed to have contracted the virus inside the Nasif house or cabins. It is unclear why the dwellings were not disinfected after the mother and brother became ill.
"People are scared even to walk down the same side of the street as the house," said Oscar Hector Arauna, a real estate broker. "Some have even suggested burning it down."
Luis Videla, 44, an American former executive for a United States weapons contractor, who came to El Bolson to write poetry three years ago, said he believed that the epidemic was a blessing in disguise.
"Personally, I am cheering for the rodents," Mr. Videla said. "They have single-handedly stopped the capitalist influx that was spoiling Bolson. This is a paradise, and nature plans to keep it that way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An outbreak of hanta virus in the southern Argentine resort town of El Bolson is scaring off outsiders. "We are being treated like a leper colony," said Mayor Jose Alberto Dirazar, shown outside the city hall. (Horacio Paone for The New York Times)
 
Map of Argentina showing location of El Bolson. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ANDES (92%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EL BOLSON (ARGENTINA); ARGENTINA; ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ANDES (92%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HANTA VIRUS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); CITIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); RODENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); MAYORS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); EPIDEMICS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); TOUR OPERATORS (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); TRENDS (63%); BOYCOTTS (62%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN CARLOS SAUL MENEM (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



53 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Strong Rally Propels Dollar To Near 2-Year High vs. Mark

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar surged yesterday in one of its strongest rallies this year, gaining on signs of unexpectedly robust economic growth in the United States and comments by Germany's central banker, who suggested that the dollar should rise further.
At day's end, the dollar was at nearly two-year highs against the German mark and Swiss franc and had broken past 114 yen for the first time in nearly a month. 
 Large orders for dollars from Japan, coupled with broad weakness in the mark and Swiss franc, helped accelerate the dollar's upward move. Traders caught off guard by the advance scrambled to buy the dollar, adding to its strength in what is known as a short-covering rally.
"Primarily it's just momentum," said Elliott Dix, assistant vice president of foreign exchange at the Signet Banking Corporation in Richmond. "A lot of people are saying, 'Holy Smoke, this thing is going to the moon and we might as well ride the trend.' "
In late trading in New York, the dollar rose to 1.5536 marks from 1.5387 marks on Friday, reaching its highest level since Jan. 6, 1995. It also rose to 1.3220 Swiss francs from 1.3053 francs; yesterday's close was the highest since Dec. 27, 1994. The dollar settled at 114.55 yen, up from 113.88 yen. The British pound traded at $1.6807, down from $1.6812.
The dollar derived part of its strength from Hans Tietmeyer, the Bundesbank president, who is the latest and most influential European financial official to talk up the dollar as an indirect way of helping stimulate economic growth in Europe. A more expensive dollar makes European exports more affordable.
"I would have no complaints about a slightly higher dollar," Mr. Tietmeyer was quoted as saying in the German weekly Der Spiegel, which distributed an advance summary of an interview with him.
The dollar picked up momentum in New York trading after the National Association of Purchasing Management's widely followed monthly survey showed a sharp rise in American manufacturing in November, confounding the forecasts of a decrease and the other evidence that has suggested the United States economy was slowing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); GERMAN MARK (77%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); BRITISH POUND (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: TIETMEYER, HANS

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



54 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Clinton's Welfare Challenge

 BODY:
President Clinton's vow to "fix" the welfare law within days of signing it became almost impossible to honor when the Republicans retained control of Congress. The Administration's fallback position is to ask Congress for modest amendments that would restore about $13 billion of the $50 billion in scheduled Federal cuts over the next five years.
In an ideal world, Mr. Clinton would ask for more. But getting the Republicans to agree to even $13 billion in restitution will require a level of personal commitment that exceeds a polite request to Capitol Hill. The G.O.P. leadership shows no interest in reinstating programs that it snuffed out earlier this year. Mr. Clinton will get nowhere unless he works with Republican moderates and makes reforming welfare "reform" a major priority. 
 Broadly speaking, welfare reform means replacing welfare checks with paychecks. Yet the Republicans also decided to siphon more than $20 billion from food stamps -- the nation's only federally funded support system for able-bodied needy people -- and more than $20 billion from aid for legal immigrants. It is these cuts that are most in need of change.
Under the new law, most non-elderly childless adults would not be eligible to collect food stamps for more than three months in any three-year period. Republican leaders defend the provision by arguing that people will not need food stamps once they get public-service jobs. Unfortunately, only about 10 states offer workfare slots to food-stamp recipients. Nearly half the adults in the targeted group, according to estimates by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, have no income at all. Removing their nutrition lifeline is cruel. Congress also cut back food stamps for families with high housing costs.
Further, the new law cuts off legal immigrants from most public assistance. The rationale is that prospective immigrants are admitted only if they can show they will not need welfare. But accidents happen. At the very least, Congress should reinstate food stamps for legal immigrants who become disabled after they arrive in the United States. Even better, legal immigrants should be eligible for health coverage under Medicaid. After all, legal immigrants pay taxes like everyone else.
The new law cries out for other changes as well. Food stamps, for example, would no longer be fully adjusted for inflation. Over time, the value of the subsidy of about 81 cents per meal would shrivel.
Mr. Clinton will have to persuade Congress to make these changes. However, there is one part of the law he alone can control. Congress turned over to the Administration the task of weeding out children currently receiving disability assistance who are not truly disabled. Congressional projections assumed that about 200,000 children would be knocked off the disability rolls. But the number of falsely eligible children is probably much smaller.
If fewer children are knocked off the rolls, welfare costs will be higher than Congress projected. The Administration is now debating whether these higher costs should be covered by the additional $13 billion he will request from Congress. The answer is no. Every dollar of that $13 billion is needed to correct other deficiencies in the new law.
Only Congress can fix this law. Having signed it, however, Mr. Clinton is now obliged to do his part -- and that is to stay the course until Congress softens the cruelest aspects of its handiwork.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); MEDICAID (78%); FAMILY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



55 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Peter F. Bronfman, Industrialist, Dies at 67

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Dec. 2

 BODY:
Peter F. Bronfman, who with his brother, Edward, created one of the most powerful and secretive corporate empires in North America, died on Sunday at his home in Toronto. He was 67.
Peter Bronfman died of cancer, said Robert Harding, president of the Edper Group Ltd., the company of which Mr. Bronfman was senior chairman and founder. 
 One of the richest men in North America, Mr. Bronfman kept a modest profile, shunning personal recognition and many of the trappings of his great wealth. A slight man with a disarming sense of humor, he once described himself as "a kind of nice, humble, easygoing person."
He was known to appear at formal functions in a cardigan sweater, and for a time he kept a large plastic Mickey Mouse doll in his high-rise Toronto office.
In the late 1980's, the corporate empire controlled by Mr. Bronfman and his older brother, Edward, was the largest in Canada, though the complex and often obscure holding companies used by the Bronfmans generally allowed them to operate out of the public eye.
In 1990, Statistics Canada, the Government's information-gathering agency, found that the 360 companies under control of the two Bronfmans represented more than twice the number of companies owned by the Government of Canada itself.
But it was always the other branch of the Bronfman family, which controls the Seagram Company, that received all the attention.
Peter Bronfman did not mind. Whether it was the Trizec Corporation, a major real estate development company that was part of the Edper empire for a time, or the Montreal Canadiens hockey team, for which he developed a true and lasting passion, Mr. Bronfman did not try to run things directly himself, preferring to hire competent managers and then give them a free hand.
When the complex chain of companies he had amassed ran into financial difficulties in 1993 and had to be sold off piece by piece, Mr. Bronfman tried to give the impression that he was not concerned about losing control. "Control by itself is not an important issue," he told Maclean's magazine in 1993. But it obviously was a far more difficult loss than he was at first willing to let on. "Very often in life, you are torn between your heart and your intellect," he said in the same interview.
Peter Frederick Bronfman was born in Montreal in 1929, a son of Allan Bronfman and nephew of Samuel Bronfman, the founder of the Seagram Company. He attended the Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, N.J., and received a bachelor's degree from Yale University in 1952.
In 1959 Mr. Bronfman and his older brother, Edward -- who are sometimes referred to as the Toronto Bronfmans or "the poor cousins" -- were shut out of the Seagram Company when their cousins in Montreal forced them to sell about half of their shares in the distillery.
The two brothers took the proceeds, some $15 million (United States), and established Edper Investments Ltd. The company name, taken from a trust set up for them by their father, is composed of letters from the names Edward and Peter.
That original capital grew over the next 30 years until at one point the total valuation of all the companies controlled by Edper was thought to have exceeded $83 billion (United States).
The influence of the Bronfmans on Canada's economy was substantial, and by 1992 the 40 publicly traded companies in their holdings accounted for more than 10 percent of the Toronto Stock Exchange's value.
One of Mr. Bronfman's great loves was hockey. He and his brother owned the Montreal Canadiens from 1971 to 1978, years in which the team won the Stanley Cup four times. He often visited players after games but never interfered in the running of the team.
Years of recession in Canada and the complexities of keeping the tangle of overlapping controls in line brought Mr. Bronfman's empire close to collapse. By 1993, many of the companies had to be sold off.
Through it all, Peter Bronfman became even more of a figure of media speculation, although he rarely ventured into the public eye.
In a book about the Bronfmans published in 1978, "Bronfman Dynasty," Peter C. Newman, former editor of Maclean's, portrayed Peter Bronfman as a loner whose greatest joy was "walking by himself through the fluorescent desolation of city streets in late-night rain, investigating the radiant miscellanies along the way."
In recent years Mr. Bronfman withdrew even more from the management of Edper, focusing instead on community service. He served as president of Montreal's Jewish General Hospital and was active in many other hopitals and organizations, including Jessie's Center for Teen-agers in Toronto, a home for young unwed mothers.
Mr. Bronfman was recently awarded the Order of Canada in recognition of his service. The Governor General of Canada, the Queen's representative, had been scheduled to present the award formally to Mr. Bronfman at his home today.
In addition to his brother, Edward, 69, Mr. Bronfman is survived by his third wife, Lynda Hamilton Bronfman, two daughters, Linda and Brenda, a son, Bruce, who has been involved in running some of the Edper companies, and six grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter F. Bronfman (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: BAMA (AMS) (84%); BAM.A (TSX) (84%); BAM (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (84%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (69%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); 

COMPANY: BROOKFIELD ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (84%); SEAGRAM CO LTD (69%); MONTREAL CANADIENS (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONTREAL CANADIENS (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (75%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); DEATHS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); ICE HOCKEY (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: BRONFMAN, PETER F; DEPALMA, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



56 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Rift in NATO Over Control Is Delaying Restructuring

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: LISBON, Dec. 2

 BODY:
Disagreement over a French demand that the United States cede control of a major NATO command in Naples to the Europeans has forced allied foreign ministers to delay plans to approve a major post-cold-war military reorganization next week, NATO diplomats said today.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher and other NATO foreign ministers are to meet in Brussels on Monday. But they will have to ask NATO military experts and ambassadors to finish the military restructuring sometime before a summit meeting of alliance leaders next June, European and American officials said. 
 The restructuring is part of a plan backed by the United States to redesign the alliance to insure the security and stability of Europe and American economic and political interests here in the changed geopolitical environment of the 21st century.
At a related European security summit meeting here in Lisbon, President Jacques Chirac of France and Vice President Al Gore agreed today to try to reach an accord on the Naples command in later discussions, a French official said. But an American official said there was now no way to resolve it in time for the meeting of NATO foreign ministers.
NATO's southern command in Naples would run the United States Sixth Fleet in wartime; it has always been commanded by an American Navy admiral.
In a letter to President Clinton last summer, Mr. Chirac said that, with a reduced American presence in Europe, it was time for a European officer to take over the southern command. The United States and the other allies have already agreed to appoint a European deputy for NATO's American military commander in Europe, and to give the European the authority to use weapons and command structures for independent operations, like peacekeeping, in cases where the United States did not want to take part.
But the French President also said agreement on the Naples command was a condition for France to rejoin the military command structure. The United States and its allies are trying to restructure it in a way that gives Europe a greater role in providing for its own security than it had when France pulled out of the military structure 30 years ago.
"The problem is that now the whole reorganization is tangled up with the Naples issue, and it'll have to be resolved at a higher level than the military can take it," a NATO diplomat said.
Recently, French Government officials have suggested a possible compromise that would leave the Naples command in American hands for now but provide for the possibility that it might eventually go to the European allies in the future, NATO diplomats said. But allied military officers have not even begun discussing such a proposal yet.
The United States also took issue here with Russian calls, supported by France, at a meeting of the 55-nation Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe here to give formal treaty status to a charter spelling out the principles of a new European security architecture for the 21st century. A treaty, one American official said, could put the O.S.C.E. into counterproductive diplomatic competition with NATO.
Russia has equal status in the O.S.C.E. with the United States, Canada and the other European and formerly Soviet countries, and sees a threat from an expanded NATO.
Mr. Gore, attending the summit meeting for President Clinton, said the United States wants "to build a strong and cooperative NATO-Russian relationship."
He spoke after Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia repeated his country's objections to NATO's plans to take in, by the end of the decade, some central European countries that want to join.
"We state once again that we are firmly opposed to plans to move the NATO military infrastructure up to our borders," Mr. Chernomyrdin said here. "Yes, Russia has no veto on the expansion of the alliance, but nobody else has a veto on our right to defend our national interests."
Mr. Gore, who also had short private meetings with Mr. Chernomyrdin and with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, who is here with some other Middle East leaders as observers, repeated American assurances that NATO expansion would increase stability and security for all countries in Europe, including Russia.
NATO diplomats said the alliance's foreign ministers' meeting would issue a clear assurance that expansion would not mean the stationing of allied troops or nuclear weapons on the territory of any new members for the foreseeable future.
The leaders agreed today to start discussions in January on modifying a 1990 treaty that limited conventional arms in Europe for NATO and the defunct Warsaw Pact. The modified treaty would limit tanks, cannon and aircraft by countries individually, diplomats said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (96%); BELGIUM (92%); ITALY (92%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); US NAVY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); US NAVY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FRANCE; ITALY; NAPLES (ITALY); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (96%); BELGIUM (92%); ITALY (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); NAVIES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R AL GORE (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



57 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler's November Sales Up Only 1.4%

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 2

 BODY:
The Chrysler Corporation said today that its sales rose 1.4 percent last month, in line with analysts' expectations.
Chrysler's sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and pickup trucks continued to be wildly popular, as sales rose 7.3 percent, to 127,527 in November. But car sales were weak -- they fell 10.6 percent, to 52,101, from the corresponding period last year. 
 Chrysler expects its overall sales to continue strong into 1997. Robert J. Eaton, Chrysler's chairman and chief executive, said, "I think sales are going to continue to be very good, and next year we expect things to continue to be very good."
He also said that throughout the industry, truck sales would continue to increase faster than car sales. "We are going to see faster growth in the mini-van, sport utility and truck areas than we do in passenger cars," Mr. Eaton said.
Chrysler is the first big auto maker to report its November sales results. The General Motors Corporation is expected to report its sales Tuesday, and Ford Motor Company Wednesday.
Chrysler shares slipped 12.5 cents today, to $35.375. G.M. shares edged up 25 cents, to $57.875, while Ford was unchanged at $32.75.
Chrysler's sales had few surprises for Wall Street analysts. "We thought sales would be flattish for Chrysler, down 5 percent for Ford and down 13 to 14 percent for G.M.," Stephen Girsky, an auto analyst at Morgan Stanley, said. Other analysts concurred.
Industrywide sales figures for November are expected to be down. "We are expecting the market to slow down," Mr. Girsky said. "It is not unhealthy; it is just weaker than it was."
Chrysler said its weak car sales simply followed the industry trend. "The car market is softer than the truck market," a spokesman, Michael A. McKesson, said. It expects sales of some models -- the Eagle Talon and Vision, Dodge Avenger and Intrepid, and Chrysler Concorde and Sebring coupe -- to pick up next month as customers respond to a $500 increase in rebates that took effect in mid-November.
Economists say it will be difficult to gauge underlying consumer interest in autos based on November industry sales because it is unclear how October labor unrest at G.M. affected November sales.
Diane C. Swonk, an economist at the First Chicago NBD Corporation, said overall auto sales numbers would look worse than they really were because "we are going to see really weak truck sales at G.M."
Analysts were divided today on whether two large strikes in October had a significant effect on the availability of cars and trucks at dealerships.
Mr. Girsky predicted that the strikes would have a limited effect on G.M. sales, but David M. Garrity, an auto analyst at Smith Barney, disagreed. He predicted weak G.M. car sales, and "probably about half of that is due to the impact of the strikes."
A three-week strike at G.M.'s Canadian operations closed car and pickup truck factories there and caused parts shortages at several large plants in the United States. In late October, a nearly weeklong strike at two important truck factories in the Midwest also briefly closed several other truck factories. The strikes slowed deliveries to showrooms and also retarded the already slow introduction of G.M.'s 1997 models.
Other auto makers reported mixed sales results today. Volvo said its sales fell 3.5 percent in November, while Subaru of America said its sales rose 21.3 percent over the period last year.
Still, Chrysler dealers said they were happy with the November results. Guy F. Williams, a Chrysler dealer in Mystic, Conn., said sales at his dealership last month were about even with strong sales in October and were up nearly 10 percent from November 1995.
"The trucks are pretty hot," Mr. Williams said, especially Jeep's Grand Cherokee. Almost every vehicle in the lineup is selling briskly, he said, with only the Neon and Stratus small cars showing sluggishness. "It has been very steady for us," Mr. Williams said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (62%); JPM (LSE) (62%); 8634 (TSE) (62%); MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (62%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; UTILITY VEHICLES MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); SALES FIGURES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN ROBERT J EATON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



58 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Letters Show How Indonesian Donor Family Lobbied Clinton

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2

 BODY:
Mochtar Riady, an Indonesian businessman with longstanding ties to President Clinton, recommends to the President that the United States normalize ties to Vietnam and pursue trade with China.
Mark Grobmyer, an Arkansas businessman, lets Mr. Clinton know that President Suharto of Indonesia would like to address the Group of Seven industrial nations. 
 And a representative of an Alabama insurance company asks Vice President Al Gore for a letter congratulating his company for forming a venture with a Riady company.
The advice and requests are contained in some of more than a dozen pieces of correspondence described in detail by White House officials today concerning the Riady family, owners of the powerful Lippo Group of Indonesia. The Riadys and associates helped raise millions for the Democratic Party and became a target of Republican attacks.
The letters to and from the White House have been gathered by White House officials preparing to turn them over to Congressional committees looking into fund-raising practices of the Democratic National Committee. The committee has already returned more than a million dollars in contributions it has determined were improper. Most of it was raised by John Huang, a former Commerce Department official who had once been an executive in the United States for the the Riadys. He has since been suspended as a fund-raiser by the Democrats.
White House officials said they were still culling Presidential records and could not yet say whether more letters would be found or when the materials would be delivered to Congress.
Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon, the chairman of the House Rules Committee, meanwhile, wrote to the White House asking why he had not been told of the correspondence in October when he asked Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor for information about the Riadys.
"I would appreciate convincing assurances that it was not an attempt to cover up embarrassing information before the election," said Mr. Solomon, Republican of New York. Mr. Solomon responded to an article today in The Wall Street Journal outlining some of correspondence.
As described by the White House, the letters cast little light on the questions Republicans are most interested in: whether the Riadys and their associates had affected American policy toward Asia or benefited from fund raising for Democrats.
Replies to the Riadys and their associates from the President and Vice President, also described by the White House, often seemed little more than form letters. Some of the correspondence was social. Mr. Clinton sent a brief birthday note to Mr. Riady on May 7, 1993, for instance.
A note to the President in June 1993 from Mr. Riady's son James, once a businessman in Arkansas, was about a gift of a figurine and a name plate to the President.
But the letters help paint a picture of the relationship between the White House and the Riady family.
In a four-page letter to Mr. Clinton on March 9, 1993, Mochtar Riady thanked the President for seeing him briefly during Inaugural festivities and then offered detailed advice about how the United States should approach trade relations with Asia.
He argued that the Administration should normalize relations with Vietnam and said he had two managers there looking for investments. Mr. Riady said Suharto, the Indonesian ruler, wanted to attend the G-7 meeting. And he urged that the Administration allow economic engagement with China as the best way to influence its policies. Mr. Clinton in 1992 had criticized President George Bush for trying to use economic ties to change China. But he has followed essentially the same policy.
Mr. Clinton has acknowledged discussing policy with James Riady, but said Mr. Riady never influenced policy decisions. Speaking to reporters today, Mr. Clinton said the March 1993 letter was 'like tens of thousands of other letters I get." He called it "the kind of thing that I think people ought to feel free to write the President about."
The White House press secretary, Michael D. McCurry said the President had been interested in input from executives on economic policy in Asia. And while the Administration decided in 1994 to lift the United States embargo on Vietnam, Mr. McCurry said that "to suggest that any particular individual's views, whether it be a financial contributor or not, would have a disproportionate thinking on the work of the Administration is a little bit less than credible."
In letter to Mr. Clinton in March 1993, Mr. Grobmyer a Little Rock, Ark., lawyer who has been active with the Riadys and others in Asian business, wrote to Mr. Clinton about a recent trip he had taken to Asia. He too said Mr. Suharto wanted to address the Group of Seven.
Mr. Grobmyer said he had spoken to Thomas F. McLarty 3d, then the White House chief of staff, and Nancy Soderberg, an official at the National Security Council, about his trip. He said the Riadys had helped, and attached a thank you note that he said Mr. Clinton might send them.
There is no sign among the correspondence that Mr. Clinton sent such a letter to the Riadys and the United States did not back Mr. Suharto's attendance at the meeting. Instead, Mr. Clinton met Mr. Suharto in Tokyo while the summit took place.
Mr. Grobmyer met Mr. Clinton in the 1970's while a student at the University of Arkansas Law School, where Mr. Clinton was teaching. In March 1993, when Mr. Grobmyer went to Indonesia, his itinerary included a visit with James Riady to East Timor, the former Portuguese colony that was annexed by Indonesia, which has been accused of major human rights abuses. Just a few weeks earlier, the United Nations had passed a resolution, supported by the United States, that criticized Indonesia for human rights abuses in East Timor.
Mr. McCurry said today that Mr. Grobmyer's correspondence to the President had been unsolicited and that he knew Mr. McLarty and Ms. Soderberg from the Presidential transition. He said the White House welcomed "ideas and suggestions" such as those forwarded by Mr. Grobmyer "irrespective of whether one is a campaign contributor."
Vice President Gore also got a letter in 1994 about the Riadys. The White House has found the second page of a letter to the Vice President from W. Blount of the Protective Life Corporation saying that his company was forming a joint venture with one of the Riady companies, the Lippo Group. He asked for a letter of congratulations, noting that it would help with the Riadys if the letter affirmed that his company was known to the Administration. Several months later the Vice President wrote to James Riady expressing congratulations on the joint venture. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (96%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (96%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ETHICS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ETHICS (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RIADY FAMILY; MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



59 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Securities Dip in Price

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities stumbled yesterday, after new economic data failed to provide the incentive needed to keep last week's rally going.
The 30-year bond fell 2/32, to a price of 10129/32, pushing the yield up to 6.36 percent, from 6.35 percent on Friday. 
 In the day's first report, the National Association of Purchasing Management's index of manufacturing activity rose to 52.7 in November from 50.2 in October, a signal that the pace of manufacturing is expanding. To market participants, that raised the specter of inflation and increased the odds that the Fed would raise rates to ward it off; thus, they immediately grew cautious. Every component of the index, with the exceptions of exports and prices paid, was up.
The unexpected rise in the purchasing management report drove bond yields up from their lowest levels since March, but short-covering helped trim losses. Also pressuring prices was the Commerce Department's report on construction spending for October, which rose 1.8 percent, following a downward revised 1.2 gain percent during September. There was an unusually strong 5.1 percent surge in October commercial construction.
Some market participants this week will closely follow retail sales for possible clues about the economy's strength. Bill Gamba, senior vice president and head of the government bond trading at Cowen & Company, said of the strong retail sales in this first week of the holiday shopping season: "All year long retail sales have been weak. I don't believe one week of strong retail sales is going to change the economic picture."
David Shabelman, an analyst with MMS International in San Francisco, took an opposite view, saying, "The ringing of cash registers could be greeted with cheers by the nation's retail merchants and jeers by participants in the Treasury market."
"Christmas sales seem to have a better chance at upsetting the market than the employment report," which is due at the end of the week, he said. On the other hand, he noted, "The market is in a particularly bullish seasonal period that could end up being the trump card for the week and keep the market strong through most of December, strong Christmas or not."
Average discount rates at the regular weekly bill sales were down, an indication of good investor demand. The three-month bill averaged 4.98 percent, down from 5.03 percent the week before, while the six-month bill averaged 5.04 percent, down from 5.07 percent. Traders said demand was stronger for the shorter maturity, and while the results were strong over all, they did not believe they had an impact on the market.
The following are the results of yesterday's auction of new three- and six-month bills. On Thursday the Government will be auctioning a new 52-week bill:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.741	97.452	Discounted Rate	4.98%	5.04%	Coupon Yield	5.11%	5.24%	High Price	98.744	97.462	Discounted Rate	4.97%	5.02%	Coupon Yield	5.10%	5.22%	Low Price	98.741	97.452	Discounted Rate	4.98%	5.04%	Coupon Yield	5.11%	5.24%	Accepted at low price	53%	51%	Total applied for	$73,861,141	$44,103,978	Accepted	$14,065,461	$14,123,857	Noncompetitive	$1,411,267	$1,149,316	
 
Both issues are dated Dec. 5, 1996. The three-month bills mature on Mar. 6, 1997, and the six-month bills mature on June 5, 1997. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (67%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (67%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CHRISTMAS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RETAILERS (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



60 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Dairy-Poultry Tariff System Is Upheld

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Dec. 2

 BODY:
A free-trade panel has rejected a United States complaint and upheld Canada's right to protect domestic dairy and poultry products with tariffs and quotas, Canada's Trade Minister, Art Eggleton, said today.
The decision upholds a preliminary ruling made in July by a five-member dispute resolution panel. The United States had complained about Canada's supply management system for dairy and poultry products, contending it violated the North American Free Trade Agreement. 
 The panel unanimously ruled that Canada was within its rights under both that agreement and the World Trade Organization in protecting those products, Mr. Eggleton said.
"That's the end of it," Mr. Eggleton said. "Our operation of the tariff and quota system for dairy, eggs and poultry is absolutely consistent with our W.T.O. and Nafta agreements."
The 250-page decision was reached last week, but it has not been released to the public.
American farmers, backed by the Clinton Administration, argued that tariffs running as high as 300 percent were illegal under the North American accord. The Canadians contended that American officials were trying to use it improperly to overturn longstanding protective measures.
Under previous trade rules, Canada protected farmers with an import quota on United States dairy and poultry products. When the new World Trade Organization banned quotas last year, Canada replaced them with tariffs.
Now, under the trade accord, all tariffs between the United States and Canada must be eliminated by 1998. Canada contended that a grandfather clause in the accord allowed it to keep its tariffs, which it says perform the same function as the old quotas. The United States disagreed.
Eliminating the import tax would have enabled Americans to sell poultry and dairy products in Canada, almost certainly for lower prices. Canadian farmers feared their industry would collapse. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; QUOTAS; POULTRY POULTRY (94%); MEATS (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); 

PERSON: EGGLETON, ART (MIN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



61 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Keating S.& L. Conviction
Thrown Out by U.S. Judge
Charles H. Keating Jr., whom the Government once called the most notorious swindler in the savings and loan crisis, had his last criminal conviction thrown out by a Federal judge after four and a half years in prison. 
 Judge Mariana Pfaelzer ruled after a hearing in Los Angeles that Mr. Keating's conviction was tainted because several members of the Federal jury knew of and improperly discussed his earlier conviction on state fraud charges. [Page A1.]
 
High Court Hears Anti-Ad Case
The Supreme Court, which has long agreed on commercial First Amendment rights, heard the other side of the coin: whether businesses may decline to take part in a Government-required ad program. A group of California growers challenged it. [A1.]
 
Economy Shown Getting Stronger
Economic strength was shown by two measures, in contrast to other recent data that showed a cooling economy. The National Association of Purchasing Management's index rose to 52.7, and construction spending rose 1.8 percent in October. [D7.]
 
Dow Unchanged as Nasdaq Gains
The Dow Jones industrial average was unchanged at 6,521.70 after bargain hunters reversed an early slide of nearly 49 points. The Nasdaq index set its sixth straight record, rising 7.21 points, to 1,299.82, as computer-related issues gained. [D6.]
 
Treasury prices fell, pushing the yield on the 30-year bond up to 6.36 percent. [D20.]
 
VW Ignores G.M. in Promotion
Ignoring a General Motors ultimatum, Volkswagen promoted a former G.M. executive who G.M. had demanded be dismissed in the two companies' legal dispute. Volkswagen named Francisco Javier Garcia Sanz to take the seat on the managing board vacated by Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua, the former G.M. executive who was forced to step down at VW last week. [D4.]
 
Merrill Lynch Names President
Merrill Lynch selected Herbert M. Allison Jr. as president and chief operating officer, making him the likely eventual successor to David H. Komansky as chief executive. [D3.]
 
A $50 Million Job Inducement
Michael D. Fascitelli quit his lucrative partnership at Goldman, Sachs to become president of Vornado Realty Trust for a pay package worth at least $50 million. [D3.]
 
Jeeps Send Chrysler Sales Up
Chrysler sales rose 1.4 percent last month, in line with analysts' expectations, as the popular sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and pickup trucks gained 7.3 percent, to 127,527. Car sales fell 10.6 percent, to 52,101. [D2.]
 
Users Overwhelm On-Line Service
Computer users eager to take advantage of America Online's new flat-rate pricing plan overwhelmed the system, causing widespread busy signals across the nation. [D2.]
 
German Banker
Bolsters Dollar
The dollar surged to nearly two-year highs of 1.5536 German marks and 1.3220 Swiss francs. Signs of robust American economic growth helped it, as did comments by Hans Tietmeyer, Germany's central bank chief. [D17.]
 
Discrimination by Circuit City Found
A Federal jury found that Circuit City Stores had discriminated against black employees in promotions at its headquarters. [A18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (63%); GS (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); AOL INC (50%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (92%); JUDGES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); BOND MARKETS (70%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (70%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); 

PERSON: HERBERT M ALLISON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



62 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: JUDGE THROWS OUT KEATING'S VERDICT

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 2

 BODY:
Charles H. Keating Jr., whom Government officials once characterized as the most notorious swindler in the savings and loan crisis, had his last remaining criminal conviction thrown out by a Federal judge today.
Judge Mariana Pfaelzer ruled after a hearing in Federal District Court here that his conviction was unfairly tainted because several of the members of the Federal jury knew of and improperly discussed his earlier conviction on state fraud charges. That conviction was thrown out earlier this year. 
 Mr. Keating, 72, had served four and a half years of a 12 1/2-year sentence on charges of securities fraud, conspiracy and racketeering after the collapse of the institution he ran, Lincoln Savings and Loan of Irvine, Calif. He was released from a Federal prison in Arizona on Oct. 3 on bail to await the hearing today.
It is unclear how the Government will respond to the ruling, but it was an embarrassing setback both for the prosecutors and for Federal regulators, who had long maintained that much, if not most, of the losses from the savings and loan crisis were the result of criminal schemes like those they said were engineered by Mr. Keating.
The United States Attorney here can appeal the decision, retry the case or drop it.
After the judge's ruling, Sharon McCaslin, the assistant United States attorney who argued the case, said the Government would "absolutely" retry Mr. Keating. But the United States Attorney's office here later said that it would review the case and its options before making a formal decision.
Some legal experts said that the prospect of a successful retrial did not appear strong because several of the main witnesses against Mr. Keating, former executives at his holding company, the American Continental Corporation, have long since pleaded guilty to criminal charges and have served their sentences. It would be difficult for the Government to persuade such witnesses to offer damaging testimony once again.
"It makes you wonder about the quality of the Government's work in prosecuting this case," said James L. Pierce, an economics professor at the University of California at Berkeley and the executive director of a bipartisan commission that studied the savings and loan crisis for Congress several years ago.
"This is a little frustrating," he said, "and it sends the wrong message. But it does underscore that what happened was a systemic failure for which the Government had primary responsibility. It wasn't just a bunch of individual criminals."
Indeed, Mr. Keating has long contended that Government incompetence caused the collapse of the institution.
His lawyer, Stephen Neal, said outside the courthouse, according to the Reuters news service, that "the notoriety of the defendant and public venom toward him should not be an occasion to ignore applicable legal standards."
Lincoln Savings and Loan was seized by Federal regulators in 1989, and it eventually cost taxpayers $3.4 billion to clean up. Mr. Keating controlled Lincoln through American Continental, based in Phoenix. Its collapse also ended up costing individual depositors, many of them retirees, nearly $250 million because they bought bonds in Mr. Keating's holding company in the mistaken belief the bonds were Government insured.
The reversal of the criminal convictions does not affect a $1.6 billion civil judgment that the bondholders won against Mr. Keating several years ago. Those bondholders have now collected approximately 74 cents for every dollar they had invested.
Mr. Keating's son and co-defendant, Charles Keating 3d, who was convicted on the same charges, also sought to have his case overturned. The son, who is penniless, was represented by the public defender. But the judge said today that she would consider the son's case further before rendering a decision.
The victory for the elder Mr. Keating is another milestone in the career of one of the most flamboyant and contentious savings and loan owners who fell during the debacle of the 1980's, a man who has insisted the Government caused the crisis.
He had been a tireless campaigner against pornography and a dabbler in politics in Ohio when he moved to Phoenix in 1984 and began to move aggressively into real estate development through American Continental and Lincoln Savings.
A month after Mr. Keating's company acquired Lincoln Savings in February 1984, the Government began investigating because of the company's surging growth. By April 1987, some regulators were already recommending receivership for Lincoln, but that only prompted an accelerated campaign to sell more bonds to depositors and a effort by Mr. Keating to obtain influence in Washington.
He provided large campaign contributions to five United States Senators -- Alan Cranston of California, John Glenn of Ohio, Donald W. Riegle Jr. of Michigan and Dennis DeConcini of New Mexico and John McCain of Arizona -- and persuaded them to lobby savings regulators on his behalf. The five Senators were later sharply criticized because of those efforts.
Lincoln Savings was seized in 1989 and the Government laid out a case of widespread fraud and argued thatMr. Keating had systematically brought the savings institution to its knees with self-dealing and ill-considered investments.
Judge Stanley Sporkin, who presided in one civil suit, wrote: "Bluntly speaking, their actions amounted to a looting of Lincoln. This was not done crudely. Indeed, it was done with a great deal of sophistication."
One sales document introduced in the civil trial exhorted Mr. Keating's salesmen with the words, "And always remember the weak, meek and ignorant are always good targets."
But Government pressure eventually caused the empire to unravel and brought convictions or plea agreements from a number of Mr. Keating's executives. The law firms and accounting firms that worked for him had to pay tens of millions of dollars for not stopping the fraud. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN (IRVINE, CALIF) CONTINENTAL CORP (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN (IRVINE, CALIF)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; JURY SYSTEM; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (92%); JUDGES (91%); VERDICTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); WITNESSES (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); APPEALS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); PRISONS (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: KEATING, CHARLES H JR; PFAELZER, MARIANA (JUDGE) CHARLES H KEATING JR (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



63 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Roby Journal;
Town of Empty Pockets Finds Manna in Lottery

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: ROBY, Tex., Dec. 2

 BODY:
"We're your typical little West Texas town, struggling real hard not to fade away," says Bill Brzezinski, the proprietor of the Silver Star Cafe on Highway 180 here. "Everything depends on oil, cows and cotton, and the oil's all but gone, the cattle market is way down, and the cotton crop's been terrible the last three years now."
Mr. Brzezinski says all this with a smile. "Of course, though, that woman over there, she's a millionaire. There's another millionaire! There's a millionaire in that pickup that just drove by. And look! Here comes a millionaire walking into my restaurant right now!" 
 Roby, population 616, has 39 instant millionaires. The Texas Lottery Commission today confirmed the remarkable news that a pool of struggling farmers, ranchers and store owners here hit the $46.6 million state lottery jackpot last week. As the jokers here have it, Roby (pronounced ROE-bee) has been transformed from an economic hardship case to the town with the highest per-capita population of millionaires in America.
Truth be told, no one in Roby is exactly filthy rich, as the lottery winnings, after taxes, will amount to about $41,000 a year per winner for 20 years. That is more than twice the average yearly income in Roby, said Mayor Cecil King, whose daughter, Kathy, is one of the winners. Still, the bonanza may not stem the long-term forces that have cut the town's population in half since the 1940's and turned much of Main Street into a shuttered graveyard for stores, banks, motels and gas stations.
But for now, it's as though the projectionist had chucked the last reel of the "The Last Picture Show," the classic film about fading small-town Texas, and switched in a miracle twist. Farm families ravaged by a lengthy drought and, just last weekend, by a freeze, are suddenly talking about buying new trucks and maybe even taking winter vacations in Hawaii.
Most of all, they are talking about how "the pressure's been taken off," in the words of 61-year-old Gene Terry, a cotton farmer and lottery winner. "Now I know how I'll be able to make my land payments and my tractor payments."
His brother Vernon, also a farmer and new millionaire, said: "It's not that it's some unbelievable amount of money. What's unbelievable is how many people this has helped."
The winners range in age from 24 to 86, and 21 are descendants (or spouses of descendants) of the original Terry family, which helped settle the town after arriving from Mississippi in 1905 and has been raising cotton since then.
In some lottery stories, small-town winners talk about how their winnings have given them the freedom to move away. In Roby, though, where dozens of young people and their families have had to move away because they could not make a living off their parents' farms, the refrain is the opposite.
"This means we get to stay," said Steve Terry, 41.
Peggy Dickson, 48, a bookkeeper at the Terry Cotton Gin and the organizer of the lottery pool, said: "These are all hard-working people with roots here, and I don't think anyone is going to think about just up and moving away. I think a lot of people are going to put this money back into their farms."
Mrs. Dickson is one of 43 people who each kicked in $10 worth of Quik Pick tickets and will share in the $46.6 million winnings. Thirty-nine are right here in Roby, 45 miles northwest of Abilene; 3 are out-of-town relatives of winners. The remaining victor is Jim Carson, the owner of Longhorn Liquors in Sweetwater, where Mrs. Dickson bought the tickets. Mr. Carson, celebrating with his fellow winners at a lunch here today, said he had kicked in $10 himself on a whim. For selling the ticket, Mr. Carson also gets 1 percent of the jackpot.
Most of the winners work at the gin, but others just happened to be in the right place at the right time. Manuel Valdez, 43, used to work there and happened to stop by last Wednesday for a cup of coffee as Mrs. Dickson was getting the pool together. He kicked in $10.
"This is something totally unexpected and just in time," Mr. Valdez said. "We were really struggling with our restaurant." He and his wife, Susie, have run Susie's Fish & Grill since they gave up farming.
It is possible, of course, that the windfall will create problems of its own. Several winners have already complained of being deluged with offers of "investment advice" from out-of-towners, and there are the slightest signs, good-natured for now, of tension between the winners and everyone else in town.
"For those of us non-winners, there is a bit of anticipation about just how much of a trickle-down effect there's going to be from this thing," Mr. Brzezinski said with a chuckle.
Roby and surrounding Fisher County, of which it is the seat, have been fighting an uphill battle against economic decline for years. As the economic pillars of oil and agriculture have crumbled, county leaders have formed an economic development board and tried to come up with viable alternatives.
A retirement center has opened in town, and the county got a state grant a few years ago to market itself as a paradise for quail hunters. The county's leaders even formed a National Domino Association a few years ago and tried to hold an annual championship tournament.
But none of these schemes have taken off. In the meantime, the drought, which grew most intense last year, has pushed many people to the edge of bankruptcy. Its effects are lingering, even as several heavy rainfalls this autumn have caused many to hope that the drought cycle is easing. Last summer, before any of that rain, Roby was the centerpiece of a long, front-page article in The Dallas Morning News about how small-town Texas was being devastated.
"I've got a pain in my stomach," Mr. Valdez ws quoted as saying. "I wake up and go on the porch with my wife, and we stare at the sky." Gene Terry says in that article: "My farm is my responsibility. I've been waking up with a knot in my stomach."
Now both men have something else on their minds. "I've thought about the drought, and I've thought about a million dollars," Mr. Terry said. "I'd rather think about a million dollars."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manuel and Susie Valdez, foreground, celebrated their good luck yesterday in their restaurant in Roby, Tex., with their fellow lottery winners. Thirty-nine people in a pool in this West Texas town will share a $46.6 million jackpot; each will get $41,000 a year, after taxes, for 20 years. (David Kent for The New York Times)
 
Map of Texas showing location of Roby. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROBY (TEX); TEXAS; UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (96%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); LOTTERIES (92%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); COTTON FARMING (89%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); FAMILY FARMS (73%); FAMILY (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



64 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Mandatory Ads Violate Rights, Fruit Growers Tell Supreme Court

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2

 BODY:
It is settled ground at the Supreme Court that businesses have a First Amendment right, within limits, to advertise their products. An unusual free-speech case argued before the Court today presented the Justices with the other side of the advertising coin: whether businesses have a constitutional right to decline to participate in a Government-required advertising program intended to bolster the health of an entire industry.
Under an agricultural marketing law from the New Deal era, the Federal Government requires companies that pack and ship a variety of products to contribute to industrywide, generic advertising campaigns that urge consumers, for example, to "buy California peaches." 
 In the late 1980's, a group of handlers of California peaches, nectarines, and plums, claiming a First Amendment right not to engage in Government-compelled speech, refused to pay the fees the Department of Agriculture assesses for the program and filed a lawsuit instead. The assessments, based on a charge for each carton of produce marketed, can run to a half million dollars or more for a big farm and generate more than $10 million a year for advertising the California produce at issue in this case.
In a decision last year, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, ruled that the assessments were unconstitutional. The Clinton Administration appealed to the Supreme Court.
During the argument today, it was evident that the Justices were troubled by aspects of the mandatory advertising program, but that they were also not about to declare it unconstitutional lightly. While the Court in general has become more sympathetic in recent years to granting strong constitutional protection for commercial speech, the Justices remain divided on how to approach such cases as a matter of First Amendment doctrine. They are also clearly aware that anything the Court says in the commercial speech area will become constitutional ammunition in the coming battle over regulating cigarette advertising.
Arguing for the Government, Alan Jenkins, an Assistant Solicitor General, urged the Court to view the advertising assessments much as the Court's precedents have treated compulsory union dues for workers and bar membership for lawyers. The Court has held that dues may be required, without violating the First Amendment, even from members who object to particular uses to which the dues are put, as long as the requirement serves an important government interest, such as maintaining a peaceful workplace.
"If I'm an employee who is opposed to maternity leaves, and my union negotiates a maternity leave, I have no First Amendment right" to withhold dues for that reason, Mr. Jenkins said.
Several Justices questioned Mr. Jenkins about the validity of the Government's interest in generic advertising, as opposed to permitting the growers to take the money and spend it on advertising their own products. The producers are free to engage in additional advertising, but some argue that they have no advertising budget left after paying the Government assessments.
"What is the Government's interest that compares to labor peace or to regulation of the bar?" Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg asked Mr. Jenkins, adding, "Why is it so important that we have this advertising?"
Mr. Jenkins said the purpose was to encourage consumer demand and avoid the "economic hardship resulting from fluctuations in prices."
That answer did not satisfy Justice David H. Souter, who pointed out that while peaches were grown in more than 30 states, the Department of Agriculture had put the mandatory advertising program into effect only in California. That was a "peculiarity in this case" that needed more explanation, he said.
Justice Ginsburg added: "It seems to be rather haphazard."
"This argument sounds like something time-warped out of the 1930's," Justice Antonin Scalia told Mr. Jenkins.
The second half of the hourlong argument in Glickman v. Wileman Bros., No. 95-1184, took a different turn. Thomas E. Campagne, a lawyer from Fresno, Calif., representing the fruit handlers, failed to exploit the numerous openings the Government's argument had made for him. Instead, he resisted the Justices' numerous invitations to present a coherent First Amendment theory and kept returning to the details of the fruit business, ignoring warnings that he was turning his constitutional challenge into a mundane administrative-law case in which the Court had little reason to be interested.
"A peach is not a peach, and a plum is not a plum," Mr. Campagne said. His point was that individual growers of proprietary varieties like Red Jim nectarines or Ebony plums were harmed when forced to spend their advertising dollars on generic promotions that essentially tell consumers that all the fruit is alike.
"You don't believe all California peaches are the same," Justice Scalia said.
"Absolutely not," Mr. Campagne replied.
"So you object to being presented to the public as being in league with everyone else, as if 'California peaches are California peaches and California peach growers are California peach growers,' " Justice Scalia continued.
"Absolutely," the lawyer said.
"And you don't like some of those other peach growers very much," Justice Scalia said.
"I want you to buy our yellow nectarines and not their red ones," Mr. Campagne responded.
"I agree with you that a peach is not a peach, I really do," Justice Stephen G. Breyer interjected, to considerable laughter in the courtroom. Justice Breyer added, "But I'm also worried about turning Federal District Courts into regulatory agencies." There are "thousands of regulatory systems" in the country and "millions of members of the public whose money the Government takes to spend on messages they don't agree with," Justice Breyer said, then asked, "What is the First Amendment problem?"
In another commercial speech case today, the Court turned down a First Amendment challenge to a California law that effectively bans the use of a telemarketing tool that dials telephone numbers automatically to deliver a recorded message.
Under the California law, which is similar to a 1991 Federal law and to laws on the books in 40 states, a live operator must first seek consent before playing the recorded message. The challenge to the law was brought by the owner of a carpet cleaning company who generated half his business by using two automatic dialers to place calls from 9 A.M. to 9 P.M. every day. Without comment, the Court today let stand a ruling by the Ninth Circuit earlier this year that the law was a permissible regulation of commercial speech. The case was Bland v. Fessler, No. 96-510. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FRUIT; ADVERTISING; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; LAW AND LEGISLATION STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); APPEALS (90%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (76%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (73%); MATERNITY LEAVE (73%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (73%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (73%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUDGETS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



65 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2625 words

HEADLINE: SHADOW OVER ASIA: A special report.;
China's Military Stumbles Even as Its Power Grows

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: ZHUHAI, China

 BODY:
As Chinese and Russian warplanes performed ear-splitting acrobatics at China's first international air show recently, Su Bichun was working inside the exhibition hall trying to sell to any willing buyer a supersonic cruise missile system that the Chinese Army does not want, possibly because it does not work.
Ms. Su, a metallurgical engineer, said that with a 1,600-pound high-explosive warhead, the C-301 cruise missile is an excellent weapon against large shipping targets. 
 "Including an aircraft carrier?" she was asked.
"Yes, including aircraft carriers -- American aircraft carriers," she added, breaking into a big smile.
As Ms. Su was trying to make a sale, just down the road thousands of soldiers from a Chinese military garrison here were producing the 10 tons of bean curd they sell each day in food stores all over China's richest province, Guangdong, formerly known as Canton. A nearby artillery unit raises chickens and pigs.
As China emerges as a power in Asia, its military, the People's Liberation Army, appears comically distracted by its own commercial pursuits while its combat forces remain technologically backward in weapons and military doctrine.
The rest of Asia, nonetheless, is worried, and with good reason.
More than at any time in recent decades, China is stirring anxiety among its neighbors as a new generation of political leaders give signs that they are willing to use military force -- especially to vanquish the independence movement on Taiwan should it gain power there -- even if it would result in catastrophe. China's belligerence became clear last March, when it fired ballistic missiles at Taiwan's shipping lanes in a warning to voters there who support independence.
And now, as the military's overall influence is rising at the end of the Deng Xiaoping era, so are defense budgets to finance a modernization drive that could give China a much more potent military in the 21st century.
Despite its claim to be the largest standing army in the world with three million soldiers and 4,000 combat aircraft, the Chinese military is still equipped like a fighting force from the 1950's, with a shrinking, outdated navy. If anything, Beijing's military stature derives from its small nuclear force -- about the size of France's -- whose missiles could reach Moscow or Los Angeles.
The military's increasing importance and its critical role in planning for a future Taiwan crisis will only insure that China's uniformed chiefs will play a pivotal role in any succession drama that unfolds after the death of Mr. Deng.
"Even if we say that the military does not aspire to play an overt political role," said Jonathan D. Pollack, a specialist on the Chinese military at the Rand Corporation in California, "we can see at critical junctures in Chinese political history precisely how they have played that role and I don't think there would be any hesitancy to doing it again."
Already, the military's growing influence may be adding to subtle pressures on untested civilian leaders to flex the country's military muscle in foreign policy disputes.
"These are not secure leaders and they have to prove their mettle on questions of sovereignty," said David Shambaugh, director of Asian studies at George Washington University. "They think of force as an instrument of diplomacy and so they may be more prone to act rashly because of the political succession that is going on."
America's dispatch of aircraft carriers to the waters off Taiwan during the crisis last March sobered those same leaders. Now, even as China seeks to avert new diplomatic confrontations with the United States, there are indications that Chinese military planners are putting new emphasis on weapons and strategies to counter American naval forces in the Pacific, especially aircraft carriers. China's strategy, American officials say, reflects the sense of anger over America's intervention and a sense of resignation that the chances of a conflict in the future have increased.
"If they are presented with a direct challenge on Taiwan, I do not think they would hesitate to use force, and the threat of an American intervention would not deter them," said Mr. Shambaugh, echoing an assessment of the Chinese leadership held by many outside specialists today. "The consequences, of course, would be a disaster for Asia," he added.
 
The Weaknesses
Impressive Shell But Hollow Core
Chinese military power today, as an instrument that could be wielded beyond China's borders, is largely an illusion and will remain so for the foreseeable future, most experts agree. With few exceptions, China's armed forces are poorly equipped and trained and would be easily defeated in any encounter with modern forces outside the mainland. Chinese submarines can be heard by sonars all the way to Hanoi, and the Chinese Air Force will not fly near its own ground forces for fear of being shot down, American experts say.
Three Defense Intelligence Agency analysts who reviewed China's 1996 military exercises off Taiwan asserted in an article in October that "as it stands," the Chinese forces pose only a "nuisance threat" to countries on China's periphery "or to military forces in the region."
Former Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara and a group of senior retired American officers said as much in an independent assessment 1994 when they found that, "The overall modernization of China's military forces and the acquisition of the capacity to project military power at significant distances from China's borders is well in the future."
During one Chinese Air Force exercise last summer, a large number of warplanes were set face-to-face in a mock battle. But when the pilots discovered they would have to fly "in unknown conditions" where targets would not be identified in advance and where electronic warfare would be employed, they panicked.
An account of their anxiety in an army newspaper had them asking, "How far should we go with these unknown conditions?" When the pilots slipped into the command center "to make a site survey of the landmarks" near their targets, top officers rebuked them. "During future wars, who will bring you to familiarize yourselves with the landmarks in the enemy's rear?" the commanders asked.
The episode is all too revealing, experts say, of China's military backwardness.
"China can put a very intimidating force opposite Taiwan with 600 or 700 aircraft, but there is a difference between that and being able to launch those aircraft on day two," a former United States Air Force analyst said. "Without reconnaissance, without sustainability, without communications and so many things that they do not have, they have no way of knowing what is going on two minutes after the first shell is fired."
With the gaping technological inadequacies that exist today, much of the Chinese military could quickly be detected and destroyed by the battlefield sensors and weapons demonstrated by the West during the Persian Gulf war.
A retired American naval officer, Rear Adm. Eric A. McVadon, told a conference of government and academic specialists in September that the Chinese Navy "could be destroyed virtually at will whether in port or at sea" and "even the units that have received modern equipment are not capable of technologically advanced warfare." Admiral McVadon was the senior military analyst in the United States Embassy in Beijing during the 1980's.
 
The Strengths
A Budding Interest In New Techniques
Despite the apparent weaknesses in China's military, Central Intelligence Agency analysts have found in recent years that "pockets of excellence" are developing in China's armed forces, where elite units are getting better training and weapons for sophisticated mobile warfare.
In addition, Chinese scientists, assisted by Russia and Israel, are mastering many of the latest defense technologies in their research institutes, where they are building prototypes for supersonic fighters, missiles and battlefield platforms that would give Chinese forces more of an all-weather fighting capability with weapons that could detect and destroy targets beyond the horizon.
A new emphasis on "power projection" has even revived speculation that China might again be shopping for an aircraft carrier, this time from France, which is looking for a buyer for the soon-to-be decommissioned carrier Clemenceau.
Israel is said to be helping China develop an airborne warning and control plane similar to the American Awacs. And Russia has sold advanced diesel attack submarines as well as a production line for the Su-27 fighter, which could be activated in the next decade. China has been working on a supersonic fighter prototype resembling the American F-16, though technical difficulties and financing could delay it indefinitely.
Also, China has been trying since the mid-1980's to develop an aerial refueling system to extend the range of its Air Force, but as the former Air Force analyst said, after a decade "they are still fooling around with the prototypes."
China's high-technology weapons thus remain largely on drawing boards. Western experts say that China would have to undertake a huge spending program over 10 to 15 years to bring these technologies into its armed forces, requiring a major diversion of resources from the civilian economy, something many Chinese would oppose.
"I am very skeptical of the P.L.A. being able to make the kind of concerted, integrated effort that it would take," said June Tuefel Dreyer, a specialist on the Chinese military at the University of Miami. "They can train some elite units, but I don't think they are going to be able to leave their business interests long enough to do anything on a larger scale."
 
The Strategy
An Eye on Taiwan In Making a Plan
Today, teams of planners on the general staff of the People's Liberation Army in Beijing are said by Chinese and Western officials to be working in secret on a large-scale review of how Chinese military forces could overwhelm or wear down Taiwan's defenses without an invasion and of how China might prevent the United States from intervening in a mainland assault across the Taiwan Strait.
If China has learned anything in decades of conflict with Taiwan, it is that an all-out invasion of Taiwan is well beyond its capabilities. The joke commonly heard among Western military experts is that a Chinese assault on Taiwan would have to be called "the million man swim."
Instead, the army is studying blockade strategies that might employ some combination of submarine forces and mine warfare backed up by ballistic and cruise missile batteries on the mainland and other cruise missile systems aboard warships.
"During Mao's time, the idea of attacking Taiwan was just talk," a member of one of China's most prominent military families said in a rare encounter with a foreign journalist this fall. "But now we must plan for this; if Taiwan declares independence, no Chinese leader can tolerate it and stay in power, so the military must build itself up, improving its air and sea forces to prepare for a military attack on Taiwan."
He cited the strategy of Mao calling for war to be waged in stages. "We can blockade, we can absorb blows and we can counterattack," he said. "The Chinese military will concentrate on strike weapons because Taiwan is a small place; they have a lot of weapons from the Americans, and they have spent a lot of money, but when the war starts, they will not be able to get spares and they will not be able to maintain these complicated systems."
He added that "they will be waiting for support while the Congress is debating whether to get involved."
In the Taiwan crisis of 1996, though, the United States mounted an unambiguous response when China escalated its belligerence with missile firings. And Chinese planners understand that any future confrontation with Taiwan will have to deal with American aircraft carriers.
"They would like to devise a strategy that would make the President and American military leaders think twice about sending aircraft carriers," said Admiral McVadon. "The Chinese believe that Americans are unwilling to sustain large numbers of casualties in a conflict. They may be trying to devise a scheme that will threaten many U.S. lives," such as the 6,000-member crew of an American carrier. "The carrier is not the only thing that is troublesome to them, but they seem to focus on that, and I think that is revealing."
It is seen as equally alarming that any military confrontation over Taiwan, even one that did not lead to all-out war, could easily disrupt Taiwan's shipping lanes and much of its commerce and incite civilian panic in a way that could inflict grievous harm to Taiwan's economy. No aircraft carrier could prevent that.
 
The Distraction
In Business Focus, Different Drummer
Whether China is a military Goliath, the larger problem in motivating the rank and file to build a stronger force is that for tens of thousands of officers and hundreds of thousands of soldiers who are living better than at any time since they "liberated" the mainland in 1949, the business of war would be getting in the way of -- well, business.
From vegetable farming, to pharmaceuticals to fiber optics, the People's Liberation Army and its related defense industries have over the last decade "dived into the sea" of business, as the Chinese like to say, marshaling obsolete production lines and jury-rigging new ones to produce anything that sells in a chaotic industrial pattern that seems, in large part, beyond the control of top military and civilian leaders in Beijing.
Military commanders have opened coal mines, karaoke bars and pirate compact disc factories. They have built luxury housing complexes, hotels and office towers and hived off part of their radio frequencies to set up cellular phone networks.
"At the end of the day, this is an army that is more interested in making money than it is in being the guardian of the national interest," said Mr. Pollack of Rand. One American intelligence officer likes to call it "the world's first genuinely entrepreneurial military force."
During the last three years, President Jiang Zemin and the Central Military Commission have been trying to get military units below the group army level to get out of business. But the loopholes are extensive.
"It's entrenched," said an American military official who served in Beijing. "They have to come up with a third of their own budget so they cannot afford to get rid of these businesses."
In October, Gen. Chen Tianlin, chief of the Guangzhou Military Region's general logistics department, bragged in an army newspaper that every regiment, every brigade and every company under his command was setting up "production bases" to raise vegetables, fish, pigs and chickens for the general market and for export.
General Chen noted that an artillery brigade sold 10,000 pigs last year for a profit of more than $40,000; and during the first eight months of this year, a military base in Hainan Island made $36,000 selling eggs from its chicken farm and chicken feed.
In this tapestry of indiscipline, it seems impossible that China's military forces could pose a threat to anyone, yet few doubt Beijing's determination.
"The whole Chinese strategy," said Ms. Dreyer at the University of Miami, "is to blow enough smoke to convince people like me that there is going to be a big, scary Chinese military by 2010, and, therefore, the United States had better accommodate them" on Taiwan and other points of potential confrontation.
The Chinese military, she said, is "potentially scary," but she added, "Making them 10 feet tall is exactly what they want."

GRAPHIC: Photo: China's combat forces are considered to be backward in both weapons and military doctrine, but the country is beginning to turn its attention to new technologies. As they enjoyed China's first international air show recently, members of the Chinese military looked at a Russian An-76 transport. (Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times)(pg. A10)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: The People's Military Forces" lists some highlights of China's military. (Sources: Chinese Government; International Institute for Strategic Studies)(pg. A10)
 
Map of China showing location of Zhuhai. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (94%); ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (51%); 

STATE: GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%); INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TAIWAN; CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (94%); ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (51%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; NAVIES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MILITARY VESSELS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); BUDGETS (85%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); NAVIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); SALES & SELLING (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E; DENG XIAOPING DENG XIAOPING (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996



66 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Fails to Extend Rally As the Pound Drops Sharply

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The British pound fell sharply yesterday in a round of heavy profit taking after its recent run-up.
The selloff mainly strengthened the German mark and the Japanese yen, pulling down the dollar against the yen and preventing the dollar from holding on to most of its early gains against the mark. On Monday, the dollar had jumped to nearly two-year highs against the mark and the Swiss franc. 
 Traders said the pound's drop was caused by concerns expressed by British exporters about a strong pound, which makes their goods more expensive overseas, as well as the possibility that Britain might participate in Europe's currency union in two years.
Prime Minister John Major of Britain denied reports yesterday that he was ready to rule out Britain's participation. That undermined the pound's allure as a possible haven from any monetary uncertainties created in Europe.
"There was a lot of selling of sterling for marks and sterling for yen, and that weighed on the dollar," said Jim Powers, a vice president at Westdeutsche Landesbank in New York. "We had seen a lot of people building up sterling, and now there's a major unwinding of these positions."
Late yesterday in New York, the pound cost $1.6445, down nearly 2.2 percent from $1.6807 on Monday. Against the mark, the pound declined more than 3 percent from the highest point of yesterday's session.
The dollar ended at 1.5568 marks, up marginally from 1.5536 marks on Monday but well below its session high yesterday of 1.5730 marks. The dollar ended at 113.29 yen, down from 114.55 on Monday.
The dollar still ended the day sharply higher against the French franc and the Italian lira. That performance was aided by remarks by William McDonough, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, who said in Hong Kong that the dollar could become Europe's reserve currency until the single European currency was able to establish itself.
The pound's appreciation has been one of the notable currency trends this year, powered in part by a healthy British economy and rising interest rates. Even with yesterday's drop, the pound is still nearly 6 percent above where it traded against the dollar at the start of this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (91%); GERMANY (90%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (82%); WESTLB AG (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; JAPAN; EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (91%); GERMANY (90%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (69%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); EURO (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



67 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Leading Index Rises Again; Sales of New Homes Plunge

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Two reports issued yesterday showed a moderating economy, further muddling the picture a day after signs of strong growth emerged.
The Conference Board said yesterday that its index of leading economic indicators rose by one-tenth of a percent in October, its ninth consecutive monthly gain. Separately, the Commerce Department reported that sales of new homes plunged 8.7 percent in October, to the lowest level in seven months. 
 Those figures followed reports on Monday of brisk holiday retail sales, strong construction spending in October and a strong gain in manufacturing in November.
Kathy Bostjancic, money market analyst at UBS Securities Inc. in New York, said yesterday's reports added evidence that the economy was slowing down but not entering an outright contraction. The numbers released on Monday were surprisingly strong, she said, against a background of languishing growth.
Yesterday's reports come amid other signs of moderating economic growth such as flat personal incomes in October. Wall Street has welcomed hints of slow growth, which would continue to keep inflation in check and would probably prevent the Federal Reserve from raising interest rates.
The October reading of 103.6 for the index of leading indicators compares with a revised September level of 103.5 and a revised August reading of 103.3. The index operates from a base of 100, set in 1987, and is designed to forecast economic activity six to nine months in advance,
Of the index's 11 components, six rose in October. The biggest gains came in stock prices and in manufacturers' orders for consumer goods and materials. The component hurting the index most was a drop in the factory workweek.
"This report really didn't reveal any fresh development in the economy," said Kevin Flanagan, a money market economist at Dean Witter, Discover & Company. "It is saying no slowdown of major proportions will hit," but the economy should continue to grow, he said.
While the index was first calculated in the late 1960's, it is periodically fine-tuned and figures from past years are revised using the current construction. The October reading represents a record high, as has each index since June.
Two sister indexes, showing coincident and lagging indicators, both fell. The index of coincident indicators, which looks at the economy's current condition, fell one-tenth of a percent in October, and the lagging indicators index, which looks backward, declined one-tenth of a percent for the month.
The Conference Board, a private research group in New York, took over compiling of the leading index from the Commerce Department late last year.
The Commerce Department said sales of single-family homes took place at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 714,000 in October, down from 782,000 in September and the lowest since a 713,000 rate last March.
The drop was the largest since sales plummeted 9.1 percent, also last March. And the report showed sales in September were much weaker than the initial 816,000 estimate a month ago.
Still, sales in October remained above 700,000 for a 10th consecutive month, the longest stretch since a 36-month period between October 1976 and September 1979. So far this year, sales are 13.5 percent above those of the first 10 months of last year.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Leading Indicators" shows an index of 11 indicators designed to predict overall economic activity from May 1995 to Oct 1996. (Source: The Conference Board); "New Home Sales" shows new private homes sold from May 1995 to Oct. 1996. (Source: Commerce Department)
 
Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis" lists componentas of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from September to October. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MORGAN STANLEY (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; HOUSING; SALES ECONOMIC INDICATORS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); RETAIL SALES (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



68 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Have-Nots Need Stake In Mexico, Envoy Says

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 3

 BODY:
One of James R. Jones's most sobering experiences as United States Ambassador here, he says, was a conversation in Tijuana with a cluster of young, unemployed Mexican men waiting for nightfall so they could climb the steel fence along the border.
"The vast majority of these emigrants are young, they have a skill and they're just looking for work," Mr. Jones said. His conversation that night and others with desperate Mexicans seeking a better life have deepened his concerns about the growing gulf between the country's haves and have-nots. 
 "I think we're living on limited time," Mr. Jones said. "This generation of adults will probably survive on hope, but I think over the next five to ten years, if that isn't translated into benefits and real opportunities, you're going to have demagogues rise up who will want to turn the clock back."
Mr. Jones, 57, a former Congressman from Oklahoma and chairman of the American Stock Exchange who arrived here in August 1993, has witnessed one of Mexico's most turbulent periods, marked not only by growing political strife but also by watershed economic change.
During his tenure here, Mr. Jones has been a vigorous promoter of American-style capitalism, and he has rarely publicly expressed concern about the sometimes ruthless free-market system that is emerging as the country dismantles its state-managed economy.
But in a recent interview in which he said he would leave his post early next year to return to the private sector, Mr. Jones warned bluntly that too few Mexicans are enjoying the fruits of the economic reforms.
During the two-hour conversation, Mr. Jones also said that American executives had expressed concern to him about the Helms-Burton Law. The American law aims to isolate Cuba by punishing foreign companies that invest there, but he said the executives had complained that it is instead isolating American corporations throughout the world.
He also described how he worked this year to keep the close ties the Clinton Administration has nurtured with Mexico from becoming an issue in the American Presidential campaign. "I was concerned that the U.S. political dialogue would become too strident or insensitive or offensive to Mexico," he said.
The Clinton Administration has not yet nominated a replacement for Mr. Jones, and he would not say whom he had recommended. But other American and Mexican officials said they believed that Thomas F. McLarty 3d, President Clinton's chief of staff until June 1994, is the leading candidate.
When Mr. Jones arrived here, his first mandate was to use his influence with American business to lobby on behalf of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which Congress approved three months later.
When the Zapatista guerrillas began an armed uprising six weeks later, Mr. Jones said, he urged Carlos Salinas de Gortari, the President at that time, not to rely on force.
"There were a lot of people here who were suggesting that that was the answer," Mr. Jones said. "I tried to give them my best judgment of what investors would do if they abused human rights and relied on the old authoritarian methods of cracking down."
Then two years ago, Mexico found itself in an economic crisis, forced to devalue the peso. The United States led a largely successful $20 billion rescue effort, which he helped assemble. All of these events have been punctuated by a series of political assassinations, kidnappings and upheaval for the governing party.
Last month the Finance Ministry announced that Mexico's economy surged by 7.4 percent in the third quarter, another sign of the country's economic recovery, which Mr. Jones predicted repeatedly when many financial analysts were warning foreign investors to stay away.
But despite the encouraging economic signals, he said, the skewed distribution of wealth means that too few Mexicans are benefiting.
"I would say maybe 40 percent or 50 percent of the population is benefiting from the new freedoms," he said. "The other half -- or more -- are not." He noted that President Ernesto Zedillo contends that with 14 million of Mexico's 92 million people illiterate, merely building a modern factory would not solve the problem.
But Mr. Jones recommended that the United States Government and corporations work with their Mexican counterparts to improve education and health systems and to build the country's infrastructure.
"I don't believe in artificially distributing wealth, but this is a little bit like the Depression era in the United States," he said. "Opportunities have got to become real for these people."
"Otherwise," he added, "these people are going to lose faith in free markets and democratic freedoms." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: NYSE AMEX LLC (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (70%); TRENDS (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); APPROVALS (60%); WAR & CONFLICT (60%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM; JONES, JAMES R (AMB) JAMES L JONES (79%); BILL CLINTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



69 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: The Teamsters' Fateful Choice

 BODY:
When Ron Carey was elected president of the teamsters' union five years ago, he pledged to end 40 years of corruption that had seen four of the union's recent presidents jailed or indicted. He promised no more organized crime, no more concessionary contracts and no more local bosses who fatten their bank accounts at members' expense.
By most accounts, he is succeeding. But rather than winning the universal acclaim of his members, Mr. Carey faces a stiff re-election challenge from James P. Hoffa, the energetic and charismatic son of the corrupt teamsters' boss Jimmy Hoffa, who disappeared in 1975. If Mr. Carey's bid for re-election fails, labor will sacrifice one of its most promising leaders -- a loss the often sluggish labor movement can ill afford. 
 Mr. Carey won election when the union, under a settlement with the Justice Department of an anti-racketeering suit, conducted its first secret ballot. He faced huge obstacles. The union's national leadership was dominated by his opponents. His anti-corruption campaign singed local leaders. Union finances were shot, in part because the old guard had boosted strike benefits without raising dues.
At the same time, he found himself confronting a host of unpleasant economic realities. After deregulation, non-union companies entered the trucking industry, which applied powerful downward pressure on wages. Also, part of the industry became increasingly dominated by national companies. The teamsters were organized around local units, none of which were equipped to face down the newly energized national outfits.
Mr. Carey's response was swift. Under the steady watch of a government-imposed review board, he replaced officials suspected of corruption at more than 60 locals, including two dozen in New York and New Jersey, with independent trustees. He restructured the union to recapture power at the national office -- a necessary maneuver, according to Michael Belzer of Cornell University, to break organized crime's control and put the teamsters in a strong bargaining position with national truckers. But stripping local leaders, even honest ones, of some of their power bred intense opposition.
Mr. Hoffa swears he has no link to organized crime. That may well be true. But he would be more believable had he not surrounded himself with suspect figures -- one of whom was kicked out of the union by government officials for corrupt behavior -- and had he not, in the face of Jimmy Hoffa's convictions for jury tampering and fraud, steadfastly maintained his father's innocence. Indeed James Hoffa has turned the corruption charge on his opponent, though government authorities have substantiated no allegations against Mr. Carey.
Mr. Carey has won high marks for cleaning up the union. He has professionalized its research department and organizing efforts. He has lent important support to progressive change in the union movement, such as John Sweeney's recent election as president of the A.F.L-C.I.O.
Mr. Carey has yet to prove he can turn the teamsters' economic fortunes around by organizing new members and negotiating rich contracts. But Mr. Hoffa gives no indication that he has a sound strategy for fighting the powerful forces that have reduced union membership across the country to about 10 percent of the private-sector labor force. Mr. Hoffa might be able to provide leadership for the teamsters, but Mr. Carey already seems to be doing so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ENDORSEMENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CORRUPTION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); DEREGULATION (74%); TRUCKING (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); JURY TRIALS (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); VERDICTS (60%); 

PERSON: CAREY, RON MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



70 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Call For Rights In Cuba Lets U.S. Off Hook

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
The European Union's vote on Monday urging Cuba to improve its policies on human rights and political freedoms has cleared the way for President Clinton to waive once again the most controversial part of a new law intended to punish foreign companies that use confiscated American property in Cuba, Administration officials said today.
Mr. Clinton has yet to decide whether to suspend the law's toughest penalties, as he did in July when he signed the measure, but White House officials said the European Union's resolution was exactly what the President had sought to promote democracy in Cuba and would be a factor in his decision, expected next month. 
 The new law, known as the Helms-Burton Act after its Republican sponsors, Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Representative Dan Burton of Indiana, has angered Europe, Canada and Mexico.
Stuart E. Eizenstat, the Commerce Department's Undersecretary for International Trade whom Mr. Clinton appointed as special envoy to placate America's allies, called the European vote a landmark that underscored an international consensus on the need to isolate Cuba and its President, Fidel Castro.
"We believe it's a major advance in developing what the President had hoped would be a growing awareness by nations of the need to press Cuba" on matters of human rights, said Mr. Eizenstat, who has traveled four times to Europe since his appointment and who is to submit recommendations on the new law to Mr. Clinton next month.
The President's spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, said today that when he signed the law, Mr. Clinton hoped to rally diplomatic support for "furthering the objectives of the legislation itself" by isolating Cuba. "So it is certainly a factor to be considered," he said of the European Union's vote. "But I don't want to say that it settles the matter."
The European Union's resolution warned that its cooperation with Cuba in business and trade matters depended on "improvements in human rights and political freedom." It also called for the release of political prisoners and reforms in Cuba's criminal codes and said the union's members would increase support for opposition groups.
In voting unanimously for the resolution, however, the European Union did not ease its opposition to the Helms-Burton law. In fact, it has adopted retaliatory legislation that would allow European companies punished under the law to sue in European courts to recover damages. Canada has passed a similar legislation.
In part because of the anger from some of the United States' strongest allies, Mr. Clinton suspended the provision of the law that would allow Americans to sue foreign companies that use factories or other property confiscated from Americans after the revolution that brought the Communists to power in 1959.
The law also requires the State Department to deny visas to executives of such companies and their families and calls on the President to take other steps to promote the downfall of Mr. Castro's Government. The law also grants the President the authority to suspend the provision allowing lawsuits every six months if there is progress toward democracy in Cuba or it is in the national interest to do so.
Administration officials said the European Union had not asked, nor did the United States promise, that its vote would persuade Mr. Clinton to suspend part of the law again.
One official said the President would have to consider domestic concerns as much as foreign policy, since the new law is popular with Republicans in Congress and with Cuban-Americans. But the official added that the vote would give Mr. Clinton something concrete to point to when he announces a decision.
"If they show sufficient signs on the democratization effort," the official said of the allies, "we won't have to go whole hog on Helms-Burton."
While the Clinton Administration has welcomed the European Union's vote, officials were careful not to appear to claim credit for it for fear of further antagonizing its allies. The European Union also sought to play down any connection between the vote and the furor over the law.
The resolution was sponsored by Spain, whose relations with Cuba have soured in recent months under the Government of Prime Minister Jose Maria Anzar, even though Spain remains the largest foreign investor in Cuba.
A European diplomat in Washington said the resolution did not reflect a change in Europe's relationship with Cuba as much as a declaration of its support for democracy and human rights. The diplomat added, however, "If the United States is happy about that and it can settle this problem we've had for the last few months, then fine." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; EUROPE; CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); DAMAGES (70%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE BILL CLINTON (92%); DAN BURTON (58%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



71 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: The Moon May Have Water, And Many New Possibilities

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD 

 BODY:
Scientists think they have detected water on the Moon, and suddenly visions of people living in lunar colonies and stopping off there to refuel on the way to Mars seem a little less farfetched.
After two years of careful analysis, scientists said yesterday that radar signals from an American spacecraft indicated the Moon was not as bone-dry as is usually thought. The peculiar radar signatures suggested the presence of water ice in the permanently cold shadows of a deep basin near the lunar south pole. 
 The ice deposit is not at all like a frozen lake where astronauts might try skating in one-sixth gravity. Instead, the scientists said, the survey seemed to reveal a vast landscape of some 3,000 square miles in which ice crystals are mixed with dirt, a kind of permafrost that is presumably the residue of moisture from comets striking the Moon over the last three billion years.
"We think we have found ice," said Dr. Paul D. Spudis, a geologist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston. "We are not positive. But we see signals consistent with ice, and we think it's there."
But Dr. Spudis and other scientists reporting the findings by Clementine, a small Defense Department spacecraft, acknowledged that the discovery needed to be confirmed by an independent investigation. That could come a year from now when another spacecraft, Lunar Prospector, is to orbit the Moon with instruments with even greater precision for determining the presence of lunar water.
A detailed report on the findings has been published in the current issue of the journal Science. The principal scientists, Dr. Spudis and Dr. Stewart Nozette of the Air Force Phillips Laboratory in Alexandria, Va., described the results at a news conference yesterday at the Pentagon.
Other scientists reacted to the report with a mixture of caution and enthusiasm. They wanted to believe, because of the important implications for future exploration and colonization of the Moon. But they noted that the radar results were particularly difficult to interpret.
"I'd be delighted if it's true," said Dr. Bruce C. Murray, a planetary scientist at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, who in 1961 predicted that water ice would be found in polar shadows. "But we need to look very carefully at the interpretation and wait for confirmation."
In the journal article, the discovery team was also extremely cautious. "There are several possible explanations for these observations," the scientists wrote, "including the possibility" that the signals do not result from ice deposits.
But no one was ignoring the implications, if the ice proves to be real.
In a statement issued by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Dr. Wesley T. Huntress Jr., the agency's associate administrator for science, said the likely existence of water ice on the Moon "could be a key ingredient in the support of future human lunar exploration, due to its potential value as a source of the components of rocket fuel."
The discovery has "changed a desert to an oasis," said John E. Pike, a space policy analyst at the Federation of American Scientists in Washington. "The Moon used to be dry; now it's wet. Now it could become a gas station."
Ever since Dr. Murray's prediction in 1961, the possibility of ice on the Moon has inspired speculation about using the resource for people living in permanent outposts and as rocket fuel for interplanetary travel. Using solar or nuclear power, the water ice could be converted into its components, hydrogen and oxygen, which are valuable rocket fuels.
But Dr. John M. Logsdon, director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University, said it was still not clear how practical a resource the polar ice would be. He questioned the economic feasibility of using the water for colonies or rocket fuel in the foreseeable future.
As the Clementine spacecraft discovered, the dominant topographic feature in the south polar region of the Moon is a huge depression called the South Pole-Aitken basin. Gouged out by a massive asteroid nearly four billion years ago, the basin stretches 1,500 miles and in places is as deep as eight miles, deeper than Mount Everest is high.
It is in the shadow of these deep walls that the cometary ice has apparently accumulated as a mixture of dirt and rock. Temperatures in the shadows are estimated to be as low as minus 387 degrees Fahrenheit. Any ice in parts of the basin exposed to sunlight would have evaporated and escaped into space. As it is, Dr. Spudis said, the ice in shadows is not a solid sheet like that found at a skating rink, but instead constitutes probably no more than 10 percent of the material in the region, which is mostly dirt.
The ice's being near the south pole is another reason some scientists gave for expressing reservations about its utility any time soon.
In the book "Mining the Sky," published last month by Addison Wesley, Dr. John S. Lewis, a geologist at the Space Engineering Research Center of the University of Arizona, wrote that in many respects "the lunar poles are not an attractive site for the lunar base." They are harder to reach by spacecraft from Earth and require more rocket energy. And it would be a difficult engineering feat to transport the ice to a base closer to the equator.
Dr. Spudis noted that there was a high point in the basin, near the actual pole, that is almost permanently in sunlight. This would be an excellent site, he said, for a lunar installation with solar power panels to run equipment to melt the ice for water or convert it to breathing oxygen or rocket fuel.
But he conceded: "We have a long way to go before we have people living on the Moon. What this is, is an indication that living on the Moon might be possible."
From an astronaut on the space shuttle Columbia came an even more optimistic response. Told of the new findings by Mission Control, Dr. Story Musgrave said, "Clearly if there is ice and there is water out there, that is a natural resource which is extraordinarily important to establishing a permanent thing such as an observatory on the Moon, or some kind of colony."
Dr. Nozette said the scientists were almost certain the radar was detecting water ice, though there could be small amounts of other substances like methane or carbon dioxide mixed in. Some 90 percent of a comet is composed of ice and most of that is water ice.
About one-third of the south polar region appeared to be in permanent shadow, the Clementine scientists said, but very little of the north pole is in shadow.
The $80 million Clementine spacecraft was developed and launched by the Defense Department's Ballistic Missile Defense Organization to test sensing instruments for anti-missile defenses. Since the craft would be heading near the Moon, where some of the tests could be made, scientists got permission to put Clementine into a lunar orbit and remap in greater detail much of the surface.
Clementine was launched in January 1994 and operated in lunar orbit for four months. It was the first American craft to explore the Moon since the final Apollo landing in December 1972 and the last visit by any craft since the unmanned Russian Luna 24 landed there in 1976, picked up rock samples and returned them to Earth.
The next mission to the Moon is Lunar Prospector, a small, unmanned craft being developed for NASA by the Ames Research Center in Mountain View, Calif., and built by Lockheed-Martin Corporation in Denver. Scheduled for launching next September, the spacecraft is to go into an orbit of the Moon that repeatedly crosses both poles. Its five remote-sensing instruments are designed to map the composition of the lunar surface and observe its magnetic and gravity fields.
Dr. Huntress of NASA said that Lunar Prospector's two neutron spectrometers should be able to measure the amount of hydrogen on the lunar surface to an accuracy of 50 parts per million. "This will permit scientists to infer the presence or absence of ice with greater precision than possible via the innovative but indirect method used by the Clementine team," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Radar signals from an American spacecraft suggest that ice crystals may lie in a 3,000-square-mile area around the Moon's south pole. (Nasa/Defense Department)(pg. A1); Dr. Paul D. Spudis, left, answered questions yesterday at the Pentagon about a finding that water might be on the Moon, as Maj. Christine Queen carried a model of the spacecraft that provided data that led to the finding. (Amy Toensing for The New York Times)(pg. B10)
 
Diagram: "MISSION: A Radar Snapshot of Possible Ice"
The Clementine spacecraft used its main antenna to beam radar signals into black areas of the south polar region of the Moon. The signals bounced back toward receivers on Earth, where differences in the reflections suggested which areas may be icy or rocky. (Source: Department of Defense/NASA)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARS (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MARS (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; MOON; WATER; COMETS; CLEMENTINE (SPACECRAFT); RADAR SPACECRAFT (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RADAR SYSTEMS (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (79%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (79%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); AIR FORCES (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



72 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: New 'Furniture' and, Finally, Toilets Planned for City Streets

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Many of the structures moored to New York City's sidewalks bear the wounds of an urban habitat, from the array of jerry-built newsstands slathered with grime to bus shelters that look as if they have been set upon by marauders. And the one streetside amenity that many residents crave, a clean public toilet, is usually nowhere to be seen.
Yesterday, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and leaders of the City Council announced an agreement on a broad plan to refurbish this part of the city's vista, attempting to impose order on what is commonly known as street furniture. 
 Under the plan, the city would contract with a private company to rebuild all 331 newsstands and 3,300 bus shelters in the city, as well as set up more than 30 pay toilets. The company would create new designs for these structures along a similar theme, doing away with the current mishmash of styles. One variety might be modeled on the pillar-shaped kiosks that are popular in Paris.
The Mayor's plan comes after years of unsuccessful attempts by municipal officials to install public toilets in New York City.
Seeking to reduce clutter, the city will ask the private company to also incorporate other elements into the structures, like computer information terminals, public telephones and trash or recycling bins.
The company would be required to perform regular maintenance on the newsstands, bus shelters and public toilets. It would pay for construction and make a profit by selling advertising space on them.
"For too long, we have lost sight of the importance of the landscape of New York," said Fran Reiter, the Deputy Mayor for Economic Development. "The physical city has been neglected, and this is a great step toward recognizing that, and recognizing that we can do much better."
Mr. Giuliani's aides and Council leaders said that they were also near a deal on a separate proposal that would increase the number of newsstands in the city from 331 to at least 430, and that they might allow them to be built for the first time on one of the city's most prominent promenades, Fifth Avenue.
The city would essentially auction off the locations for the newsstands to the highest bidder. Operators of the existing 331 stands would be allowed to stay at their present sites for five years, but would be required to pay anywhere from $2,000 to $5,000 a year, compared with the $500 licensing fee they pay now. At the end of the five years, city officials would consider whether to open the sites to competitive bidding.
The company that wins the bidding for the newsstands, bus shelters and public toilets could potentially sell hundreds of millions of dollars in advertising over the life of the 20-year contract.
But the focus on using the sides of the newsstands as billboards has stirred opposition from some newsstand operators and the city's newspapers, which are concerned that the structures will be designed more to carry advertising then to sell papers.
"These can't be advertising kiosks that double as newsstands," said Robert S. Bookman, a lawyer for the New York City Newsstand Operators Association. "They have to be newsstands that double as advertising kiosks."
Mr. Bookman said that the Mayor's legislation, which was approved by a Council subcommittee yesterday and is expected to be approved by the entire Council by the end of the month, was acceptable, though he added that his group would closely monitor the designs submitted by the company that gains the contract.
The largest amount of space that would be devoted to advertising would be 55 square feet on bus shelters and 82.5 square feet on newsstands and public toilets. The city would also allow some bus shelters to be built about 10 to 15 feet longer than the current 25 feet, probably on routes where there are express buses. Those structures would take more advertising.
"We could end up having 50 to 60 of the longer shelters," said Councilman Walter L. McCaffrey, a Queens Democrat who is chairman of the Subcommittee on Zoning and Franchises. Current bus shelters have 42 square feet of advertising on two panels, officials said.
The city would prohibit tobacco advertising on the structures, and at the request of the Council, the Mayor also agreed to ban alcohol advertising within 250 feet of any school, day-care center or house of worship.
The final part of Mr. Giuliani's street furniture agenda is a bill that would sharply restrict newspaper vending boxes, prohibiting them from being chained to lampposts and signposts and moving them off corners. The City Council delayed consideration of that measure after newspapers lobbied against it.
George Freeman, an assistant general counsel of The New York Times Company, said that the city and its major newspapers had agreed on rules for vending boxes in the 1980's, adding that there was no reason for the issue to be reopened. "I can't see why it would be productive to either go through that series of negotations again or to come out with different results," Mr. Freeman said.
But Ms. Reiter said the Giuliani administration would press for the legislation early next year. "We continue to believe that is one of the most egregious things," she said of the vending boxes. "They block disabled access. They are out of control, they are magnets for graffiti, they are magnets for garbage." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 OTHER BUSINESS SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS FURNITURE INC (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSDEALERS AND NEWSSTANDS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; BUSES; TOILETS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ADVERTISING NEWSSTANDS (90%); CITIES (90%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AUCTIONS (75%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



73 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 4; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Financier Makes Gift to Russian Business School

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif., Dec. 3

 BODY:
George Soros, the Hungarian-born investor who amassed a fortune through currency speculation, has guaranteed $1 million to help create a new home for a fledgling American-style business school at the University of St. Petersburg in Russia.
Through his network of foundations, Mr. Soros has for years donated money for projects throughout Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union to assist institutions that foster democracy. The new pledge, from one of those foundations, the Open Society Institute, is for $750,000 in a direct grant and the guarantee of an additional $250,000 grant that is expected to be issued by the United States Information Agency. 
 The pledge will translate into $2 million for the St. Petersburg School of Management, because it satisfies the conditions of a $1 million challenge grant issued earlier by Arthur B. Schultz, a Norwegian-American businessman whose own foundation has financed several business-related projects in Russia.
The money will be used to renovate a pair of 18th-century mansions donated by the City of St. Petersburg to the rapidly growing management school, whose enrollment now totals about 300 students.
Though many business schools have cropped up throughout Russia since the collapse of communism, most function outside the university system and, unlike the St. Petersburg school, for the most part retrain managers formerly with state-owned enterprises.
The new financing was obtained by officials of the University of California at Berkeley, where professors at the Haas School of Business have been engaged in an exchange program with the St. Petersburg management school for some time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (90%); NORWAY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE; UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY; UNIVERSITY OF ST PETERSBURG UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (83%); OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (83%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (83%); OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE; UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY; UNIVERSITY OF ST PETERSBURG UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (83%); OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (83%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (83%); OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (90%); NORWAY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); MATCHING GIFTS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); CURRENCIES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%); 

PERSON: SOROS, GEORGE; SCHULTZ, ARTHUR B GEORGE SOROS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



74 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
A New Era at the California Capitol, Or the Same Old Gridlock Instead?

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 3

 BODY:
There was much optimistic talk of a new legislative era among Democrats in Sacramento on Monday as their party formally took back control of the California Assembly and, in a historic first move, elected to the Speakership one of their number, Cruz Bustamante of Fresno, the first Hispanic lawmaker to head the chamber.
At the same time, just across the hallway, the Democrats consolidated full control of the newly convened Legislature by re-electing another of their own, Bill Lockyer of Hayward, as Senate President pro tem. 
 Mr. Bustamante, whose ascendancy underscored rapidly growing Hispanic political power in the nation's most ethnically diverse state, immediately challenged his colleagues to "do good" and avoid the partisan gridlock that has tied up the Legislature in recent years. Similarly Mr. Lockyer, in his own call for an end to standoff, urged "personal responsibility" and "gracious instincts."
But for all the high-flown enthusiasm and noble-sounding appeals among the Democrats, who after two years of divided control in the Legislature once again have majorities in both houses here in the largest of all the states, the cold political fact is that the potential for gridlock at the Capitol remains great.
For one thing, the Republicans, with Pete Wilson still in command in the governor's office, will certainly not roll over and play dead, particularly given the contentious nature of the top issues in the new legislative session -- welfare, taxes and education, matters that will invite partisanship.
In addition, there is the huge problem of the legislative math with which California lawmakers must contend. Contrary to what is required of most state legislatures, in California the most important votes, like those on budget matters, need a two-thirds majority rather than a simple majority for passage. And, of course, a veto by the governor requires a two-thirds vote to override.
When all the votes were in on Nov. 5, Democrats controlled 43 Assembly seats and Republicans 37, basically a reversal of the edge the Republicans had held going into the election. Over in the Senate, Democrats held 23 of 40 seats, having picked off two more Republicans. With those narrow margins, Democrats can control the more mundane legislative proceedings in coming months. But on the big decisions they will need 54 votes, not 41, in the Assembly, and 27 votes, not 21, in the Senate.
Further, the California Legislature, probably more than any other because of the size and importance of the state, is under pressure by a huge force of well-heeled lobbyists, more than 600 at last count.
"There's ample opportunity out there for both sides to compromise and get things done," said Sherry Bibitch Jeffe, a former legislative aide who is now an analyst at the Claremont Center for Politics and Economics. "But now that they've had a day of warm fuzziness and all that, calling for compromise and progress, who can say if they'll keep going and grab the opportunity?
"One thing that could help move things along is that the biggest players -- Bustamante, Lockyer and Wilson -- are all living with the realization that they're going to be gone from office and out of power in two more years because of term limits."
Like the Democratic legislative leaders, the Republican leaders called on Monday for an end to partisan gridlock.
But even as Assemblyman Curt Pringle, the Republican whom Mr. Bustamante succeeded as Speaker, issued his call, he also complained that Mr. Bustamante, with several early partisan procedural moves on the floor that day, was threatening to create an "imperial Speakership."
Governor Wilson, a skilled practitioner of partisan politics when it is his wont, also joined in urging an end to legislative inaction.
"We have a great opportunity to move substantively on education and welfare reform if we will just work together," he said. "But if we fall into the old partisan bickering, we'll pay a steep price down the road."
Mr. Bustamante, a 43-year-old grandson of Mexican immigrants, grew up in a poor Central Valley farming area and is one of 14 Hispanic members of the Assembly, the most ever. He is generally regarded as a political moderate and, in a legislative body that is frequently loud and raucous, as a voice of reason and calm, an important attribute for a successful Speaker.
He had been laying the groundwork for his rise to the Speakership for some time, counting not just on the votes of fellow Hispanic lawmakers but also on the backing of other Assembly members with whom he had worked closely over the years.
Given California's ethnic diversity, his supporters were aware, of course, of the symbolism and historic importance of the elevation of a son of a poor immigrant family to the second most powerful job in California government. But ultimately he won that job the way all successful Speakers win votes: by building alliances, trust, respect and a big pile of chits to call in when the time came.
"It's a bit overwhelming," he said modestly as he took up the Speaker's gavel for the first time.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cruz Bustamante shortly before the convening of the California Assembly session on Monday. Soon afterward Mr. Bustamante was elected Speaker, the first Hispanic lawmaker who has ever held the post. (Jose Luis Villegas/The Sacramento Bee) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); FRESNO, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); FRESNO, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; HISPANIC-AMERICANS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); VETO (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; BUSTAMANTE, CRUZ (SPEAKER); LOCKYER, BILL (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



75 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
The Mall Pall

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
The figures are in. Peter Jennings reported the good news on Monday night. Shoppers spent 12 percent more at malls on Thanksgiving weekend this year than they did in '95. Given the primacy of malls in American life, you'd think there would be more celebration of their ongoing 40th anniversary. It was in 1956 that the first enclosed shopping center, Southdale, opened in Edina, a suburb of Minneapolis.
But the biggest mall event of 1996 was not this happy birthday. It was instead a rude development that occurred in September at the most mega of American malls, also outside Minneapolis. The Mall of America -- 4.2 million square feet of retailing -- joined less fabled peers in declaring a curfew for teen-agers on weekend nights, in an effort to curb juvenile violence. 
 It was also this fall that a bank robbery and fatal shootout at Tysons Corner Center in suburban Washington prompted a Washington Post reporter, Doug Struck, to investigate crime at other area malls. When he inquired about the level of criminal activity at the Annapolis Mall, he was told "zero" -- only to discover that police records showed scores of crimes there in the past two years, many of them violent. Though mall crime is sometimes too glaring to escape the local 11 o'clock news -- remember the outbreak of shooting and stabbing at Long Island's Green Acres Mall two years ago? -- there is, amazingly, no national collection of mall crime statistics.
What does it say that a country so obsessed with "inner-city" pathologies spends so little time examining its outer cities, the malls? Chalk it up to the great American religion: escapism. In a nation where the middle class more often gravitates to malls than to urban centers, we'd rather worry about other people's problems than our own.
In his classic 1985 history of suburbia, "Crabgrass Frontier," the historian Kenneth T. Jackson aptly summed up the mall ideal we still want to believe in -- a refuge containing "no unsavory bars or pornography shops, no threatening-looking characters, no litter, no rain, and no excessive heat or cold." Malls, which first appeared the year after Disneyland opened, were designed to be brightly lit, poverty-free theme-park versions of the darker, less savory old downtowns they would soon usurp (and helped destroy).
But not everyone runs a theme park as well as Disney. I've found that walking across the parking lot of a mall deserted by everyone except restless teen-agers after a late movie is an anxious-making experience, whether in the New York suburbs or western Pennsylvania, utterly indistinguishable from that of searching for a cab on a lonely city street at the same hour.
That we thought malls were Nirvanas, to be hermetically sealed off indefinitely from society's rough edges, is an old American fairy tale. Eternally innocent (and charmingly hopeful), we are always shocked when model cities defy their planners, when suburbs are not immune to urban woes, and, most recently, when the new virtual neighborhoods of cyberspace are invaded by the same criminals, pornographers and hucksters that turn up on real streets.
Malls, though, have had less serious scrutiny than any other highly populated environment -- in part because their owners invoke legal precedents that have found malls to be private enclaves, not the undesignated townships they've become. But Thurgood Marshall had it right when in a 1976 Supreme Court dissent he deemed malls a new form of public square. Malls have their own culture -- from censored versions of movies at Blockbuster to the prevailing diet of the ever-expanding food court -- as well as their own private police forces, variant life styles (see Kevin Smith's movie "Mallrats") and shifting architectural fashions. (The bustling, Disneyfied "downtown" look is the new trend at suburban malls even as urban malls like those on Chicago's Michigan Avenue look more suburban than ever.)
For the next month, we'll hear over and over how much money we're spending at malls, our credit-card slips serving as an annual thermometer of our economy. What's happening at malls the other 11 months of the year is a vast untold story that may have much more to say about the health of our civic life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SUBURBS (89%); CITY LIFE (87%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); HISTORY (76%); SHOOTINGS (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CITIES (69%); ROBBERY (68%); BANK ROBBERY (68%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK FRANK RICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



76 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Fixing the Scales for Measuring Inflation: In Politics, It's Not an Easy Thing

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
Say the owners of a grocery store discovered that the scales they used to weigh produce were out of whack and that their profits were down because they were undercharging for fruits and vegetables. The first thing the grocers would do would be to fix their scales.
By the same token, when the Government discovers that it has been measuring the rate of inflation wrong at a cost of billions of dollars a year in extra benefit payments and lost tax revenue, one might expect officials to change their calculations. 
 But this is politics, not apples and bananas. If a change is made in the way the annual cost-of-living adjustments are figured for retirement benefits and taxes, as a Congressional advisory commission is recommending, it will come slowly and only after a fierce political struggle.
The White House suggested today that President Clinton would not take a stand any time soon on whether such a change should be made. Republicans in Congress said they were not about to agree to a change in cost-of-living adjustments unless the President proposed one first.
Both sides have learned the lesson that fiscal responsibility can turn into a political disaster.
The budget that Mr. Clinton pushed through Congress in 1993 without any Republican votes was in part responsible for the fact that the Federal deficit fell from $255 billion in the fiscal year 1993 to $106 billion in the year that ended last Sept. 30. This was accomplished at almost no cost to most taxpayers, since most of the tax increase fell on the wealthy.
But Republicans portrayed the President as having sculpted the biggest tax increase in history. This line of attack helped them to win control of Congress in the 1994 elections.
Then last year, the Republican Congress approved a budget that limited spending on Medicare. The Republican plan was only slightly more austere than the one proposed by the President himself. But the charge that Republicans wanted to gut Medicare was a big part of Mr. Clinton's re-election artillery.
The truth of the matter is that even a 1 percentage point reduction in cost-of-living adjustments would save the Government about $500 billion over the next decade and make balancing the budget significantly less daunting. Individuals and families would feel the change, but it would hardly be enough to alter their standards of living.
The average Social Security payment starting in January will be $745 a month. A 1.1 percentage point cut would mean a reduction in the average retirement benefits of $8 a month, or $96 a year.
As for taxes, a family of four that has taxable income of $50,000 a year and takes the standard deduction would have a tax increase of slightly less than $100 a year -- the consequence of more income being taxed at 28 percent instead of 15 percent, a lower standard deduction and smaller personal exemptions. Very wealthy taxpayers would hardly be affected at all, since they are already in the top tax bracket, itemize their deductions and are not entitled to personal exemptions.
But the rather modest effect such a change would have on retirees and working taxpayers hardly diminishes the political challenge.
When the matter came up last Sunday on the NBC interview program "Meet the Press," Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee, and Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the deputy Republican leader, agreed that the Government should change to a more accurate measurement of inflation. "You're not trying to take anything away from people, just to get the right number," Mr. Moynihan said.
But as a practical matter, Mr. Nickles said, Congress will not budge until Mr. Clinton takes the first step. Otherwise, the Republicans run the risk of having to take primary responsibility for cutting Social Security and raising taxes.
In theory, the President could make the change unilaterally. After all, inflation adjustments are made on the basis of the Consumer Price Index. The index is compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The bureau is in the executive branch, a part of the Department of Labor. Mr. Clinton could simply order a change in the way the index is calculated.
But he almost certainly will not do that. Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics are widely regarded as sacrosanct -- above politics, like, say, Census Bureau data.
The last President who tried to tamper with the agency's operations was Richard M. Nixon. He decided that the monthly unemployment figures were damaging him politically. So he ordered officials at the Bureau of Labor Statistics to stop having news conferences to announce the data, and there have been no such news conference since then.
But the same information has continued to come out because the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, then controlled by Democrats and now run by Republicans, began routinely calling the director of the bureau to testify publicly on the day the unemployment figures are announced.
The episode resulted in considerable political embarrassment to Mr. Nixon.
If the method of calculating the inflation adjustment is changed, it will most likely happen as part of the budget negotiations between Mr. Clinton and Congress. That way, the two sides can move simultaneously, and neither can be accused of taking the first step.
But don't bank on it happening. Most Republicans in Congress have pledged not to raise taxes. Democrats have been elected for years on the basis of their fealty to Social Security.
In politics, that counts for more than the logic of using accurate scales. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COST OF LIVING; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); POLITICS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INCOME TAX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); FAMILY (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



77 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: PANEL SAYS ERRORS IN INFLATION DATA DRAIN U.S. BUDGET

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
An independent commission appointed by Congress will report on Wednesday that the Government is overstating the inflation rate by 1.1 percentage points, costing it billions of dollars in inflated Social Security and other benefits payments. The commission will call on Congress and the Clinton Administration to solve the problem.
The report, on the Consumer Price Index, will stop short of advocating a specific plan for dealing with the predictable political opposition to any step that would rein in benefits like Social Security. But it will specifically recommend that Congress and the Administration take a variety of technical steps to revise the index, which is used to calculate cost of living increases for many union contracts as well for Government programs like Social Security. 
 Ultimately, the report suggests, legislation to revise the index might be the best approach, but both parties so far have been reluctant to take the lead on the issue. [News analysis, page B12.]
The Consumer Price Index is compiled by the Labor Department Bureau of Labor Statistics. It measures inflation by tracking the prices of a "market basket" of products meant to reflect typical consumer purchases. It has played a major role in shaping the impression that the economy's performance has deteriorated in the past several decades, and, as the most widely used gauge of rises in the cost of living, it has become the basis for many decisions by Government and businesses.
Although many of the problems with the index are arcane, any changes to it would ripple across the economy and through the personal finances of nearly everyone.
For instance, Social Security payments for next year are being calculated on the basis of a 2.9 percent increase in the cost of living. If that increase was 1.1 percentage points lower, the average monthly payment, now $724, would go to $737 rather than to $745 -- a difference of $8 a month, or $96 a year. The effect would build on itself because a lower payment next year would mean a lower starting point when the benefit was adjusted for inflation the following year. In 15 years, the difference would amount to several thousands of dollars a year per recipient.
By the same token, the change would have a huge effect on efforts to balance the budget. According to an estimate by the Congressional Budget Office, done before the commission's recommendations, even a reduction of one percentage point in the cost of living increase would save the Government $34 billion in payments for Social Security and other retirement and benefit programs in 2002, the year by which both parties have pledged to eliminate the deficit.
Recalculating the index could raise taxes for many people by reducing the annual inflation-driven increases in the standard deduction, personal exemptions and the income levels at which higher tax rates kick in. By 2002, a drop of one percentage point in the index would yield an additional $21.4 billion in tax revenues, the budget office calculates.
Together, the reductions in spending and the higher tax revenues could make up more than a third of the $150 billion annual deficit that the nation is projected to face in 2002.
A change in the price index would also affect union contracts that have wage increases directly tied to the price index, but there are fewer of those than in the past. It is unclear how any changes in the index would affect contracts more loosely based on the cost of living.
The recommendations by the five-member panel, led by Michael J. Boskin, a Stanford University economist and a former head of the White House Council of Economic Advisers under President George Bush, range from highly technical suggestions for fixing the monthly Consumer Price Index's statistical shortcomings to a call for a new annual index that could reflect cost of living increases more accurately.
Although both Democrats and Republicans have expressed vague support for revising the index, both parties are also fearful of being tagged by the other as willing to pursue fiscal austerity at the expense of the elderly, a fast-growing and increasingly politically powerful group.
As a result, there is little likelihood that the commission's findings will be embraced publicly by either side, at least immediately, although officials at both the White House and in Congress have said they might be willing to discuss the matter as part of a balanced budget agreement.
Senior Administration officials said privately that while they remained wary of the political pitfalls associated with the issue, they wanted to send a message to Republicans that they were open to further study and negotiation and to changing the index if a broad technical and political consensus could be reached.
In its public statements, however, the White House was restrained.
"The Administration considers the Boskin Commission and some experimental work the Bureau of Labor Statistics is doing as the beginning of the process, not the end of it," said Larry Haas, a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget at the White House. "The President will direct his economic team to study these findings, and we will seek input from other experts before deciding how to react."
Senator William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware, a Republican who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, which set up the commission, said he was looking to the White House to "provide leadership" on the issue. "My party is willing to work in a bipartisan manner on this issue," he said. "It can't be done without the President's support."
Horace B. Deets, the executive director of the American Association of Retired Persons, one of Washington's most powerful lobbying groups, said he was concerned that the issue not become driven by the desire of Congress and the Administration to find easy budget savings.
"We don't want to be spending more in benefits or taking in less than we should be in taxes," he said, "but I'm leery of changing the system until we see what the proposed change is."
As a practical matter, Congress and the Administration could change the current system in one of three ways. They could direct the Bureau of Labor Statistics to change the price index to reflect the report's concerns. They could pass legislation to create an alternative cost of living index to be used in setting benefit levels. Or they could pass legislation directing that benefit levels be set by subtracting the amount of the mismeasurement from the price index.
Because the Bureau of Labor Statistics has made clear that it believes the Boskin Commission is overstating the scale of the problem, it appears unlikely to go along easily with a wholesale revision, and it is unclear whether either Congress or the Administration is willing to put direct pressure on the agency, which jealously guards its independence.
Next year, the Labor Department will begin publishing an experimental price index that will attempt to account for one of the biggest problems, the tendency of consumers to reduce purchases of items that rise quickly in price and to substitute another product.
Mr. Boskin has long argued that the nation needs more accurate economic statistics, and he fought for additional financing for economic measurement programs while at the White House. He, like other economists and policy makers, including Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has argued that the economy's shift from the production of goods that are easy to measure, like cars and steel, to more abstract products, like software, has left the nation flying by faulty instrument readings.
The commission is expected to make a dozen specific recommendations, most highly technical, to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. They are intended to address what the commission viewed as three major problems with the index that result in a mismeasurement of inflation of between 0.8 percentage points and 1.6 percentage points, with about 1.1 percentage points as the best estimate.
Of the 1.1 percentage points, failure to account for quality improvements and new products caused inflation to be overstated by 0.6 percentage points, people who have seen the report said.
The index's inability to account fully for decisions by consumers to substitute cheaper products for more expensive products when prices are rising accounts for 0.4 percentage points of error. The final tenth of a point of the error stems from the index's failure to pick up changes in where people shop.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "BY THE NUMBERS: Shrinking the Federal Budget" shows the amount by which the Federal budget deficit would be reduced each fiscal year if the cost of living adjustment were 1 percentage point lower than currenly projected from 1997 to 2002. (Source: Congressional Budget Office)(pg. B12); "For Social Security, Potential Erosion" shows the actual average monthly Social Security benefit paid to those retired by Dec. 31, 1984 and the benefit if the Consumer Price index had been 1.1 percentage points lower each year, from 1985 to 1997. (Source: Social Security Administration)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); FORECASTS; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX INFLATION (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); TAX INCREASES (62%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



78 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: The Dow Falls 79.01 Points In Late Selloff

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
With concern rising that rallies in the dollar and bonds might be stalling, stocks quavered and then tumbled late yesterday as the General Motors Corporation reported poor auto sales for November.
The Dow Jones industrial average was already down 37 points at 3:46 P.M., when G.M. said that its car sales slid 22.5 percent in November. The Dow then fell another 42 points in the next 14 minutes, as most large stocks dropped sharply in price. The Dow closed down 79.01 points at 6,442.69. 
 G.M.'s numbers were not so surprising, some analysts said, noting that results had been hurt by a strike in Canada. [Page D4.]
But the headlines seemed to set off concern among some portfolio managers, who are sitting on large gains this year. There was an immediate dumping of stock index futures, which soon spilled over into the market for large stocks.
"People are not confident the economy is strengthening and will continue to grow in 1997," Hugh Johnson, a market strategist at First Albany, said.
As is often the case when opinions suddenly shift, the first indication of the problem came in futures contracts for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. By the session's end, the contract for December, which expires in less than three weeks, was off 12.50 points, or 1.6 percent, to 745.50. It had been at 754 just before G.M.'s report.
That selloff was only partly reflected in the stocks in the index, which ended the day down 8.28 points, to 748.28. If the futures prices were an accurate barometer of market sentiment, that could indicate stock prices will fall further today.
Stock index futures trade for most of the night, and prices were trying to stabilize last night. At 6:30 P.M., the December contract was up 0.40 point, to 745.90. But by late Tuesday, it had fallen 0.4 point, to 745.50.
Smaller stocks did better early in the day and, when the selloff came, fell less. The Nasdaq composite index ended the day at 1,300.37, up 0.55 point, setting a closing high for the seventh consecutive session.
But the Nasdaq index had been as high as 1,313.38 earlier, and was at more than 1,306 when G.M. issued its news. Some large Nasdaq companies fell sharply in late trading. Intel, trading at more than 129 a share earlier, ended off 1 1/4, to 125 7/8. Microsoft, at more than 159 earlier, fell 31/16 , to 15411/16 .
Bond prices came under some pressure yesterday as new corporate bonds came to market. But the 30-year Treasury bond ended the day unchanged at 6.36 percent.
The dollar, which surged on Monday, showed strength yesterday, then fell back. It settled at 113.29 Japanese yen after trading as high as 114.65 yen. Against the German mark, the dollar rose slightly, to 1.5568 marks from 1.5536 marks. But it had been higher earlier in the day.
Since a brief July slide in stock prices, large stocks had been doing much better than smaller ones. Some portfolio managers had said they were seeking liquidity, meaning stocks they could sell quickly. Late yesterday, some of them did, and found that liquidity could be costly.
General Electric fell 4 a share, to 99 1/4, with most of that loss coming in the final hour; Procter & Gamble dropped 3 7/8, to 104 3/4. G.M., despite alarming fund managers, ended up 1/2, to 58 3/8. But it had been at 59 when its sales numbers were released.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); CME GROUP INC (56%); INTEL CORP (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (55%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); FUTURES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



79 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Screws Tightened on Serbian Opposition

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, Dec. 3

 BODY:
The Serbian President and opposition groups that have marched against his Government by the tens of thousands in the last two weeks edged closer tonight to deploying the last weapons in their arsenals.
Each day as many as 100,000 demonstrators were out in the capitalprotesting the Government's nullification of local elections won by opposition parties. While they are calling for President Slobodan Milosevic to resign, he seems to be setting the stage for a major crackdown. 
 In his most drastic steps yet, the President today shut down B-92, the country's last independent news station; jammed a small student radio station in the capital; blocked busloads of protesters headed for the center of the city, and arrested 32 student activists for "brutal attacks on people's property." He appeared on state television to denounce the tens of thousands of protesters as "rampaging hordes" who cause "severe material damage to people's property."
The opposition leaders, now facing an information blockade on their protests and under threat of having marches stopped by force, have reluctantly called for nationwide strikes. If the maneuver fails, it will probably doom the opposition's current campaign to restore the original election results, and leaders fear that the protests could sputter out in the wintry weather and mounting frustration.
Opposition leaders delivering speeches in Terazije Square appealed to the police and the army to participate in the rallies and pleaded with Serbs from around the country to come out in force to back the movement. So far the protests have not managed to gain the open support of many of the country's workers, with the exception of a few thousand in the industrial city of Nis.
"We have to act quickly," said Miodrag Perisic, an opposition leader. "We have to get our message into the factories, to pull professional and labor groups behind us."
The acceleration of the crisis coincided with the toughest statement to date from the State Department in Washington.
Washington has made clear to the Serbian authorities that "the United States would be outraged if any attempt was made to use force against the demonstrators," Nicholas Burns, the State Department spokesman, said, raising the possibility of renewed economic sanctions against Serbia.
But American diplomats here said that they had not delivered any specific threats to Mr. Milosevic and described the statement as a way of "keeping our options open." The Clinton Administration, which relied on Mr. Milosevic's help in bringing about the Dayton peace agreement in 1995, is seen by many Serbs as a supporter of the current Government.
Opposition leaders, however, remained buoyant. They met this evening with labor activists and said they would begin publishing leaflets to appeal for more protesters. The Government, they said, has made no attempt to reach them to try to negotiate a solution to the crisis, although they promised today to call off the street protests if their election victories were honored.
"Milosevic has only two options left," said Zoran Djindjic, the leader of the opposition, in an interview this evening. "He can admit defeat and honor the election results or he can arrest all of us. Either option is good for us. If he arrests us, it will hasten his demise, leaving him isolated domestically and internationally. Such a move would also split the police and military. If he recognizes the election results we can build a political base to topple him in the presidential elections next year."
There were some cracks today in the government facade.
Several Supreme Court justices condemned the Court's decision to support the President's annulment of the Nov. 17 local elections. The election, if it had not been nullified, would have seen the opposition take control of City Hall in Belgrade and in several other large cities.
In a letter published in the independent daily Nasa Borba, Judge Zoran Ivosevic wrote, "I won't accept the slavish role of the court, a dependent judiciary filled with loyal and incompetent judges. I won't keep quiet about their shameful role."
There were also a few indications that the President may not be able to count on all of his police officers. When a group of students passed officers in the center of Belgrade this afternoon, they flashed them the traditional Serbian three-fingered salute and received a salute in return. Neither did the police intervene when dozens of students sprayed the Parliament building with detergent, a symbol, the students said, of the need to cleanse the Government. They wrote on its walls "Red Bandits, Thieves, We Are the Winners."
Many of the 50,000 demonstrators who turned out in Belgrade this afternoon said the closure of B-92 and nightly threats on state television had fueled their determination to press on with the marches.
"None of us wants to destroy anything, but to build a democratic system," said a 46-year-old government employee, who insisted on not being identified, as he walked with the crowd down Kolarceva Street. "We played by the rules and Milosevic robbed us. I have two children and I will stay out here for them."
Milica Kubuvovic, the news editor at B-92, expressed the frustration and outrage of many in the capital as she stood in the radio station's news room, holding a copy of a faxed letter from the Ministry for Transport and Communication. The letter said the station, which has been denied a license by the Government since it was opened seven years ago, was being closed because it "does not have a working license." B-92 doggedly reported on the protests, even pumping out its programming in the face of powerful Government jamming during the last week.
"After all we have tried to do, after all our work, to end like this is terribly, terribly painful," she said. "We fought the jamming, we carried on in spite of everything, but now no one can hear us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Opposition protests in Serbia have prompted new punitive measures by President Slobodan Milosevic, including closing a popular radio station. A trolley-bus driver cheered on marchers in Belgrade yesterday. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; RADIO; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; STRIKES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (77%); RIOTS (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); STRIKES (75%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (66%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



80 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Warns Serbia Against Crushing Protests

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
In the face of opposition demonstrations by tens of thousands of Serbs this week, the United States today stepped up its criticism of President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia and warned that a crackdown on the protesters could doom the country's hopes to be freed of economic and political sanctions.
But officials said the United States did not plan to intervene in the crisis. 
 The officials rejected suggestions that the United States has sided with Mr. Milosevic because he is seen as a guarantor of the Dayton peace accord and Balkan stability.
"We are taking the side of democracy and supporting the right of the people in Serbia to speak their minds and have their votes counted in a valid election," one senior official said. "We won't defend Milosevic just because he's helping with Dayton if at the same time he's extinguishing democracy and the right to free assembly and free speech."
Nicholas Burns, the State Department spokesman, and the White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, made clear that the United States would continue to impose unilateral measures, the so-called "outer wall" of sanctions, that Mr. Milosevic would like to have lifted.
Those sanctions deny Serbia full diplomatic relations with the United States, most-favored-nation trading status, and credit through American Government lending agencies. They also mean an effective American veto on Serbian participation in the United Nations, International Monetary Fund, World Bank and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
"Certainly it would be a real setback to Serbia's desire to see that outer wall of sanctions removed if there was to be any violent repression of the dissent now taking place in Belgrade and elsewhere in Serbia," Mr. McCurry said today.
As a gesture of American displeasure, the United States today withdrew an invitation to Serbia to participate in talks on economic cooperation in southeast Europe that are scheduled to begin on Wednesday in Geneva, American officials said.
The size of the opposition vote and subsequent demonstrations showed a variety of discontents with Mr. Milosevic, a senior official said. But it is not clear that the opposition will coalesce. And it is possible that Mr. Milosevic will make a deal with the opposition, or part of it, and share some power, rather than try to crack down on the protests and risk being ousted, the official said.
The United States would retain leverage with any Serbian Government, the official said, saying that Mr. Milosevic's importance to the Dayton accords on Bosnia has diminished since new constitutional and governmental structures were put into place there following national elections in September.
"A change of Government would create uncertainties, but would not necessarily be a bad thing," the official said.
Mr. Burns said today that the Serbian Government "must respect the results of the municipal elections, the results that were flagrantly overturned by anti-democratic measures," causing the protests in Belgrade. The United States and its European allies have insisted in public and in private that Mr. Milosevic refrain from using force against the demonstrators, and Mr. Burns said on Monday that renewed economic sanctions are "a live possibility" if the public protests are crushed.
But the United States would have difficulty trying to reimpose sanctions already lifted by the United Nations Security Council after the Bosnian national elections in September and could not do so unilaterally, American officials said today. Those sanctions, which had been suspended but are now lifted entirely, blocked private investment in and most trade with Serbia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (50%); ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ELECTIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EMBARGOES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



81 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ex-Archer Daniels Officers Indicted by Federal Jury
 Three former officers of Archer Daniels Midland, the agri-business giant that has long been one of the country's most influential and politically powerful corporations, were indicted by a Federal grand jury on charges that they conspired with competitors to fix the prices of a feed additive. Among those indicted was Mark E. Whitacre, who for almost three years was a secret Government informant.
Also indicted was a senior executive at the Ajinomoto Company in Japan. All the men indicted vowed to fight the charges. [Page A1.]
 
Inflation Found Overstated
The Government has been overstating the inflation rate by about 1.1 percent a year, an independent commission appointed by Congress is to report today, according to people familiar with the study. The commission will call on Congress and the Administration to rectify the problem in the Consumer Price Index, which may be costing taxpayers billions in higher Social Security and other benefit payments. [A1.]
 
Leading Indicators Rise
The index of leading economic indicators rose by one-tenth of 1 percent in October, its ninth consecutive gain. But sales of new homes fell 8.7 percent for the month, and the two reports, pointing to a moderating economy, only muddled the economic picture, coming a day after signs of strength. [D4.]
 
G.M. Again Reports Weak Sales
General Motors reported dismal auto sales for the second consecutive month, shortly before the stock market's close. [D4.]
 
I.B.M. Sells 100-Year Bonds
I.B.M. entered the debt markets in a big way, offering an issue of 100-year bonds that yield 7.22 percent -- sufficiently attractive relative to Government securities to push Treasuries off their early highs. The 30-year Treasury yield ended unchanged at 6.36 percent. [D22.]
 
State to Assist Miami on Budget
Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida decided to appoint a state oversight board to help Miami solve its budget crisis but stopped short of a state takeover of the city's finances. [A14.]
 
Advanta to Stop Marketing Card
Giving way to a legal attack by Mastercard and Visa, Advanta, a rapidly growing credit card issuer, temporarily agreed to stop marketing the Rewards Accelerator credit card, a Visa or Mastercard linked to American Express' frequent-flier program. [D2.]
 
Lucas Varity Plans Cutbacks
Lucas Varity, the London-based auto parts company, plans to sell 13 businesses, take a $420 million charge and cut 3,000 jobs. [D4.]
 
Judge in Prudential Case Faulted
A lawyer representing Prudential Insurance policyholders requested that a Federal judge, Alfred Wolin, step down from presiding over a dispute, saying he held an improper private meeting with the company's chairman. [D2.]
 
TCI Satellite: A Tough Launch?
Tele-Communications, the nation's largest cable operator, is known for building up and spinning off fledgling businesses, the latest of which, TCI Satellite Entertainment, begins trading tomorrow. But if analysts are correct, the going could be bumpy. Market Place. [D10.]
 
Nielsen in European Settlement
A. C. Nielsen agreed with the European Commission to end pricing practices that Information Resources said had thwarted competition in sales tracking services. [D9.]
 
Soros Backs Russian School
George Soros, the Hungarian-born investor, has guaranteed $1 million for a fledgling American-style business school at the University of St. Petersburg in Russia. [B13.]
Companies Cut College Recruiting
 
Corporate recruiters are cutting back on college visits and sharpening curriculum requirements to reduce the need to train new employees. Colleges, in turn, are improving students' preparation for jobs. [B13.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,442.69 down 79.01
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.36% Unchanged
The Dollar -- 113.29 down 1.26

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (94%); V (NYSE) (82%); 2802 (TSE) (71%); GM (NYSE) (54%); AXP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (94%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (94%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (94%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (94%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (94%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (71%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (71%); SIC2079 SHORTENING, TABLE OILS, MARGARINE & OTHER EDIBLE FATS & OILS, NEC (71%); SIC2076 VEGETABLE OIL MILLS, EXCEPT CORN, COTTONSEED, & SOYBEAN (71%); SIC2074 COTTONSEED OIL MILLS (71%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (86%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (94%); VISA INC (82%); AJINOMOTO CO INC (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); JAPAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (86%); MIAMI, FL, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INFLATION (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); BONDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); PRICE FIXING (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); NEW HOME SALES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); LOYALTY MARKETING (73%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AGRICULTURE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LIVESTOCK FEED (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (67%); INSURANCE POLICIES (67%); JUDGES (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



82 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitian Desk

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International
 
International A3-13
 
BOMB KILLS TWO IN PARIS
A powerful explosion ripped apart one car of a packed commuter train pulling into a Paris rail station at the height of the evening rush hour, killing two passengers and critically wounding seven. A3
 
CLINTON GETS REPRIEVE ON CUBA
A European Union vote urging Cuba to improve its policies on human rights has cleared the way for President Clinton to waive part of a new law intended to punish foreign companies operating there. A6
 
CALI'S ECONOMY STALLS
With Colombia's drug kingpins dead or under arrest, Cali's old go-go economy is struggling to overcome the vacuum left by drug-related businesses stopped cold. A7
 
MONEY-LAUNDERING TRIAL
A banker convicted of money-laundering has asked for a new trial, saying a Citibank executive who had served as a private banker for the brother of a former Mexican President lied in testimony. A8
 
GAME OF CHICKEN IN SERBIA
Slobodan Milosevic and anti-Government protesters stiffened in their two-week standoff, with the Serbian leader closing an independent news station and opposition leaders calling for strikes. A10
The United States stepped up its criticism of the Serbia leader. A10
 
THE END OF ZAIRE?
The collapse of the Zairian Army is being seen by many as a harbinger of the breakup of Zaire, and the rebels' success or failure could be a bellwether for revolutionaries in other provinces. A12
The Zairian rebels claimed to have captured more cities. A12
 
WARNING FROM ENVOY TO MEXICO
In an interview in which he said he would soon leave his post, the American Ambassador to Mexico warned that too few Mexicans are benefiting from economic reforms. A9
 
JAPANESE BARRED FOR WAR CRIMES
For the first time, the Justice Department has barred Japan Army veterans suspected of war crimes from the U.S. A15
Bulgan Journal: A missing camel, a gas pump, and the wait. A4
 
National
 
INFLATION INFLATED, PANEL SAYS
An independent commission appointed by Congress will report that the Government has been overstating the inflation rate by about 1.1 percentage points a year. A1
 
News analysis: A fierce political struggle lies ahead. B12
 
RULING FOR GAY MARRIAGE
A judge in Honolulu ruled that lawyers for the State of Hawaii had failed to show any compelling reason for the ban on gay marriages, and that it should be revoked. A1
 
BRADY BILL BEFORE COURT
The Clinton Administration tried to persuade the Supreme Court that the Brady gun control law does not infringe the constitutional principles of state sovereignty. A1
 
WATER SUSPECTED ON MOON
Scientists think they've found water on the Moon, fueling visions of people living in lunar colonies. A1
 
CONTROL BOARD FOR MIAMI
Florida's Governor decided to appoint a state oversight board to work with the city of Miami to solve its budget crisis. A14
 
FOUR INDICTED IN PRICE FIXING
Three former officers of Archer Daniels Midland, the agricultural giant that has long been one of the country's most influential and politically powerful corporations, were indicted by a Federal grand jury on charges that they conspired with competitors to fix the prices of a feed additive. A senior executive of Ajinomoto Company of Japan was also indicted. A1
 
CALIFORNIA SPEAKER CHOSEN
Cruz Bustamante became the first Hispanic speaker of the California Assembly, as the Democrats who now control the legislature called for an end to gridlock. A14
 
NEW LIGHT ON JUSTICE
Recently released documents show that Thurgood Marshall, the late Supreme Court Justice, provided confidential information to the F.B.I. about developments in the civil rights community. B11
 
SENATE PICKS LEADERS
Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi was re-elected as majority leader, and Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota was chosen again to lead the minority. B12
 
ARGUING CAMPAIGN FINANCE
Senate Democrats demanded prompt action on campaign finance legislation. B12
 
Three witness testified that O. J. Simpson beat his wife. A15
 
George Stephanopoulos will teach at Columbia University. A23
 
Metro Report
 
NOMINATION FOR TOP COURT
Governor Pataki, who has criticized the state's highest court as soft on crime, announced his first nomination to the Court of Appeals, choosing Richard C. Wesley, a pro-death-penalty Republican with a reputation for supporting prosecutors and restraining judicial powers. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
RECORD INDUSTRY SLUMP
Growth in the $12 billion record industry has slowed to a near standstill. A malaise is sweeping every facet of music -- its production, distribution and consumption. A1
 
Antonia Fraser's detective work for a new book. C13
 
WQXR marks 60th year. C14
 
Theater: "The Seven Streams of the River Ota." C13
 
Music: David Daniels, counter tenor. C15
 
Books: "The Woman and the Ape," by Peter Hoeg. C17
 
Television: "Musicals Great Musicals." C15
 
"Dateline: Screams in the Night." C18
 
TV Notes C18
 
Sports B14-19
 
Baseball: Yankees sign Girardi. B18
 
Basketball: Knicks downed by Heat. B15
 
Column: Vecsey on the Knicks. B15
 
Football: Cowboys' Lett fails drug test and is banned for a year. B15
 
Brown's uncertain status. B19
 
Hockey: Devils shut out Panthers. B17
 
The Living Section C1-8
 
The martini: Stirred, shaken
 
or eaten. C1
 
At lunch with Jessica Hagedorn: The art of the melange. C1
 
Food Notes C2
 
Metropolitan Diary C2
 
As Hanukkah approaches, olive oil takes center stage. C3
 
Health C10
 
Personal Health: The value of early mammography.
 
Alcohol increases blood estrogen levels in those taking it.
 
A new test to help avoid unneeded appendectomies.
 
Obituaries D25-26
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A28-29
 
Editorials
 
The teamsters' fateful choice.
 
Time of troubles in Algeria.
 
Mr. Pataki picks a judge.
 
Letters
 
Thomas L. Friedman: Fed up.
 
Frank Rich: The mall pall.
 
Bill Kovach: When public business goes private.
 
Adrian Karatnycky: China turns the tables.
 
Chronicle B5
 
Crossword C15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); COLOMBIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); COLOMBIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); HAWAII, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (87%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); GUN CONTROL (76%); MARRIAGE LAW (76%); WAR CRIMES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); MONEY LAUNDERING (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); INFLATION (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ARMIES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); ARRESTS (70%); JUDGES (69%); VETERANS (65%); FIREARMS (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); MARRIAGE (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



83 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: The Great Nevada Litigation Rush;
Building Is Booming and California Lawyers Are Massing on State Line

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev.

 BODY:
It happened first in California 15 years ago: a housing boom touched off a litigation boom as legions of lawyers filed lawsuits accusing builders of shoddy workmanship.
Now it is Nevada's turn. 
 Fueled by Americans' gambling fever, Las Vegas and other Nevada resort cities have seen dizzying economic and population growth the last decade. And California lawyers who specialize in cases involving home construction defects, hit by a slump in their state's housing market, are practically drooling over the prospects next door. They are taking the Nevada bar exam at double the rate of three years ago and are aggressively wooing Nevada property managers and homeowners associations.
Ross Feinberg, a lawyer in Newport Beach, Calif., who has won $25 million in defect settlements for 21 California homeowners associations since 1986, described Nevada as "a few years away from being as busy as we are here." Two of his associates were admitted to the Nevada bar in October.
The rush of plaintiffs' lawyers into virgin territory to prospect for litigation gold -- whether in boomtowns, new products or fast-growth companies -- is nothing new, of course. But what makes the carpetbaggers' invasion of Nevada different is that it is taking place at the height of a national backlash against the litigation explosion of recent years.
Last December, Congress enacted a law aimed at curbing frivolous class-action shareholder lawsuits. In November, voters in bellwether California defeated 3 to 1 a measure supported by plaintiffs' lawyers that would have made it easier to bring such suits in cases involving stock fraud. Also last month, Gov. Pete Wilson of California called for limits on damages in disputes involving construction defects.
As the political climate shifts, Nevada could join California in testing trial lawyers' resilience. Already, the forces aligned against them are formidable: builders are threatening to stop building; insurers are raising rates, and some homeowners are revolting against lawsuits being pursued in their names.
For now, though, the plaintiffs' lawyers seem undeterred, even cocky. "There's been such a vast amount of construction at a fever pace, Nevada will be a good place to practice for years," said Dave Johnson, a Las Vegas lawyer whose clients are homeowners associations.
The lawyers, who typically take defect cases on contingency and get a third of any award, troll for clients at trade shows for condominium managers and put on slide shows, prodding homeowners associations to sue their builders. Several construction experts from San Diego, who specialize in testifying in court, have obtained professional licenses in Nevada and are considering opening satellite offices.
After attending a recent trade show, Kathy D. Grimes, co-founder of a Las Vegas company that manages 130 condominium complexes, was deluged with boxes of cookies and other gifts sent by lawyers and participants. "We've been in business 15 years, and we've never had this kind of attention," she said.
Such pitches are apparently paying off. A year ago, only one of her clients was suing a developer, Ms. Grimes said; today, six are.
About a dozen construction defect cases are pending in Clark County District Court in Las Vegas, and lawyers say that is only the beginning of the wave of lawsuits that is expected.
That the California lawyers would focus on Nevada was probably inevitable. Housing construction has plummeted in California, while Nevada's exploding economy has produced an almost insatiable demand for it. And the number of new-home sales in Las Vegas, one of America's fastest-growing cities, with a population of nearly a million, has accelerated from 12,000 a decade ago to 27,000 last year to more than 23,000 in the first nine months of this year. The blistering pace has earned Las Vegas the title "City on Steroids."
It has also resulted, some people say, in leaky roofs and other construction deficiencies. Terry Strong, who bought a $380,000 lakeside home in a development northwest of the city in 1990, says she dreads the summer thunderstorms that sweep across the 12,000-foot Spring Mountains and onto the new subdivisions that blanket the desert plateau. The wind sets off a kettle drum symphony from three unsecured sheet-metal chimney flues, she says, and the rain seeps through the tile roof and into the walls, ruining carpet, staining ceilings and warping windows. She figures the repairs will cost $90,000.
Mrs. Strong, 52, was not about to foot the bill. Nor would 11 neighbors who said they had similar problems. Last month, they settled a construction defect suit for $1.1 million with their builder's insurer.
But the story does not end there. Many residents of the development are furious at Mrs. Strong and her fellow plaintiffs. They believe the suit drove down property values, Mrs. Strong said. Some are refusing to speak to her. "Once you start this thing, you're stuck with living with the problems," she added.
Builders portray plaintiffs' lawyers as sharks out for a kill. In California, many developers say they are pulling out of the condominium market because condo owners have the organizational and financial influence to undertake expensive lawsuits. And they complain that they are at a particular disadvantage because California is one of the few states that holds them accountable for material variations from architects' plans or industry standards by any of their subcontractors, even if no damage results.
Such strict liability makes them an easy target for spurious claims, the builders contend. "It's legalized extortion," Michael D. Pattinson, president of Barratt American Inc., said. "They can pull out anything and say this doesn't comply, and they've got us. In the majority of cases I've been involved with, the case always contains massive exaggerations of defects. In some cases, I believe there are no defects at all."
Mr. Pattinson points to a $10.5 million settlement his company reached with a 300-unit San Diego project, which included claims like $28,000 to tighten shower heads. The lawyers' share was $4 million, leaving homeowners with $6.5 million, he said, but by Barratt's estimate, the litigation knocked $8.7 million off the value of the property. "It is the exaggeration of claims that accelerates the diminution of value," Mr. Pattinson said.
Plaintiffs' lawyers are pushing for adoption of strict liability in Nevada.The state's supreme court has heard oral arguments on the issue and is expected rule as early as January.
Barring some form of relief, builders in California are predicting a shortage of affordable housing. Construction of new homes is plummeting to a projected 95,000 this year from 314,000 in 1989. Of the total, the number of new condos has fallen even faster, to 19,000 from more than 168,000.
A recent industry study of 64 California condominium builders found that two-thirds were no longer building attached housing, creating an estimated $460 million annual economic loss for the state. "We're not touching them anymore," Robert Rivinius, director of California's Building Industry Association, said. "Any large project that has insurance will be sued." Builders, he said, "don't want to stand in line to be sued."
Charles W. Quackenbush, the California insurance commissioner, said he had no doubt the market had dried up because of litigation. "It's a very serious problem," he said. "The most affordable housing in California is condos, and no one is building them."
Builders say the litigiousness of homeowners is partly responsible for stalling the prestigious 1,000-acre Playa Vista project in coastal Los Angeles, which is to include the new headquarters of Dreamworks SKG, the Hollywood studio, and 13,000 condominiums. Despite the project's cachet, no established builders want to participate. "The legal climate associated with multifamily housing could compromise this vision," Douglas J. Gardner, project manager for Maguire Thomas Partners, a Los Angeles developer, said in a letter in May urging legislative reform.
To all the criticism, trial lawyers retort that they play a constructive role, putting pressure on real estate developers to live up to the highest standards. Too many people see their home investment sour from rotting balconies, mushroom-sprouting carpets and stucco-cracking earth movement, they say.
"It's not the lawyers who build these crummy values," said Kenneth S. Kasdan, a plaintiffs' counsel in Irvine, Calif., who is working as a consultant on a Las Vegas case. "It's shoddy construction. The alternative is to build them right."
Some contractors do take short cuts. A California study of the damage caused by the 1994 earthquake found numerous cases of inadequate design and construction, including frequent substitution of smaller, vinyl-coated box nails for the more expensive, higher-strength common nails required under the state's building code.
Plaintiffs' lawyers say California consumers are benefiting from improved home designs and from self-policing by builders -- legacies, they say, of litigation. "It's no longer a buyer beware state," said Thomas E. Miller, a lawyer in Newport Beach, Calif., who has won $150 million for plaintiffs in settlements and awards in 15 years. Regarded as the king of construction defect litigation and the author of a textbook on the subject, Mr. Miller drives a white Porsche with a license plate that reads: "DEFECT."
But big insurers, including Ohio Casualty and Cigna, have abandoned the liability market for condo and town house construction in California, leaving it to small, unregulated carriers. The reason is simple, says Thomas G. McCall, a construction specialist with Anderson & Anderson, an Irvine, Calif., insurance broker. "San Diego," he explained, "has a 100 percent rate of home builders' being sued by associations." He says California rates are nearly double the national average, while those in Nevada and other high-growth states are 25 percent higher.
Some homeowners say they wish the trial lawyers would go away. Kristin Cihos Williams blamed a lawsuit filed by the board of her former condominium complex in Spring Valley, Calif., for driving down the value of her condo, which she recently sold at a $38,000 loss. She says the complaints of shoddy construction work scared away mortgage lenders, though inspectors hired by her buyer found none of the problems cited in the lawsuit.
"I think lawyers are taking advantage of weaknesses in associations," Ms. Cihos Williams said. "It's their meal ticket."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 5, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day yesterday, with an article about a housing boom in Nevada that has led to a sharp increase in litigation against contractors, misspelled the given name of a man shown inspecting damage to a residential development and misstated his occupation. He is Steven Doze, not Seven, a construction consultant, not a lawyer.
The caption also misidentified the development. It is Opulence Community in southwest Las Vegas, Nev., not Harbor Cove in northwest Las Vegas.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harbor Cove is a development of 120 Mediterranean-style homes on Lake Jacquelyn, a man-made lake northwest of Las Vegas. "Detecting Defects . . ." Terry Strong's six-year-old, $380,000 home in Harbor Cove, a community near Las Vegas, Nev., developed several problems, including cracks in the stucco finish. She and a group of neighbors brought a construction defect suit against the developers and settled for 1.1 million. ". . . And Seeking Legal Recourse" Seven Doze, left, and Thomas E. Miller, both lawyers, inspects damage after an electrical fire at another Harbor Cove residence. Mr. Miller of Newport Beach, Calif., has won $150 million for plaintiffs in settlements and awards over 15 years. (Photographs by Jack Dempsey/The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Where California Leads, Nevada May Follow" shows number of building permits in southern Nevada from 1986 to 1996, contractor complaints in California, as a percentage of all residential homes built from 1986 to 1996 and number of California lawyers taking the Nevada bar exam from 1991 to 1996. (Sources: Southern Nevada Home Builders Association, California Contractors State License Board, California Construction Industry Research Board, State Bar of Nevada) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE BAR OF NEVADA (90%); STATE BAR OF NEVADA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE BAR OF NEVADA (90%); STATE BAR OF NEVADA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (99%); NEVADA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LEGAL PROFESSION LITIGATION (94%); LAWYERS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION INSURANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (73%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (73%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); TESTIMONY (72%); INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, ANDREA

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1996



84 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIME;
A Thriller Not to Carry On Your Next Plane Trip

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

AIRFRAME
By Michael Crichton
352 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $26.
 A wide-body passenger jet, TransPacific Airlines Flight 545, en route from Hong Kong to Denver, suddenly goes through a violent series of steep dives and climbs. The pilot requests priority clearance for emergency landing at Los Angeles. His plane is minimally damaged, but passengers have been injured, some fatally, and he may need as many as 40 ambulances.
At home in nearby Glendale, Casey Singleton is explaining to her 7-year-old daughter that her position at Norton Aircraft is now "Quality Assurance rep on the Incident Review Team," which means she checks the planes after they leave the plant. Casey's beeper squeals, calling her to an emergency team meeting, where she learns not only of the incident involving the airliner, which Norton built, but also of the possible $8 billion sale of 50 similar wide-body jets to China, depending on whether the plane is found to be safe. 
 "I fly to Beijing Sunday," the chief operating officer tells Casey and her team, "and sign the letter of intent with the Minister of Transport. He's going to want to know what happened to Flight 545. And I better be able to tell him, or he'll turn around and sign with Airbus." He concludes: "The future of Norton Aircraft is riding on this investigation. So I don't want to hear anything but answers. And I want them inside a week."
Thus the reader is hurled unsubtly into Michael Crichton's latest exercise in corporate realism, which bristles like the author's previous fictions (most notably "Disclosure," "Rising Sun" and "Jurassic Park") with arcane terms and technological jargon. And as much as you may be put off by the author's heavy-handed plotting and wooden characterization, you are elated to be overcoming the frustrations recently visited by the mystery of T.W.A. Flight 800, and to be able to track successfully the elusive cause of an air disaster.
What Casey's team suspects may have caused Flight 545's problem is a "slats deploy," with no autopilot override. The plane in question, an N-22, has had such a problem before. In case you don't understand what this means, Casey has been assigned an assistant who is ignorant of the airframe business to whom she says spontaneously: "You know anything about aerodynamics? No? Well, an aircraft flies because of the shape of the wing."
She goes on to explain: "When the aircraft is moving slower, during takeoff and landing, the wing needs greater curvature to maintain lift. So, at those times we increase the curvature, by extending sections in the front and back -- flaps at the back, and slats at the leading edge." The trouble is, "If the slats extend, the plane may become unstable." And this appears to be what happened to Flight 545.
Casey will deliver such lectures at the drop of Mr. Crichton's fingers on his word processor. She explains why D.F.D.R.'s -- digital flight data recorders, or black boxes -- work properly in only one out of six cases. She explains that airliners are built safe but that deregulation has put such economic pressure on the airlines that corners have been cut. Counterfeit parts have been used. Maintenance has gotten sloppy.
And, Casey explains, when something goes wrong, a media industry that has grown hostile and shallow with the ascendancy of television always jumps to the wrong conclusion. Why, just look at what happened to the DC-10, "a good aircraft . . . destroyed by bad press," because the crash of an American Airlines flight from Chicago to Los Angeles in May 1979 was misreported and misunderstood. But economies are also forcing technological advances, like the design of the "Virtual Heads-Up Display," which projects repair manuals on the inside of sets of glasses that maintenance people can wear.
Do these lectures have anything to do with the plot of "Airframe"? Actually, you can figure out from them approximately what is going to happen in the story. The characters are fleshed out just enough to make you care about the outcome. And Mr. Crichton has made good dramatic use of aircraft-manufacturing scenery, like the towering equipment erected to produce certain parts, or the Cycle Electrical Test, as it is known, which tests in rapid succession "everything from cabin lights to reading lights, cockpit display panels, engine ignition and landing-gear wheels."
Imagine searching a plane for a key part and being stalked by adversaries while such a test is going on. The scene will work well in the coming film version.
Less entertaining is Mr. Crichton's habit of saying that something significant has happened in a scene while at the same time withholding its significance. Repeatedly, a character will exclaim over seeing something yet neglect to say what it is, or the narrator will describe one character saying something to another without revealing what was said. Gradually these blank spaces form a pattern that shapes the story's climax, which turns out to be satisfying enough in its way but also manipulative and patronizing.
What Mr. Crichton inadvertently reveals by this practice is that his characters are too shallow to have thought processes, that they are binary simpletons who either know or don't know, either understand or are stunned. Altogether they nearly fit Casey's description of the engineers at Norton Aircraft: "Emotionally, they're all 13 years old, stuck at the age just before boys stop playing with toys, because they've discovered girls. They're all still playing with toys. They have poor social skills, dress badly -- but they're extremely intelligent and well trained, and they are very arrogant in their way. Outsiders are definitely not allowed to play."
By playing hide and seek with his plot, Mr. Crichton writes as if he were an engineer and his readers were all outsiders. Yet at the same time, he has taken on a complex subject in "Airframe" and made its subtleties dramatically vivid. When you finish the novel and ask yourself why you end up feeling both entertained and frustrated, you are forced to reflect that a writer clever enough to bring such material to life ought to have been able to tell his story without playing manipulative games with the reader.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Crichton. (Jonathan Exley/Afred A. Knopf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AIRFRAME (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); CHINA (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); CHINA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS AIRLINES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); WRITERS (86%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); AIRCRAFT MFG (74%); LITERATURE (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; CRICHTON, MICHAEL JOHN MICHAEL 'MICHAEL' CRICHTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



85 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Gains Against Mark On German Rate-Cut Rumor

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar moved slightly higher against the mark yesterday, in part because of a rumor that the German central bank might reduce interest rates, but it ended mixed in other foreign-exchange dealings.
Traders said there was little to guide the market for the first time this week, after the dollar's surge on Monday and the British pound's tumble on Tuesday. Some attributed the dollar's mixed showing to zigzags in the American stock and bond markets. Stock prices lurched sharply lower yesterday before partly rebounding at day's end. 
 "These markets travel in tandem when there's no economic news or fundamental news driving it one way or another," said Kevin Lawrie, vice president for foreign-exchange trading at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
Late yesterday in New York, the dollar sold for 1.5601 marks, up from 1.5568 on Tuesday. It traded at 113.07 Japanese yen, down from 113.29 yen. The British pound, which lost more than 2 percent against the dollar on Tuesday, traded at $1.6434, down from $1.6445.
The rumor of a rate reduction by the German central bank, the Bundesbank, coincided with the release of economic data showing that the country's economy grew at an anemic rate of eight-tenths of 1 percent in the third quarter.
The data came a day before the bank's rate-setting council meets. In addition, the German Government is to release November unemployment data today, and forecasters have speculated that joblessness would increase. That could put pressure on the Bundesbank to reduce rates.
Lower rates would be aimed at stimulating the German economy by making loans cheaper, reducing the mark's value and helping exports. But Bundesbank officials have said they see no reason to reduce rates. They have tried, with some success, to reduce the mark's value by calling for a higher dollar.
The yen also derived strength against the dollar from renewed fear that the American currency's ascent past 114 yen on Monday might anger American exporters, who say that the dollar's recent rebound is hurting their sales to Japan. "I don't think there's much life for the dollar above 114 yen," said John McCarthy, foreign-exchange manager at ING Capital Markets in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BRITISH POUND (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); BONDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); EXPORT PROMOTION (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



86 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Business Interests Overshadow Human Rights, Survey Reports

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The world's major nations have increasingly subordinated human rights in foreign policy, overlooking abuses to promote trade or to reflect political calculations, Human Rights Watch said today in an annual report.
The organization strongly criticized many powerful nations, particularly the United States, accusing them of failing to press Governments in China, Indonesia, Mexico, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia to improve human rights for fear of losing access to lucrative markets. 
 The organization also rebuked the NATO-led nations protecting the tenuous peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina for not arresting people charged with war crimes, saying the peacekeepers are "obsessed with minimizing risks" to their troops.
And it said the failure to denounce human rights abuses by all sides in the Middle East, including Israel and the Palestinian Authority, threatened the peace effort there.
"Although few governments dared to jettison human rights explicitly, the major powers settled far too often in 1996 for the facade of a human rights policy rather than a genuine effort to promote human rights," the report said.
The State Department's spokesman, Nicholas Burns, objected to the rebuke, saying the United States remained the world's strongest advocate for human rights, often acting virtually alone, as in its isolation of repressive countries like Iran.
The group's criticism of American policy toward China came on the heels of Secretary of State Warren Christopher's trip there late last month and President Clinton's meeting in Manila with China's President, Jiang Zemin. Although Mr. Clinton and Mr. Christopher insisted that human rights remained a priority, the meetings concentrated on the broader relationship between the two countries, drawing criticism from human rights advocates.
At a news conference here today, Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, said China had not responded to the American policy of engagement as a way to open China's economy and society. In fact, he said, China has stepped up its repression of dissidents since the Clinton Administration removed human rights as a factor in determining China's trade status.
While sharply critical of major nations, Human Rights Watch said some smaller nations had taken tentative steps to improve social, economic and political freedom.
It cited South Africa, where the National Commission on Truth and Recognition has investigated abuses by the former apartheid Government; South Korea, where two former Presidents, Chun Doo Hwan and Roh Tae Woo, were tried and convicted for their roles in a coup in 1979 and an army massacre of demonstrators in Kwangju in 1980; and India, Indonesia, Guatemala and Honduras, where military and police officials face dismissals or trials for killings or violence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NIGERIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HONDURAS (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: KWANGJU, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (51%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (ORGN) HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (ORGN) HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NIGERIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HONDURAS (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); KWANGJU, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (51%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET HUMAN RIGHTS (95%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); ARMIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); COUPS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); POLICE FORCES (56%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



87 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: S.&L.'s Post Loss After Insurance Fund Fee

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The United States savings and loan industry posted a loss of $505 million in the third quarter after paying a one-time fee to replenish its deposit insurance fund, the Office of Thrift Supervision said today.
Nevertheless, the industry remains healthy. If the $2.1 billion fee for the fund that insures their deposits had not been needed, savings institutions would have earned $1.6 billion in the third quarter, the office said. In the second quarter, the industry earned $1.89 billion. 
 After years of poor earnings hampered by bad loans, the institutions are enjoying healthy loan growth -- especially in California, which is recovering from a recession.
In return for the one-time insurance fund contribution, the savings and loans will pay lower premiums to the Savings Association Insurance Fund, which will help earnings in subsequent quarters.
Third-quarter savings and loan profits were unchanged from the third quarter of last year, when savings and loans also posted $1.6 billion in earnings, the agency said.
The number of problem institutions continued to drop. The agency listed only 31 savings and loans as troubled in the third quarter, down from 33 in the second quarter and 49 at the end of the third quarter of 1995.
Delinquent loans and other troubled assets were $9.3 billion, the same as in the second quarter.
The agency was regulating 1,378 institutions as of Sept. 30, down from 1,397 at the end of the second quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION; SAVINGS ASSN INSURANCE FUND OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION; SAVINGS ASSN INSURANCE FUND OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) SAVINGS & LOANS (96%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



88 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: G.I. Charm Overcomes Anxieties In Hungary

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: TASZAR, Hungary

 BODY:
The prospect of thousands of American soldiers setting up base camp in this tiny village that does not rate a dot on most maps sent dizzying visions through many minds here. On one hand there were dreams of instant wealth from the world's richest army, on the other worries about a dive in moral standards as free-wheeling G.I.'s behaved as depicted in Hollywood movies.
Now, after the town has served as the logistical base for the United States military operations in Bosnia for nearly a year, neither the fantasies nor fears of Taszar's residents have materialized. 
 The few unemployed -- estimated at 20 of a total population of 2,400 -- have been employed. Some hastily established restaurants with an American flavor, like Top Gun and Country Pub, in the nearby provincial capital of Kaposvar, have cashed in. But instead of buying tens of millions of dollars' worth of Hungarian food, as some Hungarians expected, the United States Army has maintained its own supply lines. Almost everything from eggs to Coca-Cola has been flown in. Eager construction companies soon learned that the American Army imports its own.
As for the wild side, some locals wish they had seen it. The 4,000 American soldiers are mostly cooped up inside the camp where a gym, movies, pizza parlor and beer tent have been set up. Rules intended to insure that American soldiers are safe, but which sound like prudish edicts from the Victorian era, prevent soldiers from leaving the camp without special permission.
To accept a dinner invitation from a Hungarian family in a house one block away, American soldiers must make a request to the Army's "force protection unit." To drive seven miles to Kaposvar to go to a restaurant, soldiers must travel in groups of no fewer than 10 organized by the "morale, welfare and recreation unit." The drinking rule states that soldiers can drink in the camp's beer tent, but not beyond the camp's perimeters.
But while would-be entrepreneurs are disappointed, Taszar's Mayor, Jozsef Kovacs, who is also the village doctor, says he thinks the right balance has been struck.
"People were afraid of AIDS, prostitutes and gang violence," said Dr. Kovacs. "But we have learned that the American soldiers are civilized and well-behaved people."
The American operations here are centered around a Hungarian military airfield that was established by the Soviet Union in the 1950's after Tito led Yugoslavia out of the Warsaw Pact.
It is the first American base established in a former Warsaw Pact country, and the signs of East-meets-West are small but telling. The American flag that hangs from a temporary office set up in the middle of the village flutters over a white statue of Yuri Gagarin, the first Soviet astronaut. The postcards of fighter jets decorating a nearby sandwich stand are of Soviet-made MIG-29's.
With President Clinton's announcement that the United States would keep a reduced military presence in Bosnia next year, the Taszar base will remain but will also be scaled down, American officials said.
The American presence was embraced by the Hungarian Government as a way of showing its eagerness and ability to join NATO. But while substantial good will has been generated by the American soldiers, doubts linger among Hungarians about the wisdom of joining NATO. In September, a Gallup poll found that 47 percent were in favor with 29 percent against and 24 percent undecided, a far higher degree of ambivalence than in Poland, another former Warsaw Pact member considering NATO membership.
Those uncertainties are reflected around Taszar and Kaposvar.
"The American soldiers are involved in peacekeeping; they're different from the Russian soldiers we used to have," said Sandor Reczey, a lawyer in Kaposvar. "But what benefit would Hungary have from NATO? You need the military when we have war. And we don't want war, we want peace."

GRAPHIC: Map of Hungary highlighting Taszar: Taszar has served a year as an Army base for Bosnia operations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HUNGARY (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (54%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; HUNGARY; TASZAR (HUNGARY); UNITED STATES (96%); HUNGARY (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); FILM (71%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



89 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Judge in Bomb Inquiry Has Made a Career of Fighting Terrorism

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Jean-Louis Bruguiere, one of the three French investigating magistrates named today to lead the inquiry into the latest bombing in Paris, has plenty of reason to travel with an armored car and bodyguards.
He has accused Iran's leaders of ordering the assassination of an exiled opposition leader in Paris in 1991 and has charged a brother-in-law of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, with being among those responsible for the bombing of a French airliner two years earlier. 
 His investigations identified members of Algerian militant groups held responsible for a wave of bombings in France last year; he is building a case against the legendary terrorist known as Carlos, now in a French jail awaiting trial, and he has lately taken on an assignment to prosecute separatist violence by groups based in Corsica that has spilled over to mainland France.
Mr. Bruguiere is the 52-year-old descendant of a long line of French magistrates. French magazine articles about him have nicknamed him The Cowboy for packing a .357 Magnum pistol. And when he strolled into an exclusive Paris restaurant the other day he kept a close eye on everybody who came in or went out after him.
Why take on terrorism, as opposed to corruption, like some other well-known French magistrates? "I'm interested in politics in the broadest sense of the word," he deadpans.
An American expert, Larry C. Johnson, a former State Department and C.I.A. analyst, described Judge Bruguiere as "a courageous leader in the fight against terrorism," adding, "He has oft times had to prosecute cases against the wishes of the French Government."
Judge Bruguiere's best-known coup was the indictment in 1991 of four high Libyan officials, including a brother-in-law of Colonel Qaddafi. They were charged in the bombing that blew up a French DC-10 of the since-defunct airline U.T.A. over the Niger desert in 1989, killing 171.
But that case is unlikely to end with a jail sentence. To the French authorities, terrorism is the extension of politics by other means, and a strong enough signal can be sent to Libya by trying the defendants in absentia here.
Those responsible for the latest bombing in Paris can count on no such quarter. Only the other day, Judge Bruguiere boasted that countrywide police and paramilitary sweeps last year had eliminated the entire Algerian militant network in this country. That network was responsible for a wave of bombings in 1995 that were aimed at getting France to cut off economic support to the Government there.
That assertion that it has been eliminated may be belied by the latest attack, but whether it is Algerian groups inside or outside of France, or Corsican or Basque militants who carried it out, Judge Bruguiere and his fellow magistrates seem inclined to show them no mercy.
The judge himself is the first to acknowledge that the biggest break in the U.T.A. case may have been a judgment by Colonel Qaddafi that for Libya, hemmed in by international sanctions, terrorism had become counterproductive.
Judge Bruguiere, determined to take his investigation into Libya itself, tried to go there in 1992 in a French Navy warship, but he was turned away in Libyan waters.
But last July, Colonel Qaddafi allowed the judge to travel to Libya to put the final touches on his investigation. He came back with a Samsonite suitcase provided to him by the Libyan authorities that was armed with more than three pounds of Pentrite explosive and a detonator. It was identical in every respect to the device that blew up the DC-10.
Why would the Libyans thus incriminate themselves? Because of the crushing weight of the evidence he already had against them, the judge said, but he noted wryly that he flew back from an airfield in Tunisia in a separate plane.
With his evidence, Judge Bruguiere said, he was able to coerce the Libyans into limited cooperation. Though he was not able to interrogate the Libyan suspects he had identified as being responsible for the bombing, Libyan officials put his questions to them and came back with answers.
France has settled for trying the U.T.A. defendants in absentia in Paris in 1998. Judge Bruguiere said the trial would establish the truth even if it did not lead to jail sentences for the defendants, who if convicted would be constrained by international arrest warrants to spend the rest of their lives in Libya.
"You never know what the answers you give to his questions are going to lead to," a French lawyer once said of him, a remark Judge Bruguiere takes as a compliment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGER (79%); 

STATE: CORSE, FRANCE (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; PARIS (FRANCE); FRANCE (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGER (79%); CORSE, FRANCE (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; TERRORISM; TRANSIT SYSTEMS TERRORISM (91%); BOMBINGS (91%); MAGISTRATES (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); SENTENCING (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); COUPS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); AIRLINES (70%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; BRUGUIERE, JEAN-LOUIS (JUDGE)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



90 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Fed Study Calls Retailers Modestly Upbeat

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Retailers were generally upbeat on the eve of the holiday shopping season, according to a Federal Reserve study issued today. It also found continued moderate economic growth and little sign of inflation.
"Retailers' expectations for sales in the upcoming holiday season are modestly optimistic," according to the survey, known as the beige book. It was completed Nov. 23, just a week before the traditional start of the shopping season. 
 "In the Boston, New York and Philadelphia districts, merchants forecast gains ranging from 2 to 6 percent, year-over-year," it added. "Atlanta merchants expect a slight increase. In St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco, the season is expected to be strong."
The survey echoed sentiments of earlier reports from retailers, who were stung by dismal sales a year ago. Historically, the Christmas season accounts for about half of their sales and profits.
Retailers in some districts, including Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Cleveland, were discounting prices even before Thanksgiving Day, which marks the season's start. There are five fewer shopping days this year between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
The survey found underlying reasons to support a successful retail season, including continued economic and job growth with no significant signs of inflation.
"Moderate economic growth continues to be reported in nearly all Federal Reserve districts," the summary said. "Retail prices are stable in most districts."
"Labor markets were characterized as tight in a majority of the districts," the study said.
The survey will be used by Fed officials when they meet on Dec. 17 to consider monetary policy. Most analysts expect the Federal Open Market Committee to keep interest rates unchanged, saying the economy has slowed sufficiently to keep inflation at bay. The committee, which meets eight times a year, is composed of the seven Fed governors in Washington and five of the Fed's 12 regional bank presidents.
The Government reported last week that the gross domestic product had grown at just a 2 percent annual rate during the July-September quarter. That was slower than its 2.2 percent initial estimate and less than half the 4.7 percent pace from April through June.
Fed policy makers have not changed interest rates since January, when they cut the Federal funds rate to 5.25 percent from 5.5 percent after the economy showed signs of faltering. The rate is what banks charge each other on overnight loans.
Retail sales, about one-third of the nation's economic activity, increased in most Fed districts, the survey found.
"Sales have moved up in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, Kansas City and Dallas in the past four to six weeks, and San Francisco reported moderate improvements in recent months," the summary said. "Atlanta and St. Louis have had year-over-year increases. Chicago reported that retail sales have been flat in the past month but above last year's level."
The only reports of weaker sales were from the Cleveland and Richmond banks' regions.
Manufacturing activity increased modestly in nearly all districts. Residential real estate was slower but still healthy, and commercial real estate was generally improved.
Agricultural reports generally were good, and the increase in oil prices was prompting growing oilfield activity.
There were scattered reports of deteriorating credit quality, especially for consumers, and tighter credit standards were found in some districts.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Modest Growth Amid Seasonal Retail Sales Increases" shows a roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts according to the quarterly beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. (Source: Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (68%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON (MASS); NEW YORK CITY; PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CHRISTMAS; SALES RETAILERS (93%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



91 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: A New Way to Look at Prices

 BODY:
A commission of outside economists appointed by Congress reported yesterday that the Government's measure of inflation overestimates the impact of price increases by more than one percentage point a year. That might sound boringly technical. But the impact on the Federal budget would be huge. With one stroke of the pen, Congress could knock $50 billion off the deficit in 2002, about a third of its projected level. Over 10 years, the adjustment could reduce deficits by $500 billion -- without forcing a single vote on spending cuts or tax hikes.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, for one, is eager to see changes made in the index, for good reason. What the commission has done is produce a plausible estimate. Congress can take the number and run -- but only if it insulates the poor from an adjustment that is based on smart guesses but not precise knowledge. Another reason for caution is that the economists included on the commission were known beforehand to favor a downward adjustment of the Consumer Price Index. For example, their report overlooks ways in which the Government's calculation could produce the opposite error of underestimating inflation. 
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which has a reputation for technical competence and political independence, calculates the monthly Consumer Price Index by estimating the cost of a fixed bundle of consumer goods. The measure is used to adjust Social Security benefits, pension benefits and many other Federal outlays to offset the impact of inflation. The index is also used to adjust income tax brackets so that taxpayers are not forced to pay higher rates merely because their income kept pace with prices. A one-percentage-point reduction in the index would cost the typical Social Security recipient about $100 next year and raise taxes by about the same amount for a family earning $50,000.
The commission says that what the bureau should be measuring is how much more income a family needs to maintain its standard of living in the face of higher prices. It points out that the bureau's present calculations exaggerate inflation in three ways. First, by measuring how much money consumers need to buy a fixed basket of goods, the calculation takes inadequate account of the fact that consumers offset some of the impact of higher prices by switching to lower-priced goods.
Second, the bureau's calculation underestimates the extent to which prices rise because goods are qualitatively better. A computer that does twice the work for twice the price does not truly add to the cost of living. Finally, the bureau's calculation underestimates the benefit of new products and the role played by discount retailers.
These arguments are well founded. Indeed, the Statistics Bureau itself has recognized the problems for decades and struggled to find solutions. The errors persist in part because they are fiendishly difficult to quantify. Besides, Congress refuses to give the bureau the money it needs to do its job correctly. The commission rightly calls on Congress to correct its self-defeating stinginess.
In short, the bureau is moving in the right direction, albeit slowly. The Consumer Price Index probably does exaggerate inflation, but it is not yet clear whether the commission's one-percentage-point figure is technically precise.
That suggests the following policy. No one wants to politicize the bureau's deliberations and procedures. So it should proceed quickly, but on its own, to adopt the fixes that both it and the commission desire. The fixes could in fact take years, even if pursued expeditiously.
In the meantime, Congress will come under intense pressure to cut programs to balance the budget. But rather than whacking public programs needlessly, Congress and the White House could jointly agree to use the commission's figures to adjust Federal spending and taxes by less than the bureau's measure of inflation. That is a good way to reduce the deficit and spread the pain across most of the population. But to protect the poor from a possible overcorrection, Congress would insulate Supplemental Security Income and other programs for the poor from the adjustment.
That way, Government statistics will not be tainted by politics and the budget will be adjusted over the next few years in ways that do the least harm to valued public programs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RETAILERS (67%); NEW PRODUCTS (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); INCOME TAX (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (51%); 

PERSON: DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



92 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Hurt By Strength In Economy

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The bond market was hurt yesterday by a report showing continued pockets of strength in the economy and by a Federal Reserve decision to refrain from coming to market to buy Treasury securities for its own account.
The 30-year bond declined 14/32 , to a price of 10115/32 . The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.39 percent, from 6.36 percent on Tuesday. 
 Yesterday, in its beige book report on regional economic conditions, the Fed said that the economy was continuing to slow, but with scattered labor market tightness, which alarms bond traders because it hints at possible future inflation. A report released yesterday by the Commerce Department, on housing completions, showed a seven-tenths of 1 percent decline in October from a month earlier.
The biggest factor in the market's mild drop, however, probably was the Fed's decision not to enter the market to buy securities to bolster reserves in the banking system, a move known as a coupon pass. Coupon passes generally raise prices because they provide a ready buyer for traders looking to sell bonds.
Anthony E. Spare, chief investment officer at Spare, Kaplan, Bischel & Associates, a money management firm based in San Francisco, said, "It looks as if the yield on the long bond is at the lower end of where we think it will be over the next six months."
Mr. Spare said that he had based that prediction on an expectation that the inflation rate would quicken despite a weakening economy. He said he saw inflation running at 3 to 4 percent, up from its recent range of between 2 and 3 percent, with the 30-year bond trading in a range of 6.25 to 7.25 percent.
Because of that, he said, and given the current yield of about 6.40 percent, "if you're a trader, you sell, but if you're an investor and looking ahead three years, these rates are attractive."
Matthew F. Alexy, chief market strategist at CS First Boston, said he thought that the market had had a bit of trouble absorbing the high volume of corporate bond issues recently. Still, he said, the lack of a Fed coupon pass was perhaps the greatest factor in the market's softness, as traders generally wait for more clear signals on the economy than the reports issued yesterday.
"We had a beige book close to expectations, and housing completions were no big deal," he said. Furthermore, he added, currency trading, from which traders in the market for bonds with long maturities have taken direction lately, was stable yesterday. With traders waiting for a catalyst, tomorrow's report on unemployment in November should be significant.
Mr. Alexy said the market consensus was for the addition of about 175,000 jobs to payrolls.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said that though the number of jobs added to payrolls had not been the most accurate guide this year to determining the monetary policy actions of the Federal Reserve, the statistic was still being closely watched in the financial markets. "Indeed, the market still considers the payroll figure the best single monthly indication of economic health," Mr. Fine said, "and in many ways it is, so long as one realizes that the payroll statistic is a lagging indicator at cyclical turning points" for the economy.
An addition of 175,000 jobs in November, he said, would still reflect a healthy economy, although one that is clearly slowing from the strong growth seen earlier this year.
The Treasury auctions $19.25 billion in 52-week bills today; yesterday, the rate was 5.10 percent.

GRAPHIC: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since Aug. 1996. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: SPARE KAPLAN BISCHEL & ASSOCIATES (68%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); INFLATION (89%); HOUSING COMPLETIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CURRENCIES (63%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



93 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Embarrassed, France Halts Thomson Sale

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The French Government, bowing to a wave of Gallic pride touched off by its attempt to sell Thomson S.A., the heavily indebted, state-owned electronics company, to French and South Korean investors, temporarily suspended the entire plan today.
The Government had decided in October to keep most of the military-related part of Thomson in French hands by selling it to the Lagardere Group, which arranged for the unprofitable consumer division, Thomson Multimedia, to go to the Daewoo Electronics Company of South Korea. The sales had been arranged for the symbolic price of one franc each -- about 20 cents -- but the Government was first to inject more than $2 billion, in effect swallowing most of the company's debt. 
 Today, Finance Minister Jean Arthuis said an independent privatization commission had withheld approval of the sale because of reservations about transferring advanced technology to a foreign country. "Consequently, the Government has decided to suspend the privatization process under way," the Finance Ministry said.
Lagardere said it would keep trying. "The acquisition of Thomson remains a strategic objective for us," the company said in a statement. Daewoo's chairman, Soon Hoon Bae, said he was "shocked and scandalized" by the suspension.
The French Government promised that despite the setback, Thomson would eventually be privatized. But opposition leaders said they hoped that the delay would lead to scrapping of the plan.
Alcatel Alsthom S.A., the bidder that most French analysts had expected to get Government approval to buy Thomson in the first place, said a week ago that it would be interested in trying again.
The privatization was part of President Jacques Chirac's ambitious plan to reorganize and reduce the French military-industrial complex to make it capable of surviving competition with American companies in the changed strategic realities at the end of the century.
But the terms of the sale to Lagardere had set off a storm of protest by the opposition Socialist Party and labor unions, who denounced the idea of giving away part of the national patrimony in the name of market efficiency -- and to foreigners, to boot.
Prime Minister Alain Juppe only intensified the fury by pointing out that the company, long the pride of French high-technology industry, was worth not even a franc because it had 14 billion francs, about $2.7 billion, of debt.
The privatization plan had faced other hurdles, including a European Union review of the appropriateness of pumping $2.11 billion of French Government funds into Thomson before the sale.
But the main thing against it was the national mood in France, where "globalization" and "market efficiency" are becoming dirty words as Government austerity policies aimed at making France more fit for international competition have helped keep unemployment at 12.6 percent of the labor force.
And even though both those concepts have more often been associated in France with Anglo-Saxons than with Asians, there was more than a hint of anti-Asian sentiment in some of the protests.
Objectors were unimpressed by Daewoo's pledges to create 10,000 jobs in France by the year 2000, twice Thomson Multimedia's current labor force.
The Government's gall in setting a symbolic one-franc price for the company was an irritant, enabling opponents to argue that the conservative leadership was holding a fire sale. "This is contemptuous of its employees, who have constructed a magnificent enterprise," said Laurent Fabius, a former Prime Minister and member of the Socialist Party, which was in power when Thomson was nationalized.
But there was also a note of French nationalism in his objections. The privatization was a "catastrophe," he said, "on the strategic industrial level, on the social level and on the level of the defense of the patrimony of all French people."
Jean-Luc Lagardere, who heads the Lagardere Group, complained to the daily Le Figaro last month: "The debate over Thomson Multimedia has taken an unacceptable turn. First of all, it has a racist color seen by the entire world."
But as with Mr. Juppe's statements, his argument that Lagardere and Daewoo would invest more than $5 billion in Thomson did not still the protests.
In choosing Lagardere, which makes the Matra missiles and has a big military electronics division, to take over Thomson-CSF, the military-electronics subsidiary, the French Government had hoped to create one French company that could stand up in the global market to American competition in its field. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TCH (PAR) (96%); MMB (PAR) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (96%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3671 ELECTRON TUBES (96%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (96%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (84%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (84%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: THOMSON SA TECHNICOLOR SA (96%); LAGARDERE SCA (84%); DAEWOO ELECTRONICS CO LTD (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: THOMSON SA

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES ELECTRONICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); APPROVALS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); POLITICS (70%); LABOR FORCE (64%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES) JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



94 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: There Are Good Reasons For a Wedding At the Airport

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
The reasons Delta Air Lines and Continental Airlines, which are discussing a possible merger, might make a good fit are readily apparent. Their route networks, for example, would mesh well.
What is perhaps less clear is why, when the United States airline industry is more stable and profitable than it has been since deregulation in 1978, these carriers are pondering a merger in the first place. 
 There are several reasons, including the fact that American Airlines and British Airways are trying to win government approvals for a broad marketing alliance. Other United States airlines are fighting hard to block the link because of the competitive threat it represents and are inevitably considering their options for responding if the deal goes through.
Although the talks were instigated by Continental, Delta may see a deal as a way to expand its international route network. Continental's Newark hub would also give Delta more passengers for its international business, and that, industry analysts say, is where the real potential for growth in revenue and profit lies.
"The future is international for U.S. airlines because the domestic industry is way too competitive," said Clifford Winston, an economist at the Brookings Institution.
There is also a widely held belief in the industry that another round of consolidation is inevitable in such a capital-intensive business. After all, a similar shrinking of the field of players has happened -- and continues -- in the railroad and trucking industries. And many airline industry experts question whether the United States really needs all the airlines it has now, or whether five or so, as opposed to the nine major ones operating now, would provide all the competition and service that travelers need.
A large acquisition has not occurred among the airlines in several years, though earlier rounds of consolidation have removed airlines like Republic, Western and National from lists of sizable carriers.
Adding pressure to any merger activity is the possibility that the next industry downturn or lasting surge in fuel prices might be devastating to second-tier carriers like Continental, USAir and Trans World Airlines. Finding merger partners now, when these carriers' stocks are high, might make the most sense.
There are also advantages in being the first pair of airlines to propose marriage in a new round of consolidation. They might, for example, get a better response from the Justice Department, whose job it is to be skeptical of the possible anti-competitive effects of such combinations. The second or third such proposals might be viewed more skeptically because their effect on concentrating the industry would be greater.
Finally, the major United States airlines are in many ways like students standing around at a high school dance, nervously eyeing each other for potential partners if others start dancing. Delta and Continental may be talking now for the simple reason that they want to be assured they will have a compatible partner once the dancing starts.
From a distance, it also seems reasonable to question whether David Bonderman, the Fort Worth-based investor who led a $450 million infusion into Continental to help bring it out of bankruptcy in 1993, is trying to find a buyer for the airline so that he can cash out his investment while Continental's stock is riding high. After all, Mr. Bonderman has long described himself as a midterm investor, suggesting that jet fuel has not made its way into his veins as it has with so many executives who cannot imagine working in another industry.
Speculation about Mr. Bonderman's role, however, may be overblown -- he owns less than 10 percent of Continental's shares, and if he wants to cash out, he does not need an acquisition to reap some rewards.
Nor, apparently, do a number of senior Continental executives, whose decision to sell large blocks of shares in recent weeks have left many industry observers puzzled in light of yesterday's revelations that the airline was in talks with Delta. Why, if the airline was moving toward a possible merger, would the executives sell stock that would have a good chance of appreciating quickly amid talk of such a deal?
There was no shortage of theories to explain their decision, though the best may be the simplest: perhaps they simply wanted to put some cash in the bank. Most of them still own, or stand to gain through stock options, big blocks of stock in Continental, whose B shares closed yesterday at $30.75, up $2.375; Delta closed at $75.50, up 50 cents.
Spokesmen for Continental and Delta declined to comment yesterday on the talks, which were confirmed on Tuesday by people with knowledge of the discussions.
For every reason why consolidation in the industry might be inevitable, there are at least two or three to argue against the likelihood or wisdom of such mergers. Combining fleets, unionized employees and other facets of two airlines has often rendered past mergers much less than the sum of their parts. Delta's acquisition of Pan Am in 1991, for example, is widely described as having slung an overweight albatross around Delta's neck. Members of pilots' unions are also generally wary about the effects of combining seniority lists from two merging airlines.
But the poor track record of mergers has not stopped airlines in the past, and it may not be enough to stop them this time, industry analysts said.
"This could very well be the start of the long-awaited consolidation in the industry," said Julius Maldutis, an airline analyst at Salomon Brothers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (73%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES AIRLINES (92%); MERGERS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); MARRIAGE (60%); TRUCKING (50%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



95 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Mistrust and Caution On Revising an Inflation Index

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Trying to determine whether it is politically realistic to use a proposed change in the way the Government measures inflation to help erase the deficit, Republicans and Democrats tried today to tease out assurances of bipartisan cooperation on an issue that holds clear perils for both sides.
But although Clinton Administration officials and Republican leaders in Congress held out hope of progress, their mutually mistrustful messages to each other were almost the same: you go first. 
 The maneuvering came as a commission appointed by Congress formally reported today that the Government's most widely used gauge of inflation, the Consumer Price Index, would overstate increases in the cost of living by 1.1 percentage points annually in coming years, and that the overstatement had been even higher in past years.
The commission said the overstatement was costing the Government billions of dollars a year by resulting in higher-than-justified increases in payments to recipients of Social Security and other benefit programs that use the index to calculate changes in the cost of living.
If the Government were to adopt the recommendations to revise the index, it would lead to smaller increases in Social Security payments than currently projected and to higher tax bills for many individuals. It would also go a long way toward eliminating the deficit by the target date of 2002 agreed on by the Administration and Congress. And it would help deal with a looming crisis in the Social Security program as the baby-boom generation begins retiring over the next few decades.
Senator William V. Roth Jr., Republican of Delaware, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said he would "like to see movement this year" on incorporating the commission's findings into the budget process. Mr. Roth said his committee would hold hearings on the matter next year, but he suggested that the White House would have to embrace the proposals publicly before Republicans would do the same.
"Clearly this reform will not be successful without President Clinton's leadership," he said.
But Administration officials said that as a practical matter they would not have time to incorporate any change in cost-of-living projections in the budget proposal to be presented to Congress early next year.
Republican leaders made it clear that their budget proposal, to be released after the President's, would not adopt the change in the inflation calculations if the White House version had not.
The reactions today from various interest groups suggested how perilous adopting a change could be. "An arbitrary reduction in the index would undo decades of progress and result in millions of senior citizens falling below the poverty line," said John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
On Capitol Hill, there was some talk from both sides of the aisle that the issue was not totally untouchable. Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, said that a bipartisan, compromise budget proposal he offered last year along with Senator John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, included a provision to reduce cost-of-living increases by half a percentage point, and that it won support from 24 Democrats and 22 Republicans. "A lot of people have crossed that bridge once," Mr. Breaux said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; COST OF LIVING INFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POOR POPULATION (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



96 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 19; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Carol H. Meyer, 72, an Author And Professor of Social Work

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Carol H. Meyer, an author and a professor of social work at Columbia University for more than 30 years, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 72 and also had a home in Water Mill, L.I.
The cause was cancer, her sister Maxine Greene said. 
 Dr. Meyer's work was widely published in professional journals on child welfare casework, psychiatric and family practice, foster care, women and social work. She focused on what she called the eco-systems perspective, which calls for considering a range of factors in a person's life when assessing a social service or treatment plan, including behavior, environment, economics and personal and family history, said Ronald A. Feldman, dean of the Columbia School of Social Work.
The system now constitutes the foundation of contemporary social work, he said.
She was the author of five books, including "Assessment in Social Work Practice" (Columbia University Press, 1993), "Clinical Social Work in the Eco-Systems Perspective" (Columbia Press, 1983) and "Social Work Practice: A Response to the Urban Crisis" (The Free Press, 1970).
She also was editor in chief of Affilia: Journal of Women in Social Work, and was on the educational board of the British Journal of Social Work and on the board of the Council on Social Work Education, the national accrediting body for professional social work education.
Dr. Meyer had taught clinical and advanced social work practice at Columbia since 1962.
She previously taught at the New York University School of Social Work and the Smith College School of Social Work, and she was an assistant to the New York City Welfare Commissioner, responsible for caseworker training, from 1959 to 1962.
She was a native of Brooklyn, and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Pittsburgh in 1946 and a master's degree in social work from the New York School of Social Work, the predecessor of the Columbia School of Social Work, in 1949.
In 1957, she received the first doctorate in casework awarded by the Columbia School of Social Work.
In addition to Dr. Greene, of Manhattan, she is survived by another sister, Jeanne Shinefield of Hackensack, N.J., and Key Biscayne, Fla., and a brother, Joseph Meyer of Stuart, Fla.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (69%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); WRITERS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); ACCREDITATION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); FAMILY LAW (76%); FAMILY (76%); CANCER (72%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); 

PERSON: MEYER, CAROL H (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



97 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: From a Lawmakers' Group, An Old Fund-Raising Lesson

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The National Foundation for Women Legislators has a membership of fast-rising female politicians and a high-minded mission: "to provide strategic resources for women to be strong and effective state legislators."
What it never had was money, until the organization hit on a sure-fire fund-raising technique. For $2,500 and up -- sometimes way up -- the foundation sells corporations and interest groups the right to lobby its membership. 
 It is a tactic that lifts eyebrows in Washington's political subculture, where money and influence are usually exchanged more discreetly. But no one who attended the foundation's annual convention, held in mid-November in Las Vegas, Nev., would argue that it does not work.
Take one of the convention's many presentations on legislative issues. Entitled "United States Gold: Economically Important, Technologically Vital and Environmentally Responsible," it was conducted by representatives of three gold-mining companies and the industry's trade association, The Gold Institute. Five leading slot-machine makers and lottery operators staged another workshop, "Gaming: The Changing Face in America."
A Kansas pork producer participated in a round table on agricultural issues. A top engineer at the American Automobile Manufacturers Association spoke on clean-air legislation. The senior lawyer at the General Motors Corporation gave a luncheon address on the need to overhaul the standards for lawsuits involving personal injuries and defective products.
In all, said the foundation's president, Robin Read, more than 40 business or interest groups picked up much of the cost of the Las Vegas meeting, either by buying the right to give speeches and conduct seminars or by appearing without charge.
The paid seminars (among others, $2,500 to join a round table with state legislators, $15,000 to conduct an issues workshop, $20,000 to sponsor a board meeting and $30,000 for a lunchtime speech) can be educational, say some who have attended them. Still, the foundation's printed solicitation to interest groups minced no words about their purpose.
"This will be the first meeting of the newly elected women lawmakers, who legislate on a variety of issues that affect your bottom line," it stated. "Women legislators are a critical target audience because of the credibility they engender in their statehouses. The annual conference is your opportunity to show your support for women state legislators and to tell your organization's side of the story on the top legislative issues of the day."
It is hardly unheard of for associations to charge companies that want to sell their goods and services -- or for that matter, their points of view -- at an annual meeting. But like the corporate-sponsored junkets and skiing vacations that members of Congress have sworn off, such open exchanges of money for influence are increasingly frowned on.
The principal association of elected state officials, the National Conference of State Legislatures, also solicits donations from corporations, unions and interest groups, said Karl Kurtz, the group's director of state services. But the conference does not offer access or influence in exchange for cash, Mr. Kurtz said, and its conventions and seminars are prepared without regard to donations.
Lobbying or not, Ms. Read makes no apologies for the arrangement between business interests and her foundation.
"If we didn't invite them to tell their story, I don't know how the organization would move forward," she said in an interview last week. "We're struggling. There is no endowment. There are no public monies."
Ms. Read said that when she became president about five years ago, the foundation was all but broke, drawing but a handful of legislators to its meetings. Since then, she said, its budget has grown by some $30,000 a year on average, and the Las Vegas convention drew 500 people.
She said corporate and interest-group money also had allowed the foundation to offer other programs, including summer schools on political leadership and campaign techniques and a yearly "networking day" in Washington.
Not everyone is as appreciative of corporate help. One foundation member, State Senator Dorothy Rupert of Boulder, Colo., said in an interview that she almost skipped the convention this year because of the pronounced corporate tilt of recent sessions.
"There have been concerns in the last year, and I have expressed them to the leadership, about the balance," Ms. Rupert, a Democrat, said. "We have people who can pay the money coming in and presenting the corporate side, but there may not be voices expressed for, say, the noncorporate side, for citizens."
Debra Knopman, an official of the Progressive Foundation, who spoke at one of the convention seminars, said: "They essentially farmed out their convention to corporations. They had a very receptive audience there. There wasn't even a tip of the hat to balancing it out."
Ms. Read disputes that, noting that the Las Vegas session included a discussion among legislators about air pollution and would have included a talk on the social implications of state-sponsored gambling, had the speaker not backed out.
In fact, many speakers at the meeting, including Ms. Allen and Ms. Knopman, were unpaid and had no corporate or trade-group ties. In those sessions that are sponsored by businesses or interest groups, Ms. Read said, "we always try to balance it out" with speakers who offer a contrasting opinion.
"The corporations know we're going to try to bring in opposite views," she said. But as the Las Vegas meeting showed, opponents frequently cannot or will not show up.
The foundation, Ms. Read said, was even willing to waive the fees to bring a variety of views to its seminars. And the meeting did feature scores of lecturers, mostly state lawmakers, who paid nothing and frequently had no overt axes to grind.
Not everyone got that message though. Gina Solomon, a lawyer at the San Francisco offices of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said she rejected the foundation's offer to sell her group a $30,000 speech.
"This was a thinly veiled way of paying for access to these policymakers," Ms. Solomon said in a telephone interview. "I can see why people are disillusioned about politics."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GMP (PAR) (67%); GMB (BRU) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR WOMEN LEGISLATORS MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (67%); FOUNDATION FOR WOMEN (93%); FOUNDATION FOR WOMEN (93%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR WOMEN LEGISLATORS FOUNDATION FOR WOMEN (93%); FOUNDATION FOR WOMEN (93%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); NEVADA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; WOMEN; FINANCES; CORPORATIONS; FINANCES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); WOMEN (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); SKIING (70%); GOLD MINING (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES MFG (67%); PORK (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (65%); LITIGATION (65%); PERSONAL INJURY (64%); MINES & MINING (53%); LOTTERIES (52%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; READ, ROBIN

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



98 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Altered Economics In Connecticut Lead To A-Plant Closing

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Faced with high operating costs and rising competition from other electricity sources, the owners of a Connecticut nuclear power plant with one of the best longterm performance records in the nuclear industry decided yesterday to shut it down permanently.
The decision to close the Connecticut Yankee plant, in Haddam Neck on the Connecticut River about 20 miles southeast of Middletown, could signal that similar plants, including New York's Indian Point 3, may also be imperiled by changing economics and the availability of abundant power from non-nuclear sources, power industry experts said. Except for Shoreham on Long Island, which was never fully operational, Connecticut Yankee would be the first commercial plant in Connecticut, New York or New Jersey to close in 22 years. 
 Although it is the oldest active commercial nuclear plant in the United States, Connecticut Yankee generated power more than 71 percent of the time in its 28 years of service, putting it in a performance category with many plants half its age.
But lately, Federal nuclear inspectors had identified a spate of safety problems at the plant and three others in Connecticut -- Millstone 1, 2 and 3 -- run by its primary owner, Northeast Utilities.
Connecticut Yankee was taken out of service in July because of safety problems noted by the Federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission. More problems cropped up in late summer, including an incident over the Labor Day weekend in which cooling water in the reactor dropped four feet, nearly causing the fuel to overheat. The plant will never generate power again.
All three Millstone reactors remain temporarily shut down.
But safety issues did not weigh in the decision to close the reactor, Bruce D. Kenyon, president of Northeast's nuclear division, said yesterday. "It's all about economics," Mr. Kenyon said. "We looked at the value of the plant to our customers over its remaining lifetime and concluded that the right economic choice was to leave the unit shut down."
In October, an economic analysis by Northeast Utilities and seven other New England utilities that share power from the plant showed that about $100 million could be saved by dismantling it and buying power from sources outside the state. Connecticut customers can expect a drop in rates, company officials said, although the amount is not yet clear.
Weighing against the plant were rising operating costs and the economics of scale, with the 582-megawatt reactor only about 60 percent as powerful as more modern reactors but requiring 350 workers to monitor its complicated systems, company officials said. It also provided only a small portion of the total electricity supplied by each of its eight owners -- only 4 percent of the power sold by Northeast Utilities.
The biggest factor in the decision was simply that adequate power for all the utilities could be found from non-nuclear sources for at least the next six to eight years, Anthony J. Castagno, a spokesman for Northeast Utilities, said. With only 10 years left on its license, the plant simply could not compete, he said.
The next step will be the slow decommissioning of the plant and mothballing of its fuel until the Federal Government decides on a permanent disposal site, officials at Northeast Utilities said.
The process could take seven years and cost more than $400 million, Mr. Castagno said. The costs have already been factored into the savings projected for closing the plant, he said. Everything will be dismantled except the storage area for the hazardous nuclear fuel. Some of the 350 workers will be shifted to other jobs with the utilities that own the plant, with others offered severance packages, he said.
Northeast Utilities has just begun a similar economic study to determine the future of Millstone 1, the oldest reactor at its complex in Waterford. But Mr. Kenyon said the 25-year-old plant, which is younger, larger and a more critical part of the company's generating capacity, would likely remain in operation.
He said the decision to close Connecticut Yankee was unlikely to make waves in the industry as a whole because specific factors applied there. "Every plant has its own economics; every utility has its own economics," he said.
But some critics of the nuclear power industry whose main concern is environmental risks said they were certain that the conditions that led to the closing of Connecticut Yankee would lead other utilities to close faltering plants as well.
Ashok Gupta, an economist and energy expert at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private environmental group, said the trend toward deregulation of utilities -- by allowing power to flow from cheap sources to hungry markets like the Northeast -- would make it harder for utilities to keep nuclear plants going by simply saddling consumers with the added costs.
Now, he said, it is investors in utilities who will absorb any extra costs, and they are much less forgiving of bad choices. "They will govern these investments more in the future," he said.
But some people in the nuclear industry insisted that nuclear plants would remain a bulwark of the American power grid into the next century. Over all, electricity bought wholesale from other sources is still more costly than power from a well-run nuclear plant, said Steven W. Unglesbee, a spokesman for the Nuclear Energy Institute, an industry group in Washington. "Our production costs have dropped 34 percent in the last decade and we expect to improve further," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Making Do Without Nuclear Power"
The owners of the Connecticut Yankee nuclear plant - shut down since July for safety reasons - have decided to close it permanently. Connecticut's three other reactors are also out of service. Chart shows where the state will get its power this Winter, expressed in megawatts. (Source: Northeast Utilities) (pg. B14)
 
Graph: "Comparing the Costs"
Rising costs were a factor in the decision to close Connecticut Yankee. Graph shows how its operating, maintenance and fuel costs compare with those of power plants nationawide. Figures are the five-year averages, 1990-94, expressed in dollars per megawatt-hour. (Source: Utility Data Institute) (pg. B14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NU (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST UTILITIES NORTHEAST UTILITIES (85%); ASHTEAD PLANT HIRE CO LTD (58%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST UTILITIES NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT; CONNECTICUT YANKEE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (97%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (96%); POWER PLANTS (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); US LABOR DAY (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



99 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani and Council Hit an Angry Impasse on Superstores

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY 

 BODY:
Negotiations between the Giuliani administration and the City Council on a plan to allow warehouse-style stores to open in manufacturing areas broke down amid bitter recriminations last night, raising the possibility that the plan might be delayed for months.
Two Council leaders said they believed that yesterday's surprise impasse effectively killed the plan for the year, forcing the lengthy approval process to begin from scratch. But administration officials said they hoped that an agreement could still be reached in the next two weeks. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is scheduled to meet today with Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the Council, to discuss the issue. 
 Administration and Council officials had spent the last three days in intense negotiations trying to reach a compromise that would allow more superstores in the city without any review by the public or the City Council while still leaving the Council with control over some potential large-scale developments.
Although the Mayor has promoted the plan as a way to bring down prices that consumers pay for a wide range of products, the proposal has drawn harsh criticism in some neighborhoods for its potential to harm smaller merchants. And City Council members have bristled over the provision that would allow the superstores to be built without their consent.
Against that tense background, the breakdown in the talks occurred over a narrower issue. In the final hours of discussions, Giuliani officials accused the Council of adding new restrictions to stores that are now unregulated. They said that that aspect of the plan would have to be negotiated separately next year. But Council leaders said that those restrictions had been discussed all along and that they were shocked that the administration would take them off the table just as negotiations were coming to an end.
Council leaders then urged Mr. Giuliani to withdraw his proposal, and when he refused, the members of two important Council committees voted unanimously to reject the plan. Council leaders accused the administration of not bargaining in good faith.
Using the German word for superman, Councilman Sheldon S. Leffler, Democrat of Queens, called the Mayor an "Ubermensch" who clearly was not interested in the concerns of residents. Administration officials responded angrily, saying the Council had deliberately torpedoed the talks because they were beholden to small-store owners who have been the loudest opponents of the plan.
Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission, who was appointed by the Mayor, said the Council was citing a phony issue to kill the superstore plan.
"This was simply an excuse by the Council to try to take care of the special interests who have used the current rules to try to block stores, supermarkets and clothing stores from coming into the city," he said after the vote.
"They are trying to come up with a fig leaf to cover a blatant attempt to keep New York consumers from having convenience and cheap prices."
But June M. Eisland, chairwoman of the Council's Land Use Committee, said the Council negotiators sincerely believed they were close to a deal when the administration suddenly rejected the plan.
"I am a very surprised person," Ms. Eisland said. "It is absolutely untrue; there was no design whatsoever by the Council to blow up the process. Until just two days ago, it was a positive process we thought would come to a successful conclusion."
Walter L. McCaffrey, chairman of the Council's subcommittee on zoning and franchises, said that given the administration's position on changes that would affect currently unregulated stores, he did not believe that the Mayor's proposal could possibly be approved by the end of the year. Instead, he urged the administration to devise a new proposal jointly with Council officials.
"The Mayor's plan is a vessel that cannot carry the compromise that we clearly were headed toward," Mr. McCaffrey said. "So a new vessel has to be created, and we should do that quickly and we should not be pointing fingers."
The Mayor's proposal would allow an estimated 57 superstores to open along wide streets in manufacturing areas and would permit stores as large as 200,000 square feet.
During negotiations, Council officials suggested restricting the big stores to areas within five blocks of a highway or major thoroughfare as a way of protecting residential streets.
Their plan would also have limited stores to a maximum of 125,000 square feet and would have required public hearings on traffic plans. Council officials estimated that their proposal would have reduced the number of new stores to about 25.
Giuliani officials countered by offering to lower the size limit on stores to 140,000 square feet and by trying to find ways to restore about 12 of their original sites to the Council's plan.
Also, Fran Reiter, Deputy Mayor for Economic Development, said that the Council's offer would have cut the number of possible sites by 70 percent. "That would be a sham," she said. "And I'd rather see it go down than have a sham out there."
Mr. Leffler said he was uncomfortable with the Mayor's proposal and even with the Council's suggestions because he believed that none of the plans allowed for sufficient community review and approval.
"But if you're a zealot, a former prosecutor, an Ubermensch, you may not feel that you need to listen to what ordinary citizens in this city want to have to say," he said, referring to Mr. Giuliani. "But allowing some meaningful community input is the American way."
Mr. Leffler's comments drew surprised looks from some of his colleagues and prompted an angry response from Ms. Reiter.
"That is an inflammatory, disgusting remark," she said. "What's really disgusting about it is that the only ones who are listening to the masses of people of New York is this administration. They're listening to the special interests in this city that have kept good, decent-quality food at a reasonable price and other goods from the people of this city."
The turning point in negotiations came when administration officials said that some of the Council's proposed changes could apply to supermarkets and discount retailers but could not be imposed on categories of stores that are now exempt from any restrictions without going back to the City Planning Commission for approval.
Those categories include hardware stores like Home Depot and toy stores like Toys "R" Us that have been allowed to open in industrial areas because they did not exist when the existing law was written in 1974 and therefore were not explicitly prohibited.
Council members refused to approve a deal based on the administration's promise that the exempted stores would eventually be brought under the negotiated restrictions. They were being asked, in essence, to trust the administration to impose the new restrictions after approving the current plan.
"Mama didn't raise any fools on this side of the table," Mr. McCaffrey said.
But Ms. Reiter said, "You can't take something that was previously unregulated and now regulate it even more than what the Planning Commission did." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ZONING CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BAD FAITH (79%); ZONING (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); 

PERSON: TOY, VIVIAN S; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



100 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Hard Part: Fixing the Errant Price Index

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
A lot of Americans, according to the commission appointed by Congress to examine how the Government measures inflation, have been getting away with murder for decades. They have been paying less in taxes and receiving more in benefits than Congress ever intended. The catch, the panel of experts headed by Michael J. Boskin, a Stanford economist who was President George Bush's chief economic adviser, is that we have seen the enemy and it is almost all of us.
Every middle- and upper-income taxpayer has received unintended tax cuts, paying more at the 15 percent rate and less at 28 percent or higher because tax brackets have been overadjusted for inflation. What's more, tens of millions of Government beneficiaries -- from Social Security recipients to Civil Service retirees -- have gotten fatter monthly checks because the Consumer Price Index has overstated changes in the cost of living. 
 That puts Washington in a very awkward position, indeed.
On the one hand, the commission is convinced it has bullet-proofed its report from charges of sloppiness or ideological zeal. "The estimated bias of 1.1 percentage points annually should not be controversial because we've taken every opportunity to err on the conservative side," said Robert J. Gordon, chairman of the economics department at Northwestern University and one of the five members of the panel.
On the other, in seeking to change the widespread practice of inflation indexing, it is asking Congress to gore every ox in sight. "Every politician wants the adjustment to be an immaculate conception," said Robert D. Reischauer, former director of the Congressional Budget Office. "They don't want their fingerprints on it."
The flaws of the Consumer Price Index as a measure of the cost of living are well understood, at least in conceptual terms. For one, the quantities of goods and services making up the index's "market basket" are infrequently changed. This creates "substitution bias," jargon for the failure to account for the fact that when the price of one good goes up (say, beef), consumers can offset part of the negative impact on their standard of living by purchasing substitutes (say, chicken).
By the same token, the infrequent adjustment of the market basket also fails to take account of one of the biggest built-in errors. The long delay in adding new products means that the Government rarely captures the steep fall in price that typically occurs shortly after a new product is introduced. A videocassette recorder, which cost $1,000 when it was introduced, sold for less than $300 when it finally appeared in the official market basket. Hence the 70 percent decline never showed up in the Consumer Price Index.
The list goes on. There's "formula" bias, the tendency to overestimate price changes in the process of aggregating tens of thousands of good and services into a few dozen categories. And "outlet" bias, the failure to fully account for both the convenience and savings associated with the shift to retailing through catalogues and discount superstores.
Last but hardly least, there's "quality" bias, the failure to account fully for innovation. Consider the Sears catalogue problem that has confounded generations of inmates in Econ. 101. Everyone knows that prices were higher in 1981 than in 1901, right? Yet it is a safe bet that everyone lacking a taste for antique bicycles would rather spend $1,000 on items from the 1981 catalogue than from the 1901 edition. And this implies that quality improvements -- over a long period -- more than offset price changes.
"We're now in a position to do a respectable job at measuring changes in the cost of living," said Dale W. Jorgenson, a Harvard economist who served on the commission. All told, he and his colleagues reckon the bias in the Consumer Price Index is running from eight-tenths of a percentage point to 1.6 percentage point annually.
The 1.1 percentage point estimate, which is closer to the low end of the range, may not seem like a large number. But little budget acorns have a way of growing into trees that cast mighty expensive shadows.
The Boskin Commission estimates that continuing with the status quo will leave the Government with a deficit $202 billion higher in 2008 than if inflation is measured more accurately. All told, the cumulative impact on the budget through 2008 runs to $1.066 trillion. And not surprisingly, policy makers ranging from the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, to the Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee, John R. Kasich of Ohio, are eyeing a change in indexing as the path of least resistance to a balanced budget.
Least resistance, perhaps. Low resistance, hardly. "I don't think the proposal has political legs," said Mr. Reischauer, who is now at the Brookings Institution. For one thing, he notes, many of the adjustments would require Congressional action, since roughly two-thirds of the 1.1 percentage points would be impossible for the Bureau of Labor Statistics to change administratively. And while the Boskin numbers look squeaky-clean to most economists, Mr. Reischauer argues that they are "easy to demagogue."
Consider, for example, the argument that some groups would be unfairly hit by the adjustments because the particular goods and services they buy are more vulnerable to inflation. Retirees, for example, can point to research from the early 1990's by the Labor Department suggesting that higher medical costs hit them especially hard.
The panel directly addressed this assertion, concluding that older people were no more vulnerable to inflation than the population at large. Not only has the rise in the cost of health care moderated, Mr. Gordon, the panel member, argued, but medicine is also especially subject to rapid, unmeasured quality improvements.
Such logic has a way of getting lost in debates over Government retirement benefits. Remember Congress's catastrophic foray into adding catastrophic coverage to Medicare? Less than a year after the legislation was approved with the support of the American Association of Retired Persons, affluent retirees who discovered they would have to pay part of the cost created such a backlash that the law was repealed.
Still, the Boskin Commission recommendations may acquire a political life of their own. Some day, some way, the reasoning goes, Washington will be forced to cope with rising entitlement costs. And there is no alternative more enticing than a fix in the cost-of-living adjustment.
"The budget crisis," Mr. Jorgenson concluded, "might well disappear if the cost of living were measured properly."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; COST OF LIVING APPOINTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (85%); TAX LAW (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



101 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: Crew Wants National Standards To Be Used in New York Schools

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew proposed yesterday that New York City adopt national education standards that would change what schoolchildren are expected to learn and how their achievements would be measured.
If the plan is approved by the Board of Education, New York would be the largest district to embrace the standards, which were developed by national panels over the last few years for English, math and science. The various proposals have been drawn together and revamped for classroom use by New Standards, a privately financed educational organization in Washington. 
 The standards, which would be phased in over the next three years, would concentrate on raising students' level of achievement, teaching academic skills that can be applied in real life, and encouraging logic, analysis and expression rather than multiple-choice questions.
The plan includes benchmark achievement tests in the fourth, eighth and 10th grades in math, English, science and "applied learning," which consists of using skills like writing and arithmetic in exercises relevant to the business world.
The standards would also mean changes in what is taught in the classroom in all grades, to make sure that instruction is consistent within schools and local districts and that children learn what is asked.
Efforts by previous chancellors to impose new curriculums have often encountered obstacles, including the city's sometimes fractious system of 32 local school districts. But Dr. Crew's proposal comes as state officials are pressing for higher standards statewide, and its inclusion of new achievement tests could also increase the pressure on schools to adhere to the new standards.
For example, the standards for English in each grade require that each student read 25 books a year, either at home or as part of class work, and write summaries of them in a logbook. There are sample reading lists -- the high school list, for example, includes "The House on Mango Street" by Sandra Cisneros and "To Kill a Mockingbird" by Harper Lee -- but teachers can substitute books or even magazines they consider appropriate.
English exercises emphasize writing and creativity, often relating works to real-life circumstances.
In math, tests would involve very few multiple-choice questions. The emphasis would be on problem solving using examples drawn from actual situations. For example, a sample math problem listed in the guidelines for eighth graders asks students to "analyze a state lottery game to see how many number combinations there are and how many weeks, months or years it will take for all of them to be drawn."
In discussing the plan yesterday, Dr. Crew said, "I am proposing adoption of the standards developed by the New Standards project because they are the best available national standards, because teachers can use them, because they are based on common sense as well as academic excellence, and because they are ready now."
National standards are a revolutionary departure for American education, which has historically stressed local control, and the phrase itself has become an emotionally charged one that raises the hackles of politicians and school officials.
Indeed, officials with New Standards, the Washington organization that has developed the standards Dr. Crew is hoping to adopt, were careful to say that their programs were not really "national" standards because they were developed with several years of input from states and cities, including New York City, and they were designed to be adjusted and adapted by local school districts.
Across the country a handful of cities, including San Diego, Pittsburgh, Fort Worth, and Rochester and White Plains in New York, have recently come up with their own sets of standards, borrowing many ideas from the New Standards program. But New York City is the first school district to propose to adopt the New Standards program outright, according to Kate Nolan, a senior associate in the office of state and local relations for New Standards. Dr. Crew, while saying that the New Standards program would be tailored for New York City's large and diverse school population, did not shrink from calling them national standards.
"Our students should not have to wait while we re-create the wheel," Dr. Crew said. "They should be taught to aim for success, and we need a system that can deliver it."
Dr. Crew said the standards were necessary because there is currently no consistency in what is taught in New York City's 1,100 schools. Two elementary schools in the same district may have entirely different curricula, making it difficult for children when they get to middle school. Even classes in the same grade in one school may be learning lessons so different that the children are not at the same level when they enter the next grade. Systemwide, about 70 percent of students are below grade level in math or reading.
Board of Education officials said the proposed new standards were unprecedented in their breadth, rigor and comprehensive approach.
Dr. Crew's proposal dovetails with changes planned by the State Education Commissioner, Richard P. Mills, and the State Board of Regents. In April, the Regents, pressed by Mr. Mills, voted to require every public school student in the state to pass Regents examinations to earn a high school diploma. Mr. Mills also plans to revise the Regents exams, making them more rigorous, a move that would prompt curriculum changes.
Mr. Mills, who until recently was on the board of New Standards, which is a consortium of 14 states and 7 city school districts, including New York City, and is financed by grants from major foundations, said that Dr. Crew's plan would be consistent with the statewide changes and the new Regents tests.
"This is all part of a coherent strategy," Mr. Mills said. He said the strategy included several recent developments, including proposals now before the Legislature to increase the Chancellor's control of local New York City districts, and threats by Mr. Mills to close failing city schools if they do not improve.
"State authorities are trying to do what they can and city authorities are trying to do what they can," Mr. Mills said. "Everyone knows that the expectations are now high and the clock is ticking."
The city proposals are subject to Board of Education approval.
Yesterday, after Dr. Crew made a brief presentation to the board, Carol Gresser, a board member, called the proposal "fascinating" and asked for a more thorough briefing later.
Sandra E. Lerner, another board member, cautioned that the higher standards might initially mean students would have lower scores on the tougher tests. "We have to think in terms of incremental achievement," she said.
Indeed, the new achievement tests are a key element. "What you test has an awful lot to do with what teachers teach," said Robert Tobias, director of assessment and accountability for the school board. "Once you do that testing, it's going to drive instruction in the classroom."
In January, the Chancellor will present to the board details of the proposed English standards, which will be tailored to New York City, with examples of student work that reflect the city's diversity and books that are a part of the state's approved list of reading materials. He said he hoped to implement the English standards in September. The standards for science and math will be retooled with the goal of introducing them in the 1998-99 school year. The standards for applied learning are scheduled to begin in 1999-2000.
New Standards, whose staff consists of education experts from the University of Pittsburgh and a Washington organization called the National Center on Education and the Economy, is planning to develop similar programs for social studies and other subjects in the coming years, and to expand the testing to include other grades. Like the other standards, these would be based on recommendations from major national panels, including the National Council of Teachers of English, but clarified so that teachers would know how to apply them.
Education experts and parents groups yesterday praised the Chancellor's goal to impose higher standards, although they had not seen the specific proposals.
"I think it is a good strategy, if it is a strategy and not a one-shot deal," said Diane Ravitch, a researcher at New York University. "If this is the strategy then teachers will presumably know what they are expected to teach and will be prepared to teach it. The textbooks will reflect the standards. Parents understand what kids are expected to learn. All of the parts of the system get connected."
Ayo Harrington, the president of the United Parents Association, was more effusive.
"I say hallelujah," Ms. Harrington said. "I'm somewhat surprised that this doesn't exist already. It's way past due."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew yesterday with Sandra E. Lerner, a school board member, and William C. Thompson Jr., its president. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 
 
Chart: "Reasoning, Not Reciting"
The new academic standards being embraced by Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew and State Education Commissioner Richard Mills demand more from students by emphasizing analysis and creative thinking, not just memorization of facts and formulas.
 
MATH PROBLEMS
 
Fourth Grade
Figure out how many Valentine's Day cards would be exchanged in total, if all the students in your class gave everyone else a card.
 
Put five objects, such as books, rocks or pumpkins, in rank order by weight, first estimating and then by measuring exactly.
 
Show how the letters "aab, aab . . . " can represent the pattern "metal, metal, plastic," "leaf, leaf, rock" or many other patterns.
 
Eighth Grade
 
Investigate the area around your school and neighborhood to describe the size of an acre and a square mile.
 
Lottery players often say, "Well, my numbers have to come up sometime." Analyze a state lottery game to see how many number combinations there are and how many weeks, months or years it will take for all of them to be drawn.
 
Starting with the numbers from 1 to 36, find out all you can about writing them as sums of consecutive whole numbers. What kinds of numbers can be written as the sum of two consecutive whole numbers, of three consecutive whole numbers, of four consecutive whole numbers. Which numbers cannot be written as the sum of consecutive whole numbers? What patterns do you notice? Why do you think they occur?
 
Tenth Grade
 
Show there must have been at least one misprint in a newspaper report on an election that says:
 
Yes votes - 13,657 (42%)
No votes - 186,491 (58%)
 
Suggest two different specific places the misprint may have occurred.
 
Explain which is a better fit, a square peg in a round hole or a round peg in a square hole. Go on to the case of a cube in a sphere vs. a sphere in a cube.
 
Compare a frequency distribution of salaries of women in a company with a frequency distribution of salaries of men. Describe and quantify similarities and differences in the distributions and interpret them.
 
READING
 
All students will be asked to read 25 books a year. Teachers can pick and choose, but the suggested reading list contains fiction, nonfiction, poetry, folklore, drama, science fiction and fantasy, and magazines or other periodicals. Here are the nonfiction and science fiction lists:
 
Elementary School
 
Nonfiction
 
Aliki Corn is Maize: The Gift of the Indians
 Baylor The Way to Start a Day
 Cherry The Great Kapok Tree
 Epstein History of Women in Science for Young People
 Fritz And Then What Happened, Paul Revere
 Greenfield Childtimes: A Three-Generation Memoir
 Godkin Wolf Island
 Hamilton Anthony Burns: The Defeat and Triumph of a Fugitive Slave
 McGovern The Secret Soldier: The Story of Deborah Sampson
 McKissak Frederick Douglass: The Black Lion
 Politi Song of the Swallows
 Sattler Dinosaurs of North America

 Middle School
 
 Armory The Cat Who Came for Christmas
 Berck No Place to Be: Voices of Homeless Children
 Frank Diary of a Young Girl
 George The Talking Earth
 Gilbreth Cheaper by the Dozen
 Haskins Outward Dreams
 Hautzig Endless Steppe: A Girl in Exile
 Herriott All Creatures Great and Small
 Lester To Be a Slave
 Meyers Pearson, a Harbor Seal Pup Soto Living Up the Street
 White Ryan White: My Own Story
 Yates Amos Fortune, Free Man

 High School
 
 Angell Late Innings
 Angelou I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
 Ashe Days of Grace
 Beal 'I Will Fight No More Forever': Chief Joseph and the Nez Perce War
 Bishop The Day Lincoln Was Shot
 Bloom The Closing of the American Mind
 Campbell The Power of Myth
 Covey Seven Habits of Highly Effective People
 Galarza Barrio Boy
 Hawking A Brief History of Time
 Houston Farewell to Manzanar
 Kennedy Profiles in Courage
 Kingsley and Levitz Count Us In: Growing Up With Down Syndrome
 Kingston Woman Warrior
 Mazer, ed. Going Where I'm Coming From
 Momaday The Way to Rainy Mountain
 Rodriquez Hunger of Memory
 Sternberg User's Guide to the Internet
 Wright Black Boy (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; MATHEMATICS; READING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; TESTS AND TESTING; ENGLISH LANGUAGE STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (79%); CURRICULA (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); APPROVALS (78%); CHRISTMAS (74%); LOTTERIES (50%); 

PERSON: CREW, RUDOLPH F (CHANCELLOR); BELLUCK, PAM

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



102 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Loses 19.75 Points; Late Buying Limits Slide
Stocks stumbled in volatile trading as money managers sold to lock in recent profits on issues like Du Pont, United Technologies and I.B.M. The Dow Jones industrial average, which skidded 79 points on Tuesday, lost 19.75 points, closing at 6,422.94, and the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks gave up 3.18 points, closing at 745.10.
But a steeper decline was averted with a late lift from stocks like AT& T, J. P. Morgan and General Motors. Driven by Intel, the Nasdaq composite index, after a late rally, closed down 3.35 points at 1,297.02. [Page D10.]
 
Ford Sales Down 2.2%
Ford Motor said that its sales fell 2.2 percent in November as American auto makers lost ground to Japanese and European rivals. The Big Three built 72.1 percent of the cars and trucks sold in the United States in November, down three percentage points. [D5.]
 
Retail Outlook Strong
Retailers were generally upbeat on the eve of the holiday shopping season, the Federal Reserve reported. Growth was seen as moderating with few signs of inflation. [D6.]

The bond market was hurt by the report showing continued pockets of economic strength and by a Fed decision to refrain from coming to market to buy Treasury securities for its own account. The 30-year bond's yield rose to 6.39 percent from 6.36 percent. [D17.]

Big Honda Dealer Indicted
Joseph R. Hendrick 3d, who operates one of the country's largest chains of auto dealerships, was indicted in Asheville, N.C., on Federal charges of conspiring to bribe Honda officials to get extra cars and dealerships. His lawyer said he would plead not guilty. [D4.]
 
Buyout Fund Reaches $3 Billion
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette is said to have raised $3 billion for its new buyout fund, DLJ Merchant Banking Partners II. [D10.]
Marketing Plans for Mondex
Seven financial giants, including Chase Manhattan and Dean Witter, Discover, have agreed to market the Mondex electronic cash product in the United States. Customers can load money onto a plastic card with a computer chip and use it in vending machines, in pay phones and over the Internet. [D3.]
 
Connecticut A-Plant to Close
Faced with rising competition from other electricity sources and high operating costs, Northeast Utilities has decided to shut down the Connecticut Yankee nuclear power plant, which has one of the industry's best long-term performance records, permanently. [A1.]
 
NatWest to Cut 10,000 Jobs
National Westminster Bank plans to cut as many as 10,000 jobs, or 20 percent of its work force, in Britain over five years. [D3.]
 
Malone Battles Cable Programmers
John C. Malone, chief executive of Tele-Communications Inc., opened fire at cable programmers. Under pressure from Wall Street to improve profit margins, he told analysts that Tele-Communications was likely to drop several cable services including WGN, the superstation, and Comedy Central, a cable service that is jointly owned by Time Warner and Viacom. [D9.]
 
Delay Hurts Northern Telecom
Northern Telecom shares have lost almost 5 percent of their value since Tuesday, the day Sprint Spectrum said it would not meet its target for introducing advanced wireless voice and data services. It said Northern Telecom had not provided it with reliable software in time. Now analysts are questioning how effectively the Canadian company can compete with Lucent Technologies. Market Place. [D10.]
 
Exports Fuel German Growth
Soaring German exports buoyed otherwise tepid economic growth in the third quarter. The gross domestic product rose eight-tenths of 1 percent, down from the second quarter but enough to lead analysts to predict a modest expansionary pace into 1997. [D9.]
 
Saga in $1.23 Billion Purchase
Saga Petroleum of Norway, moving to raise its daily oil production about 36 percent, agreed to acquire Santa Fe Exploration of Britain for $1.23 billion from Kuwait Petroleum. [D7.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,442 down 19.75
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.39% up 0.03
The Dollar -- 113.07 yen down 0.22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); UTX (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); NU (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (58%); INTEL CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (51%); ASHTEAD PLANT HIRE CO LTD (51%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (86%); RETAILERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (74%); RETAIL SALES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); INDICTMENTS (69%); MERCHANT BANKING (67%); SMART CARDS (66%); LAWYERS (64%); BRIBERY (64%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); POWER PLANTS (64%); CONSPIRACY (64%); MARKETING PLAN (61%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (55%); 

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



103 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Peace Effort Derailed Before Hebron Deadlock;
Put Israel on Notice

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your headline "Netanyahu, Scorning Critics, Visits West Bank Settlement" (news article, Nov. 27) is an accurate summary of what has been the policy and attitude of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel since his election. 
 Mr. Netanyahu must be judged by his actions and lack of actions. He has stalled implementing the signed agreements of previous Israeli governments regarding Hebron, the release of prisoners and other matters. He has ended the freeze on new building in the territories and has authorized thousands of new units. New roads and tunnels are being built all over the territories, eating up more of the minuscule amounts of land available to the Palestinians.
Such policies will result in disaster, turning the clock back to the days of the intifada or worse. Israel will again be isolated, as in the days before the election of 1992. Relations with the United States will be more strained, and Israel's economy will continue on the downward path of the last six months.
It is time for the great majority of American Jews who supported the peace process begun in Oslo to raise their voices in opposition to these policies. It is also time for President Clinton to let Prime Minister Netanyahu and his Government know that a return to the path of peace is essential.
 
(Rabbi) ISRAEL S. DRESNER
President, Education Fund
for Israeli Civil Rights & Peace
New York, Nov. 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); OSLO, NORWAY (50%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%); 

PERSON: NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN); DRESNER, ISRAEL S (RABBI) BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996



104 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 38; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: On Learning Chinese

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A Nov. 29 news article explains well the differences in language usage among the growing numbers of Chinese living in the United States. However, it uncritically repeats the mainland China Government's contention that simplified Chinese characters were adopted to "eliminate illiteracy."
A government can develop an educated citizenry with adequate education budgets and an environment that supports scholarship. It is not essential to undermine a cultural tradition. The Chinese living on Taiwan enjoy a higher literacy rate (94 percent) than their compatriots on the mainland (79 percent) using traditional Chinese characters. 
 I do not think these should thereby be called "Taiwan style" characters. The Taiwan Chinese are quite naturally continuing the centuries of written Chinese culture, to which use of simplified characters presents an unnecessary barrier.
 
T.K. LEE
New York, Nov. 29, 1996
 
Senior Information Officer
Taipei Economic and Cultural Office

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TAIWAN; TAIWAN (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHINESE LANGUAGE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LITERACY RATES (88%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGETS (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (55%); 

PERSON: LEE, T K

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



105 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 24; Column 1; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
A Chinese Medici Who Used A Houseboat as His Museum

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
ART history is a record of inspired acts, but it is also a story of economic transactions. And sometimes the people who pay for art are as influential as the artists themselves. The young Michelangelo might have done just fine without Medici money behind him. Then again, he might not.
Other cultures have their Medicis, of course. China had many, and one was a man named Zhou Lianggong, born in 1612. A Government official and a scholar, he lived in the turbulent transitional years of two great dynasties, the Ming (1368-1644) and the Qing (1644-1911), and his career was punctuated with drama: he was imprisoned and exiled and narrowly escaped execution. 
 Throughout all the upheaval, one thing remained constant. For more than 40 years, Zhou collected thousands of works of art. His taste was broad; paintings, carved seals and calligraphic scrolls were of equal interest. And his love of art was deep: he carried his collection with him wherever he went, often displaying it on the houseboat that served as his floating museum.
By his own admission, he was, in fact, addictively acquisitive, though his habit was not unusual. In China, art patronage was regarded as the quintessential gentlemanly pursuit, and connoisseurship carried a moral weight. Where Zhou was distinctive, however, was in his particular interest: he had a passion for the contemporary work of his day.
Whether the artists in question were great -- and he collected some of the greatest -- or respectably forgettable didn't seem to matter much. He embraced them all and meticulously documented their biographies in his monumental book "Lives of Painters," which remains a standard reference to this day.
In an interesting reversal, Zhou himself is now the subject of scholarly scrutiny in an exhibition, organized by Hongnam Kim, at the China Institute in America. Titled "The Life of a Patron: Zhou Lianggong (1612-1672) and the Painters of 17th-Century China," it takes the approach of examining a collector through the art he acquired, and indeed most of the 80 or so works assembled here were owned by Zhou himself.
There are problems. Anyone coming to the show in search of the "life" promised by the title will leave disappointed. Direct evidence of Zhou as a personality -- complex, conflicted, ambitious -- is missing, and his absence makes the show feel oddly incohesive and centerless. But for the visitor seeking other things -- an intimate snapshot of a specific time and a culture, say -- there are many rewards.
As is often the case, Zhou's patterns of collecting both shaped and reflected the taste of his day, and much of the art he favored, while it adhered to China's tradition-bound esthetic, might be described as cutting-edge. As a young man, he had been affiliated with a circle of vanguard artists who espoused an art of personal expression, and works in this style can be found here.
Two of them are landscapes: one, pinpoint fine in its linear grace, by the renowned monk-artist Hongren (1610-64); the other, by Kuncan (1612-73), as dark and fluid as if its mountain view had melted into rushing water. But perhaps this idiosyncratic approach is best exemplified in a wonderful hand scroll produced expressly for Zhou by Chen Hongshou (1599-1652) in which scenes from the life of the poet Tao Qian are rendered in an irreverently cartoonish style.
Chen was already recognized as a major figure in his lifetime, and buying his work could only have been a smart investment. But sometimes Zhou's interest was dictated less by fame than by sentimental attachment to an artist or his work.
This was true in the case of a painter, Hu Yukun (active 1640-1672), who lived with Zhou and his family for more than 20 years. As an artist, he was disparaged by many of his peers, but one can easily see why Zhou liked to have him around. His Whistleresque "Misty Landscape" is both contemplative and startlingly modern, and the album paintings of Zhou's birthplace, titled "Historic Spots in Nanjing," are like sweet dreams of childhoods past.
In the last decade of his life, Zhou's tastes shifted away from individualistic work to the so-called Orthodox School of painting, and he put his money on a rising star, the prodigiously gifted Wang Hui (1632-1717). A hand scroll by Wang titled "Summer Mountain and Misty Rain" is a highlight of the show. Fluent and smooth, with centuries of Chinese art at its fingertips, his is a hand that could do no wrong.
Zhou's endorsement no doubt did much to establish the young artist's career, though, in a twist of circumstance as common now as it was 300 years ago, it also helped push the demand for his paintings so high that Zhou himself could no longer afford to buy them.
The aging collector seems to have taken his diminished purchasing power as a personal defeat, and before he died he fretted that history would forget him. He need not have worried. His "Lives of Painters" links his name forever to the artists he supported. And his collection, though long dispersed, enjoys a lingering fame. One gets at least an inkling of its magnificence from "The Life of a Patron," and even if Zhou the man remains elusive, one can easily imagine him smiling in satisfaction at this modest but loving tribute.
 "The Life of a Patron: Zhou Lianggong (1612-1672) and the Painters of 17th-Century China" is at the China Institute in America, 125 East 65th Street, Manhattan, through Dec. 21.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A detail from the 17th-century "Portrait of Zhou Lianggong" by Yu Zhiding, at the China Institute. (China Institute in America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: CHINA INSTITUTE IN AMERICA CHINA INSTITUTE IN AMERICA (90%); CHINA INSTITUTE IN AMERICA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHINA INSTITUTE IN AMERICA CHINA INSTITUTE IN AMERICA (90%); CHINA INSTITUTE IN AMERICA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ART HISTORY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); HISTORY (89%); PAINTING (79%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); EVIDENCE (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%); 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND; ZHOU LIANGGONG (1612-72)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



106 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: About Real Estate;
Touch of Tarnish on Sutton Place Image

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
As prices have risen steadily for apartments along Fifth and Park Avenues, in TriBeCa, in Greenwich Village and on the side streets of Carnegie Hill, many of the city's brokers report that prices are flat along Sutton Place.
And while that does not mean that Sutton Place's prestigious buildings have suddenly opened their doors to the masses, several of the city's most respected brokers say that within the last decade Sutton Place's golden image has become slightly tarnished. 
 "It's an interesting phenomenon," said Frederick W. Peters, president of Ashforth Warburg Real Estate. "Sutton Place was hot in the 80's. Then the market crashed and it's a neighborhood that's never come back." There has been one exception, he added: "Sales of retirement apartments there have remained stable."
Barbara Corcoran, chairman of the Corcoran Group, said: "Prices in Sutton Place aren't going up, and they may be going down. It's lost some of its allure over the years; the people who were attracted 10 years ago are the same people today. The population hasn't changed; they've just grown older. The area hasn't attracted the youthful money."
Some of the Sutton Place apartments have been "on the market for eons," said Larry Sicular, an appraiser in charge of statistics at Brown Harris Stevens, a firm known for handling higher-priced apartments in blue-chip neighborhoods. "Sutton Place is lovely but it's perceived as being out of the way. Fewer people want to live there -- and it's true in every price range."
Several brokers argued that the trend made it a good time to buy. "You can definitely do better in Sutton Place right now than you can on Park Avenue and Carnegie Hill," Mr. Peters said. He said he just sold a prewar three-bedroom apartment in a good building for "$1.1 million and change." In Carnegie Hill such a property might sell for $1.4 million; a similar apartment in the 70's on Park Avenue might sell for upward of $1.6 million, the broker said.
"Sutton Place is one of the areas that has the greatest value right now," said Alan Rogers, managing director of Douglas Elliman Inc., another real estate brokerage firm that focuses on higher-end apartments. "The problem emerges particularly with the large apartments. It's still thought to be very convenient for pieds-a-terre and for a midtown walk to work. But for families, it's not particularly near the schools and if the kids want to play with other kids, they aren't just around the corners and it becomes a bigger deal, putting them in the cab -- and who's going to go with them and then go to fetch them?"
There is no question, Mr. Rogers said, that similar apartments along Park and Fifth Avenues sell at higher prices, although in Sutton Place's best addresses, notably One Sutton, a superb prewar building with a circular driveway and rear garden overlooking the East River, prices may equal those in the best buildings on the Upper East Side,
The Sutton Place apartments take longer to sell, Mr. Sicular said. At One Sutton, one large apartment took only a month to sell. But another took 20 months, and another 10 months, according to Mr. Sicular, who said that for comparable buildings along Park and Fifth, there were often waiting lists of buyers.
In a report, Mr. Sicular wrote: "The limited demand for Sutton Place is critical to our understanding of sales and asking prices at One Sutton Place South. One Sutton Place offers considerable architectural grandeur, social prestige and a beautiful garden and river views."
But according to the appraiser, one apartment at One Sutton -- he refused to say which one -- was "expensively and luxuriously renovated and perfectly decorated yet its sale price was only slightly higher" than a comparably sized apartment at 720 Park Avenue "which needed considerable renovation "and was "substantially less" than another comparably sized apartment at 740 Park Avenue which was "maintained well but not renovated."
Today's buyers, Mr. Sicular concluded, "prefer the name recognition of Park and Fifth Avenue and the proximity of their economic peers."
While Mr. Sicular gave no overall statistics for Sutton Place, Ms. Corcoran offered a comparison between Sutton Place and Carnegie Hill, a family neighborhood that has been considered "hot" for the last several years.
In Sutton Place the average price for a four- to six-room apartment was $519,000 in 1994, $446,000 in 1995 and $514,000 this year. In Carnegie Hill, it was $512,000 in 1994, $549,000 in 1995 and $615,000 this year.
Ms. Corcoran also said the reputation of Sutton Place's co-op boards for being strict was "a misnomer."
With several exceptions -- topped by One Sutton -- she said the area's co-ops "were not particularly difficult to pass the board."
Despite its fashionable image, Sutton Place and its environs are full of postwar co-ops, she said, "with very liberal cash requirements " -- referring to the percentage of the purchase price that boards mandate must not be borrowed -- "and really not very stuffy at all."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: ABOUT REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (54%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SUTTON PLACE (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



107 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 38; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Victories at Trade Panel May Prove Hollow

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"A Strong Start for the Trade Panel" (editorial, Dec. 3) contends that the World Trade Organization's dispute panels "are working firmly to America's advantage." This analysis ignores the fact that the interests of Americans extend beyond the narrow concerns of a few exporters. 
 Under the trade organization, the United States is 0 for 1 in defending challenges to its laws. That one loss resulted in the rewriting of a Clean Air Act regulation. Two challenges against a United States law protecting sea turtles are pending.
While you are correct that so far the United States has filed more disputes than any other government, this was not the case under an earlier form of the trade agreement. It is a mistake to assume that a United States challenge is in the public interest. For example, the United States is challenging the European Union's ban on imports of meat treated with hormones and has threatened a challenge against a proposed European Union ban on fur caught by leghold traps.
To determine the full impact of the trade organization, it is necessary to look beyond the disputes filed. Since its rules favor trade and the economic penalties for violating those rules are automatic, even the threat of a challenge can force nations to weaken environmental laws. For example, the threat of a W.T.O. challenge has led the Clinton Administration to attempt to weaken the Marine Mammal Protection Act.
Consider what is at risk. The 125 member nations consider a wide variety of United States state and Federal laws to be trade barriers. For example, the European Union executive body objects to California's safe drinking water law, the Federal Nutrition Labeling and Education Act and state and Federal restrictions on lead in ceramics, to name a few.
The trade organization has no mechanism for public participation. Proceedings are conducted in secrecy. Only a fraction of documents are made public. The panelists who hear cases are not required to disclose potential conflicts of interest.
There is no question that the W.T.O. works to the advantage of a small number of multinational corporations. Unfortunately, it only harms our laws and our democratic process.
 
CHRIS MC GINN
Washington, Dec. 4, 1996
 
The writer is deputy director of Public Citizen's Global Trade Watch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); MARINE MAMMALS (75%); WILDLIFE (75%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (71%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (71%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (70%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); MAMMALS (70%); PRODUCT LABELING (70%); FOOD LABELING (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: MCGINN, CHRIS HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



108 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Weakens After Rally, Hurt by a Number of Factors

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rallied in early trading yesterday, then dropped later in the day, weakened by a selloff in the United States bond market and forecasts of a stable yen from Japan's central banker. The dollar was also hurt indirectly by a broad plunge in the British pound.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar fell to 1.5516 marks from 1.5601 marks on Wednesday and to 112.46 yen from 113.07 yen. The British pound traded at $1.6332, down from $1.6434. 
 The dollar initially rallied after Eisuke Sakakibara, influential director of the Japanese Finance Ministry's international finance bureau, reiterated in a television interview that Japan's foreign-exchange policy had not changed.
The dollar also received help after Germany reported an unexpected rise in November unemployment, raising hopes for an interest-rate reduction there, which would make the mark less attractive. But the Bundesbank left rates unchanged at its regular meeting.
Traders said the dollar reversed course after the governor of the Bank of Japan, Yasuo Matsushita, said the yen was not likely to fall in the near future. Mr. Matsushita made his remarks in an interview to be published today in the Japanese newspaper Nihon Keizai Shimbun.
The pound fell after the governor of the Bank of England, Eddie George, told Parliament that he saw no need for another quick increase in interest rates to forestall inflation in the economy. Traders have been expecting that rates, which were last raised in October, would further increase before the end of the year.
The pound's retreat primarily helped the mark and yen, indirectly reducing the dollar's value against those currencies.
A share drop in the Treasury market became the focus of foreign-exchange trading later in the day. A decline in American bonds hurts the dollar by reducing demand for the currency. But some traders said it was difficult to determine whether the dollar's retreat was aggravating the decline in the bond market or vice versa.
" It's unclear which was following which," said Dennis Pettit, foreign exchange manager at the New York branch of the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (76%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CURRENCIES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); 

PERSON: EDDIE GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



109 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 39; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
What Can I Do?

BYLINE: By A.M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
In central Indiana, a conservative Republican member of Congress is proposing to his constituents an answer to a question constantly put to themselves by Americans horrified by the ever-increasing oppression through which the Communist Chinese Government rules its own country and occupied Tibet.
These Americans are troubled that their country contributes heavily to the oppression. They know that their Government without anesthesia amputated human rights from its China agenda in favor of more trade -- though it is the Chinese bottom line that profits, not the American. 
 They know that American companies, by tailoring their mouths, minds and actions to obey Beijing, become voluntary prisoners and servitors of the Chinese Communists. They know that the profits of Chinese goods sold in the U.S., and the benefits of American investments, go in substantial part directly to the Chinese Army, police and Politburo. They know those profits help the Chinese Communists build and sell missiles and weapon technologies to other dictatorships, open enemies of the United States.
But facing China's power and the new overarching value of American policy -- trade uber alles -- they ask what can any one American or American family do?
The answer that Representative Dan Burton is giving his constituents is: Boycott Chinese products. Do it now during this holiday buying season, and keep it up when it is over. Send the message that at least in Indiana, Americans have had enough of China's abuses of human rights and will not contribute their own money to those who commit them.
Mr. Burton shames members of Congress, conservative or liberal, who followed or encouraged President Clinton in abandoning human rights. It is a phrase easy to define -- the right to speak, organize, worship, protest and write without fear of arrest, years of torture and slave labor, or murder.
Mr. Burton is not alone. Around the country, young people in almost 300 colleges and high schools are joining with Students for a Free Tibet to boycott Chinese goods. Musicians, actors, painters are joining in -- the kind of people who can reach other Americans.
The students and artists are not naives, nor is Mr. Burton. They know that the Chinese economy will not crumble -- that is not their goal. They know that American businesses in China will not become human rights monitors.
They know that Beijing will light nationalist fires by saying the boycott sanctions are aimed at the people -- exactly as Saddam Hussein says of the restrictions against him, as so many Westerners said of the anti-apartheid boycotts.
Beijing will scream hysterically because it knows that boycotts and disinvestment have two powers. Though they start small, they grow and can force governments to make at least some reforms -- less time on the rack, a looser muzzle maybe.
And they are a powerful way of spreading awareness of a cause that would otherwise die of malignant official neglect.
The boycotters have an obligation not to do it silently. Look at the label on the dress or the toy and when you put it down, tell the clerk or manager. Speak up in the store as disinvestors should at stockholder meetings.
For many Americans, there is a strong religious motivation. Harry Wu, who spent 19 years in a Chinese slave-labor camp and struggles for those still there, wrote to Mr. Burton that the Communists were cracking down harder than ever on Chinese who would not renounce their church.
"That China can benefit from the celebration of Christ's birth while at the same time persecute Chinese Christians is criminal," he said.
In the magazine U.S. Catholic, Donna S. Fernandez wrote about how as Catholics she and her husband decided not to buy anything China-made and to explain to their son why he could not have toys from China.
She found wisdom in the Book of Proverbs: "Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it." For courage in setting out on the path, she turned to a Chinese saying: "The journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step."
And from the General Epistle of James she quotes 1:22: "Be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); TIBET (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); INDIANA, USA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); TIBET (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); INDIANA, USA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS; PUBLIC OPINION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CONSERVATISM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); TORTURE (76%); DIVESTITURES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ARMIES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); 

PERSON: WU, HARRY; BURTON, DAN (REPR); ROSENTHAL, A M DAN BURTON (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



110 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: French Power In Africa Under Attack On All Sides

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Zaire, Dec. 5

 BODY:
When Jacques Chirac won the French presidency last year, returning conservatives to power, champagne toasts were offered in some African capitals by leaders who expected a return of the cozy paternalism that had marked Gaullist policy toward Africa for more than three decades.
Mr. Chirac had criticized his Socialist predecessor, Francois Mitterrand, for creating a policy that tied French aid to the continent to each country's move toward democracy. 
 But far from ushering in a return to a comfortable past, Mr. Chirac's tenure has coincided with one of the most turbulent periods in France's long and deep involvement in Africa. Increasingly, in both France and Africa, people have begun to wonder if Paris's special relationship with the continent can or should survive.
Even as a biannual summit meeting of the French President with African leaders opened today in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Mr. Chirac's speech on the planned theme of the two-day gathering -- "good governance" -- was overshadowed by developments that seemed to underscore Paris's waning influence.
This morning, army mutineers in the Central African Republic, in the midst of their third uprising this year, launched a mortar attack on the only international hotel in the capital, Bangui. The attack drew return fire from French troops stationed in the area, drawing Paris into a situation it had been hoping to avoid. France helped President Ange-Felix Patasse quell a revolt in May, but this time, the French Defense Minister has said, "there is no question of French troops entering an internal conflict."
Last month, explaining France's insistence that the United States and other nations participate in a proposed military force to deliver humanitarian relief to refugees displaced by the conflict in eastern Zaire, Mr. Chirac told his Cabinet that the era of unilateral French intervention in Africa was over.
As France's uncertainty has deepened, its attempts to manage the affairs of increasingly independent-minded African countries are facing growing challenges from other Western counties and from Africans themselves.
"France is no longer capable of imposing itself in Africa," the United States Ambassador here, Daniel Simpson, was recently quoted as saying in an unusually blunt interview with four Zairian newspapers. "Neo-colonialism is no longer acceptable."
Mr. Simpson's comments, widely publicized in France, followed remarks in October by Secretary of State Warren Christopher that "the days are over when Africa could be divided into spheres of influence."
Mr. Christopher's statement, made in irritation over French criticisms of the timing of his first Africa tour, toward the end of his time in office, have been reverberating in France, already nervous about its hold over its former African possessions. In addition to serving as a major outlet for French trade, investment and employment, the political backing of Paris's African allies in forums such as the United Nations is vital to France's continuing sense of itself as a world power.
Throughout Zaire's recent crisis, Paris has been frustrated by the effective veto -- backed by a threat to shoot at French soldiers -- that Rwanda and the Zairian rebels it supports have imposed on a French military presence in eastern Zaire.
Led by a Tutsi elite that is English-speaking because of its long years of exile in Uganda, Rwanda has been openly defiant of France ever since the 1994 overthrow of the Hutu leadership that carried out mass killings against Tutsi in that country.
Never before has a French-speaking African country so clearly escaped Paris's orbit in Africa, and France now seems haunted by the prospect that other countries may seek to go their own way as well.
This week, with Paris seeking to steer the choice of a new United Nations Secretary General to a French-speaker, Cameroon publicly warned France not to veto an African choice to succeed Boutros Boutros-Ghali if he is not a French speaker. Other former French colonies -- from Mali and Guinea to Senegal, Congo and the Ivory Coast -- have branched out as well, diversifying their economic and political ties.
Hoping to attract its former colonies back into a closer embrace, Mr. Chirac opened the Ouagadougou meeting today with a pledge not to allow the French-guaranteed currency used by 14 African countries to be devalued when France adopts a new European currency in two years.
Rather than the predicted sighs of relief, the promise brought a tart response from Congo's President, Pascal Lissouba, who recalled that France's pledges to defend the African currency two years ago had been abruptly broken. Mr. Lissouba asked that Paris put its commitment in writing this time.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (99%); FRANCE (98%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (93%); CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; FRANCE; AFRICA (99%); FRANCE (98%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (93%); CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); ARMIES (74%); REFUGEES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); DISPLACED PERSONS (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W JACQUES CHIRAC (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



111 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW;
When Everyone Sings, Just for the Joy of It

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN 

 BODY:
IT falls to Edward Norton to get the ball rolling. Mr. Norton, the savvy new actor who made such a strong impression this year in "Primal Fear" and the soon-to-be released "The People vs. Larry Flynt," is the first person in Woody Allen's new musical comedy to throw caution to the winds, open his mouth and let go. As the film begins with enchanting glimpses of Central Park in springtime, Mr. Norton begins singing "Just You, Just Me," and the moment comes as a complete shock. The shock is that it works so well.
Not in musical terms: Mr. Norton is no one's idea of a real singer, and he looks every bit as uncomfortable as he should. But "Everyone Says I Love You" treats its music more fondly than seriously anyhow. The songs, sweetly romantic chestnuts, are mostly a way to evoke the madcap, impossible world that Mr. Allen means to conjure. It's a world of both serene privilege and surreal possibility, and it offers a delightful and witty compendium of the film maker's favorite things. 
 Although this film, a particularly sunny example of the protean Allen wizardry, will be seen in December only for the one-week run that qualifies it for 1996 awards consideration (its full run begins early next year), it's a holiday movie in every way. The mood is festive and full of surprises, as when Mr. Norton's song is picked up by people on the street and then by Itzhak and Navah Perlman at an elegant little soiree. The story glides from New York's Upper East Side to lovely locations in Venice and Paris, and it manages wonderfully clever costume events on both Halloween (a singing, trick-or-treating Chiquita Banana) and Christmas Eve (fabulous French Grouchos). The film, like its characters, is always ready for stylish urbanity and movie magic.
Mr. Allen has often invited his characters to step through time or speak bluntly to the audience, and this film's singing is another such device. It brings an extra element of bravado to a story that is otherwise just funny, lighthearted fluff. Working on familiar territory, Mr. Allen dreams up an assortment of neurotic New Yorkers and sets them spinning at a screwball tempo. This suits their rich, carefree circumstances, which deliberately recall the economic dreamland of Depression-era movie luxe. A life this rosy really could prompt the occasional bewitching song.
Fortunately, while reaching out for the quintessential Hollywood escapism of his boyhood (an impulse also responsible for Martin Scorsese's "New York, New York" and Francis Ford Coppola's "One From the Heart"), Mr. Allen never forgets the importance of inspired casting and dependably good gags. Despite its musical aspect, "Everyone Says I Love You" begins very quickly to feel like one more breezy Allen comedy with the occasional tuneful touch. Rather than an aberration, it even plays as an extension of some of his recent work. That Greek chorus in "Mighty Aphrodite" was dying to sing and dance, too.
Goldie Hawn, even more appealing here than she was in "The First Wives Club," plays the obligatory Allen ex-lover, a role that has more substance than usual this time. While still hand-holding her former husband, Joe Berlin (Mr. Allen), Ms. Hawn's Steffi also presides with her new mate, Bob (Alan Alda), over a big, bustling household. And she finds time for a minor career as a limousine liberal. Steffi is seen crusading for prison reform, declaring, "I say give them an opportunity to participate in decorating their own cells!"
Steffi and Bob's assorted children include the schoolgirls Lane and Laura (Gaby Hoffmann and Natalie Portman), pert little Lolitas whom the camera adores; DJ (Natasha Lyonne), the film's worldly teen-age narrator; Scott (Lukas Haas), the unaccountably conservative son who enjoys talking about the right to bear arms, and Skylar (Drew Barrymore), a creamy debutante who is pure calendar girl.
Skylar's engagement to Holden (Mr. Norton, who really does suggest Holden Caulfield on antidepressants) is the closest the film comes to a plot device: none too close. On the other hand, Holden's buying an engagement ring signals one song ("My Baby Just Cares for Me," featuring dancing diamond salesmen at Harry Winston). And Skylar's accidentally swallowing it at Le Cirque brings on another ("Makin' Whoopee," sung at the hospital, where the singers include three pregnant women in bathrobes). And it brings on the film's best supporting character, Tim Roth's hilariously predatory ex-con. He is warmly welcomed by Steffi until he sings "If I Had You" to Skylar, thus threatening to break her engagement and ruin her life.
The least successful part of "Everyone Says I Love You," musically and otherwise, is the subplot that has Joe wooing the beautiful, unhappily married Von (Julia Roberts). Though these scenes unfold in the film's most ravishing European settings (e.g., the candlelit courtyard of a Venetian palazzo), they have a halfhearted, weary tone. These two are the film's most reluctant singers, with Mr. Allen barely willing to face the camera or raise his voice above a whisper. And despite Ms. Roberts's radiant presence, there's no urgency to the drama of Mr. Allen's playing one more lovesick older man. ("Men age differently than women," he jokes spikily to Ms. Hawn's character. "Two more years, I'm gonna look like your son.")
But "Everyone Says I Love You" will be better remembered for its high notes, like the dance beside the Seine with Mr. Allen and Ms. Hawn, which seems to capture the full wistful, hopeful range of this film maker's idea of romance. Its companion piece (staged at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel on Madison Avenue, in a film that's especially specific in mapping the geography of affluent New York) is no less fanciful in its tuneful contemplation of death. The film, opening today at the Sony Theaters Lincoln Square, is also enhanced by Jeffrey Kurland's costumes, which are both posh and playful, and by the lavish look of Carlo DiPalma's cinematography. The film hasn't much narrative reason to explore the canals of Venice or the Champs-Elysees, but Mr. DiPalma's inviting European scenes are worth the trip.

"Everyone Says I Love You" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes mild profanity and occasional allusions to making whoopee.
 
EVERYONE SAYS I LOVE YOU

Written and directed by Woody Allen; director of photography, Carlo DiPalma; edited by Susan E. Morse; music arranged and conducted by Dick Hyman; choreography by Graciela Daniele; production designer, Santo Loquasto; costumes by Jeffrey Kurland; produced by Robert Greenhut; released by Miramax Films. At the Sony Theaters Lincoln Square, 1998 Broadway, at 68th Street. Running time: 97 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: Edward Norton (Holden), Goldie Hawn (Steffi), Woody Allen (Joe), Alan Alda (Bob), Gaby Hoffmann (Lane), Natalie Portman (Laura), Drew Barrymore (Skylar), Natasha Lyonne (DJ), Lukas Haas (Scott), Julia Roberts (Von) and Tim Roth (Charles Ferry).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Engaged: Drew Barrymore and Edward Norton in Woody Allen's new musical comedy, "Everyone Says I Love You." (John Clifford/Miramax Films) (pg. C18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: EVERYONE SAYS I LOVE YOU (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

COMPANY: CHIQUITA BANANA NORTH AMERICA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (53%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); MUSIC (89%); HALLOWEEN (88%); MUSICAL THEATER (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); CHRISTMAS (70%); 

PERSON: MASLIN, JANET DREW BARRYMORE (58%); FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



112 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Leader Urges Ending Of Rent Rules

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
Staking out a position at one end of what promises to be a pitched battle, the Republican leader of the State Senate yesterday proposed to do away with almost all rent regulation by mid-1999.
Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, all but dared the Democratic leaders of the Assembly to stand in his way, stating that if they do not work with him to phase out rent regulation, he will simply allow the current rent laws, which cover about 1.2 million apartments, nearly all of them in New York City, to expire next June 15. Without an extension of the law in some form, all landlords would be free to charge whatever the market would bear when current leases run out. 
 While his comments may be just the opening position in haggling that will likely last the length of next year's legislative session, Mr. Bruno showed how serious he is about rent deregulation three years ago, when he helped push through decontrol of certain high-rent units, the first major change in the system in a generation.
Mr. Bruno said he would block an extension of the law, allowing it to expire, or "sunset."
"When a law sunsets, it sunsets all by itself," Mr. Bruno, who is from Brunswick, in Rensselaer County, told the annual meeting in Manhattan of the Rent Stabilization Association, the largest landlords' group and a powerful political fund-raising and lobbying force. "You don't need the Senate, you don't need the Assembly, you don't need the Governor. That's the framework in which we're going to work."
And he asserted yesterday that he was not just posturing. He predicted that Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, would hold the state budget and any legislation dear to Republicans hostage in an effort to try to save rent regulation. Mr. Bruno said he would pay that price.
Three major landlord groups have contributed more than $700,000 this year to state lawmakers' campaigns, mostly to Republicans, and that figure does not account for contributions from individual landlords. The largest beneficiary was the Senate Republican Campaign Committee, controlled by Mr. Bruno, which received $174,000.
Tenant advocates, who argue that deregulation would price hundreds of thousands of families out of the housing market, predicted yesterday that any wholesale retreat from rent regulation would make it open season on Mr. Bruno and his allies in the 1998 elections.
"The Republicans are going to lose a lot more seats if they do something like this, not just in New york City but in suburban counties, too," said Billy Easton, executive director of the New York State Tenants and Neighbors Coalition.
Of Mr. Bruno's insistence that he is inflexible, Mr. Silver said, "I think in the course of the next six months, there's a lot of give and take." He has resisted any significant retreat from rent regulation, saying yesterday that it would create "a city of the very poor and the very rich."
In a meeting yesterday with the editorial board of The New York Times, Mr. Bruno cast Mr. Silver as one pole in the coming debate, with himself -- "as far opposite as I can get without saying on June 16, you're totally decontrolled."
But, as Mr. Silver noted, the opposition to Mr. Bruno's plan extends to his own party. Gov. George E. Pataki, who has worked hard to expand his political base in the city, and Republican members of the Senate from the city and its suburbs have expressed some unease with an outright abolition of rent regulation. Yesterday, Mr. Pataki released a statement citing a need to "move toward a market system while continuing protections for senior citizens, the disabled and those on fixed incomes," but he declined to comment directly on Mr. Bruno's plan.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a fellow Republican who has no direct role in the fight but could influence the debate, said yesterday that he supports the current system. "I think we have struck a reasonable balance in New York City with our rent regulations, our rent increases," he said. "I think New York City should be left to make this decision for itself."
Under Mr. Bruno's plan, any unit that became vacant after June 15 would be completely decontrolled. Luxury decontrol, which now applies to any apartment that rents for $2,000 a month or more whose occupants have annual incomes of more than $250,000 for two consecutive years, would be expanded. And all units would be decontrolled in 1999, or when their leases expired, whichever came later. Only protections for low-income elderly and disabled renters would remain.
Mr. Bruno indicated a willingness to compromise -- and only a slight, grudging one at that -- only on his proposal for a two-year span between the expiration of the current law and the end of rent regulation.
And he said it does not matter how much he is undercut by fellow Republicans because he holds the trump card, in the looming prospect of a June 15 end for all rent regulations. "I don't need any votes," he said.
Asked if he had discussed the matter with Mr. Pataki, Mr. Bruno said: "I informed the Governor. It was a monologue. He listened."
Rent stabilization applies to about 1 million apartments in New York City, and rent control covers an additional 100,000. Each sets a maximum rent for an apartment and limits annual increases, but rent control has generally kept rents much lower than rent stabilization. There are 60,000 rent-stabilized apartments and 15,000 rent-controlled apartments in suburbs of New York City and in several upstate cities, with the heaviest concentration in Westchester County.
During the recession of the early 1990's, market forces pushed down rents, and landlords were often unable to get the maximum rents for vacant rent-stabilized units. Since then, surging demand for housing has combined with a supply that has been shrinking for more than a decade to push rents higher.
Predictably, the two sides to the debate disagree vehemently over who benefits from rent regulation, to what extent, and what its elimination would accomplish.
The Rent Stabilization Association points to a 1992 study that it commissioned by a Harvard economist, which found that rents for regulated and unregulated comparable apartments are essentially the same, except in Manhattan below 96th Street, and so deregulation would not affect the average rent. Even in Manhattan below 96th Street,, it states, deregulation would raise rents an average of just $50 a month.
By contrast, a Tenants and Neighbors Coalition study found that unregulated rents were one-quarter to three-quarters higher than regulated rents in the same neighborhoods. "Why would the landlords be fighting this so hard unless they stood to make a huge profit?" Mr. Easton asked.
Mr. Bruno contends that rent regulation has inhibited apartment construction and rehabilitation, contributing to the housing shortage and ultimately driving up rents. Mr. Easton notes that landlords are already free to build unregulated apartments. The Senator says wealthy and upper-middle-class tenants benefit most from rent regulation; the Tenants and Neighbors Coalition cites figures showing that the poorer residents are, the more likely they are to live in rent-regulated buildings.
What is clear is that the impact of deregulation would vary enormously, not just neighborhood by neighborhood but tenant by tenant. In some buildings, new renters pay several times as much as their more tenured neighbors. And incomes, particularly in more expensive areas, can also vary sharply.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Bruno called yesterday for ending almost all rent regulation. Demonstrators hoisted signs yesterday outside the Sheraton New York hotel in Manhattan, where the State Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, addressed the annual meeting of the Rent Stabilization Association. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RENT STABILIZATION ASSN

ORGANIZATION: RENT STABILIZATION ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY RENT CONTROL (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (77%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LOBBYING (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%); COUNTIES (70%); BUDGETS (70%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



113 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Buyers Wary, Bonds Drop For a 2d Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
After a steady climb for much of the last few weeks, the bond market went into its steepest dive in more than three months yesterday. A weaker dollar encouraged nervous investors to sell Treasury securities in advance of the November employment report due out today.
It was the second decline in a row for the market. Despite the rise in long-term interest rates, which move in the opposite direction of bond prices, rates on 30-year Governments remained more than half a percentage point below where they were just three months ago. 
 Traders were also wary of what the employment report might contain. They expressed fears that if the number of new jobs jumps more than the 175,000 or so expected in the market, renewed signs of economic vigor would cause bonds to fall further.
The 30-year Treasury bond fell 1 10/32 to a price of 100 3/32 , producing a yield of 6.50 percent, up from 6.39 percent on Wednesday. That matched the highest yield in nearly a month.
Analysts said the 11 basis point jump in yield for the long bond was the biggest since Aug. 23, when the yield rose 12 basis points to 6.95 percent. Yesterday's losses for investors amounted to about $13 per $1,000 of bonds held.
Traders were exceptionally busy at their computer terminals. The total value of Treasury securities sold yesterday totaled $101.5 billion, according to Maureen Mooney, an analyst with GovPx, a bond pricing service. It was only the sixth time in the last eight months that the market exceeded $100 billion in volume. The last time was Nov. 13, when the total was $100.9 billion.
In foreign exchange markets, the dollar took a tumble against most of the world's major currencies, adding momentum to the bond market's slide during the day. A weaker dollar makes investments in the United States less attractive to foreign investors when they try to convert their profits into their local currency. Meanwhile, domestic investors start worrying about whether foreigners will continue to buy American bonds.
And the Federal Reserve failed again to buy securities during the day in a so-called "coupon pass," once again disappointing traders who have been expecting the move to lift the market for more than a week.
With all the adverse news, analysts said, many market participants simply decided that bonds had rallied enough and were now overpriced.
Dave Shabelman, a market analyst with MMS International in San Francisco, explained that a lot of traders have been waiting for signs of a selloff to set off a wave of profit taking and took advantage of the turn in the market to do just that, thereby adding to the decline.
Charles Roden, managing director at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, argued that the yield on the long bond was probably about as low as it can go "unless of course you tell me we are going into a recession."
At the one-year bill auction yesterday, the average rate for the new one-year bill was 5.16 percent, down from 5.20 percent last month. Following are the results of the auction:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	Average Price . . .	94.783	Discounted Rate . . .	5.16%	Coupon Yield . . .	5.45%	High Price . . .	94.813	Discounted Rate . . .	5.13%	Coupon Yield . . .	5.41%	Low Price . . .	94.783	Discounted Rate . . .	5.16%	Coupon Yield . . .	5.45%	Accepted at low price . . .	86%	Total applied for . . .	$44,292,387	Accepted . . .	$19,326,767	Noncompetitive . . .	$795,344	
 
The one-year bills mature Dec. 11, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from Aug. to Dec. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IAP (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ICAP PLC (54%); JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



114 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 39; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: A 'Technical' Ruse

BYLINE: By Pete Stark; Pete Stark, a Democrat Representative from California, is a member of the Joint Economic Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Boskin Commission's conclusion that the Government has been overstating the inflation rate by 1.1 percent raises some fundamental questions about the purpose of cost-of-living adjustments in benefit programs.
At issue is whether we want to lock elderly and disabled people into the same standard of living that prevailed when they retired, or allow their living standards to improve along with those of other Americans. 
 Because both income tax brackets and programs like Social Security are linked to the Consumer Price Index, even small changes in the inflation rate can have a major effect on the Federal budget. That 1.1 percent, which the Boskin Commission says is based on faulty method of calculating the price index, would increase the national debt by $691 billion over the next 10 years.
Nobody wants to see billions spent that are not justified by real increases in the cost of living. But before we rush to limit increases in the price index, we should consider how the commission arrived at its finding, and whether changing the index is the best way to cut the Federal deficit.
The commission maintains that two problems account for nearly all of the purported overestimates: failure to consider that people often substitute a cheaper item for one whose price has gone up, and failure to consider improvements in product quality. But even if these problems exist, addressing them the way the commission suggests would create serious problems for low-income retirees, who generally buy the cheapest goods they can find already.
For example, the commission talks about substituting chicken for steak when beef prices rise, but fails to note that there are few substitutes for beans and rice.
More than half the budget savings the commission anticipates would come from changes in the way the index counts product quality improvements. If the price of televisions goes up, the commission argues, we should not necessarily count all of that increase; if the new model is better, it's worth more per dollar spent, even if it costs more to buy.
To compare standards of living over long periods of time, improvements in product quality need to be taken into account. But that's not the way to adjust benefits. The kinds of products that undergo the greatest technological change are not generally easy to find in their old forms at their old prices. People on fixed incomes usually don't have the option of going out and buying the old version. And if they can't afford the new version, it doesn't matter to them whether it's better.
Many people live for decades after retirement, and technological change is rapid and major. For the elderly -- especially those with low incomes -- adjusting the Consumer Price Index, and thus reducing Social Security cost-of-living increases, will mean a declining standard of living over time relative to the rest of society.
Hiding policy changes under the guise of technical corrections is a coward's choice. If Congress chooses to cut benefits or raise taxes, let's be open about it and talk about what's fair for people of different generations and income levels. And let's consider other options, like progressive cost-of-living adjustments that decline as income rises. That way, any budget savings won't come at the expense of the poorest members of our society.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Paul Corio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SOCIAL SECURITY (US) INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); AGING (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); QUALITY CONTROL (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (76%); BEEF (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (57%); INCOME TAX (56%); 

PERSON: STARK, PETE (REPR); BOSKIN, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



115 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1656 words

HEADLINE: THE SECOND TERM;
Excerpts From the Announcement on the Cabinet

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the news conference yesterday at which President Clinton introduced new Cabinet appointees, as transcribed by the Federal Document Clearing House.
MR. CLINTON During our first term in office, the Vice President and I were blessed to work with a remarkable national security team -- Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Secretary of Defense Bill Perry, National Security Adviser Anthony Lake, U.N. Ambassador Madeleine Albright, Director of Central Intelligence John Deutch -- all very bright, forceful, strong-minded individuals, who came together as a team to advance America's interests and values around the world. 
 Today the fact that our nation is at peace, our economy is strong and we are making real progress in seizing the opportunities, meeting the challenges of the 21st century, these things are due in no small measure to the teamwork, vision and leadership they gave to the American people.
The Vice President and I and every other American owe all of them a great debt of gratitude.
Now, as we embark upon a new term, our responsibility is to build on the strong foundation laid in the last four years, to make sure that as we enter the 21st century, America remains the indispensable nation, the world's greatest force for peace and prosperity, for freedom and security.
Today I am pleased to announce the new national security team I have selected to help us meet that responsibility: Secretary of State-designate Madeleine Albright, Secretary of Defense-designate William Cohen, Secretary of ---- Director of Central Intelligence-designate Anthony Lake and National Security Adviser Samuel Berger.
Each of these individuals has remarkable qualities of intellect, energy and leadership. All are committed to work together as a team that will rise above partisanship and rise to the challenges of meeting the opportunities, dealing with the challenges that we all face. . . .
MADELEINE K. ALBRIGHT Mr. President, I am deeply honored by your decision to nominate me for secretary of state. During the past four years under your leadership and that of Vice President Gore, we have had a skilled and successful foreign policy team. I'm confident as I look at my colleagues today that you have assembled a first-rate team for the next four.
To Secretary Christopher, I want to express my gratitude on behalf of all of us who have worked with you for your steady nerves, prudent judgment and great wisdom. I can only hope that my heels can fill your shoes.
I am also pleased beyond measure that President Clinton has asked with my enthusiastic support that my close friend Strobe Talbott stay on as Deputy Secretary. And I've asked him to begin work immediately as head of my transition team.
To my daughters, Alice, Katie and Anne -- who is here -- all I can say is that all your lives I've worried about where you were and what you were up to. Now, you will have the chance to worry about me.
To my colleagues in the Department of State, I hope I can communicate even a small measure of the excitement and determination that I feel. Together with the men and women of our armed forces -- the finest military in the world -- we have a job to do: to defend American interest, maintain key alliances, forge new friendships and insure for the American people a future of steadily increasing prosperity and steadily decreasing danger.
To America's friends and allies abroad, I say that the future depends on our keeping our commitments to each other. We live in an era without power blocks in which old assumptions must be re-examined, institutions modernized and relationships transformed.
If we are to master events rather than be mastered by them, we must be forward looking in our thinking and flexible in our tactics. But we need not -- and must not -- diverge from the core values of democracy and respect for human dignity that have long guided our nation, and made American leadership not only possible but welcome in so many parts of the world. . . .
As you've said, I was not born in this country. Because of my parents' love of democracy, we came to America after being driven twice from our home in Czechoslovakia -- first by Hitler and then by Stalin.
Because of this nation's kindness, we were granted political asylum. And I have had the opportunity to live my life among the most generous and courageous people on earth.
The story of my family has been repeated in millions of variations over two centuries in the lives not only of immigrants but of those overseas who have been liberated or sheltered by American soldiers empowered by American assistance or inspired by American ideals.
As the history of this century and the story of my life bear witness, the United States is, as the President has said, truly the world's indispensable nation.
It is our shared task, with the help of friends from around the globe and of God, to uphold this proud standard in the years immediately ahead and into the next century.
WILLIAM S. COHEN Mr. President and Mr. Vice President, when I announced my retirement from the Senate back in January, I had looked forward with a great deal of enthusiasm to the new challenges I might face as a private citizen. And until a few weeks ago, I had no idea that the challenges might include further public service.
At that time, President Clinton talked to me about his vision of a bipartisan approach to our national security policy, and he asked if I would consider being part of a very strong team to put that vision into place.
I must say that my entire Congressional career has been devoted to pursuing a national security policy that is without partisanship, and so the scenario that the President had presented to me was one that I could look forward with great enthusiasm to supporting.
I think there is legitimate debate over specific spending issues and other types of programs within our national security apparatus. But our policy, at all costs, must be unified when it comes down to those crucial moments when the nation is in need.
As Vice President Gore has often said, "In a democracy, consensus itself is a strategic asset." And to the extent that I can make a contribution in helping to forge such a consensus, then I'm eager to serve in one of the most demanding positions in our Government.
The team of Secretary Christopher -- I want to commend Secretary Christopher for his indefatigable efforts in the Middle East in particular, but for being such an outstanding Secretary of State.
Secretary Perry, I cannot praise you enough. I think that, without question, you've been one of the finest public servants we've ever had in this country, and I consider it a distinct honor to be following in your footsteps, as large as they are.
Director Deutch and I have worked together -- I was serving on the Senate intelligence oversight committee -- and I must say that he has made an enormous contribution to the intelligence community.
Each of them, and in combination as a team, has laid a foundation for the capable management of these issues, and I look forward with great anticipation to being part of a new team that consists of Ambassador Albright, Sandy Berger and Tony Lake to forge a truly bipartisan consensus on the security of our nation and that of our allies. . . .
ANTHONY LAKE When the President and I discussed a few weeks ago the prospect of my becoming director of central intelligence I was, to put it mildly, very enthusiastic. Over the last four years I have launched my mornings and I have finished my evenings with the briefs and analyses of the intelligence community. And I firmly believe in the post-cold-war world the role of the C.I.A. is more important than ever in defending Americans against the threats of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, in explaining clearly the activities of governments in an ever more complicated world, and in giving the President the unvarnished facts on which he can base wise decisions in a time of change and promise.
I have tremendous admiration for the men and women of the intelligence community. And in particular I want to say and emphasize what a wonderful job John Deutch has done over almost the past two years now in leading that community. His shoes are large, both figuratively and literally. And I am very much welcoming the challenge of following in his footsteps. Now, this is a size triple E job, and I look forward to it very much.
SAMUEL BERGER . . . I am delighted to be part of this team. It brings diverse talents and seasoned judgment to the challenges America faces, with a strong sense of America's national interests and a deep commitment to America's values.
Mr. President, I believe it will serve you and the nation well.
Finally, let me say that I believe the President has laid a very strong foundation over the past four years for meeting the challenges and opportunities of this new chapter in America's great journey. Working with our allies to create a united and democratic Europe for the first time in history, built around a strong and expanding NATO and in partnership with a democratic Russia.
Reconciling our geography with our history by building our indispensable link to the east as a great Asia-Pacific power.
Prudently but proudly seizing the inescapable reality that America today is the indispensable force for peace in the world, whether in Bosnia, the Middle East or elsewhere.
Sharpening our focus on the web of new security challenges: terrorism, drugs, rogue states and the environment.
And embarking on the historic work of creating a new international economic architecture for expanding trade and creating America jobs in the global economy.
Mr. President, I look forward to working with these very talented people, and with the continued patience and love of my wife and my kids, to help you fulfill your vision over the next four years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS APPOINTMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); POLITICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (AMB); COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEN); LAKE, ANTHONY; BERGER, SAMUEL BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



116 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: School Data Offer a Tale of Two Districts

BYLINE: By MELODY PETERSEN 

DATELINE: MANVILLE, N.J., Dec. 5

 BODY:
In most school districts in New Jersey, the test results of high school juniors change little from one year to the next. The top schools usually stay on top, give or take a change in ranking of one or two places, and the same schools rank at the bottom.
That is why the performance of high schools in two working-class towns -- Harrison, in Hudson County, and Manville, in Somerset County -- stands out in the mountain of statistics released on Wednesday by the State Board of Education. In both districts, the results of the tests administered statewide show significant changes during the last three years, with the scores in Harrison steadily rising, while in Manville, they have just as steadily dropped. 
 The reason the test scores in the two districts have headed in opposite directions is not as simple as comparing their spending per student, which in Harrison is $8,406 and in Manville, $7,763; or their average class size, which is 17 in Harrison and 22 in Manville.
But those numbers tell part of the story. State education officials caution that since both are small districts, the test results can vary significantly if only a handful of students are out sick on test day. People in those school districts offered their own reasons for the numbers.
In Harrison, a tiny factory town between Newark and Jersey City, the teachers talked excitedly today about the recent changes in their classrooms that they believe are behind their students' success. Class sizes have been getting slightly smaller, they say. Students write in every class, even mathematics, and teachers begin preparing students to pass the test needed for graduation long before they first take it in October of their junior year.
Jayne Guenther, a Harrison High teacher, explained how she begins her basic writing class each day by getting her students to imagine how good they will feel when they pass the High School Proficiency Test needed to graduate.
"They say to a neighbor, every day at the start of class, 'I will pass the H.S.P.T. test and so will you,' " Ms. Guenther said. "I ask them how it's going to feel when they do pass the H.S.P.T., and when they finally do go into the test, they come in with a lot of self-confidence."
In Manville, a town still recovering from the closing of its large Johns-Manville factory in 1986, teachers and administrators said they were still unsure what had gone wrong.
Manville's poor performance -- only 57 percent of high school juniors passed the test in October 1995 -- may be due to the school's becoming more crowded, the teachers said. Or, they said, it may be because the students simply did not try as hard as they had in years before.
"They really didn't see an urgency to take the test seriously," said Len Marciano, a teacher who supervisors Manville High's English classes. "The skills are there. I think it is just the students' motivation."
While a smaller percentage of students in Harrison than in Manville had passed the test in 1993, the schools' results are now reversed. At Harrison High School, 68 percent of high school juniors passed the test in 1995, up from 58 percent in 1994 and 48 percent in 1993.
In Manville, the 1995 figure was 57 percent, down from 70 percent in 1994 and 79 percent in 1993.
Statewide, over three-quarters of juniors passed the test on their first try in October 1995. Results have not yet been released for the tests administered in October 1996.
For years, Harrison school officials have been under pressure from state education officials to raise their scores.
"I think historically speaking, our expectations were a little low," said Vincent Franco, the Harrison school district's curriculum director. But then, he said, the school began pushing its students harder.
In 1991, the district used new state aid to reduce class sizes from about 30 students in each class, officials said, to 20 to 25 in each class.
"My granddaughter lives in Newark and she goes into a class with 36 kids," Mr. Franco said. "You can't tell me that you can be just as effective teaching 36 kids as 20 kids."
Teachers now also emphasize writing in every class. Math students keep a daily journal in which they explain how they solved problems.
"They know when there's something that they're going to have to pay attention to," said Joseph Cucci, a math teacher, "because they're going to have to put it in writing."
Teachers in Manville -- many of whom grew up there, graduated from its schools and have taught in the town for many years -- said today that they would meet soon to analyze the test results to see where students seem to be lacking.
Next year, they plan to make more space for high school students by moving seventh and eighth graders into a separate school.
Some of those teachers and administrators said changes in the town's population and economy were to blame for the falling test scores. The town of 10,000 is still recovering from the 1986 closure of Johns-Manville factory, from which the town takes its name.
The red brick high school was built in 1957, when the schools were filled with the children of factory employees. But enrollment dropped when the company declared bankruptcy and hundreds of residents lost their jobs.
Ned Panfile, the vice principal of Manville High School, said young families are now moving into Manville because of the town's affordable apartments and single-family homes. But longtime residents have been unwilling to pay more in taxes, he said.
"The problem is that we have a lot of senior citizens who are strapped," Mr. Panfile said. But he added that school officials took the test scores seriously. "We're not making any excuses," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: State test scores for juniors in Harrison, N.J., have gone up in recent years, partly because teachers begin preparing students before the test. Charles Ramsthaler, standing, a teacher, helped Jose Nazario yesterday. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: JOHNS MANVILLE CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; HARRISON (NJ); MANVILLE (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; FINANCES EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); STATISTICS (75%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); 

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



117 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Productivity Declined in 3d Quarter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
Productivity, which measures the time, effort and cost of providing goods and services, fell a revised three-tenths of 1 percent in the third quarter, the first decline since late last year, the Labor Department reported today. The same report contained indications of a rise in labor costs.
In a separate report today, the department said first-time jobless claims fell last week by 8,000, to 336,000 -- in line with expectations. 
 The less volatile four-week average of new claims edged up for the week ended Nov. 23 to 337,750 from 336,750.
Together the reports contain hints that price pressures could return as the economy rebounds from its third-quarter slump, analysts said.
"Inflationary pressures remain modest, but are bubbling just below the surface, given the low unemployment rate and the lack of any improvement in productivity," said John Williams, chief economist at BT Securities in New York.
An important aspect of the productivity report is the unit cost of labor, which measures wages. That component rose an unrevised 3.7 percent in the third quarter from 3.3 percent in the second quarter.
A separate measure showed compensation per hour rose 1.1 percent in the third quarter, after adjustment for inflation, up from a one-tenth of 1 percent rise in the second quarter.
Many economists contend the Government's productivity reports understate actual economic activity, but all agree that gains in productivity are crucial for businesses to stay competitive and keep their prices from increasing.
Rising production amid tame inflation has allowed the Federal Reserve to leave interest rates alone at their last six policy meetings.
The Federal Reserve's policy-setting committee meets once more this year, on Dec. 17, and no change in rates is expected.
But producing more without charging more may become difficult. With the unemployment rate hovering at low levels, businesses have been forced to pay more to attract job applicants. That has many analysts watching for an impending increase in labor costs, which account for two-thirds of consumer prices.
The Labor Department will release its monthly employment report for November on Friday, including a calculation of average hourly earnings for the month.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) INTECHNOLOGY PLC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY PRODUCTIVITY (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); EMPLOYMENT (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (75%); INTEREST RATES (68%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



118 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Power, Not Prices

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY 

 BODY:
When Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani talks about letting enormous supermarkets and other big warehouse-style outlets open in the city's manufacturing areas, he invokes images of spacious and well-stocked stores that offer fabulously low prices.
And when City Council members raise objections to the Mayor's plan, they point to the small businesses that the megastores could put out of business and to the residents who fear being cut out of the approval process. 
 But as attempts to reach a compromise plan fell apart amid bitter finger-pointing this week, consumer choice and local business vitality were far from central to the discussions. Instead, the cause of the impasse came down to questions of power at City Hall.
When the City Charter was revised in 1989, the Council, which had long been considered a powerless body that did little more than approve changes in street names, was given the power to approve the city's budget and -- just as significant -- vote on land use policy and zoning changes. But the Mayor's proposal posed a critical threat to that power, because it would have allowed the superstores to be built "as of right" -- bureaucratic language that means without the Council's consent.
And even though the Mayor's aides had told the Council's negotiators that they were willing to give its members some control over previously unregulated large stores, those assurances were ultimately not enough to surmount the Council's inherent mistrust of the administration or its insecurity over the balance of power that almost always favors the Mayor's office.
"Since the charter revision, the Council has become very protective of its powers," said Mitchell L. Moss, director of New York University's Urban Research Center. "And land use is one area where they have enormous authority, and they're not about to give it up because it's also one of the few areas where they can respond to both their constituents and interest groups."
Although the Mayor and Peter F. Vallone, the Council Speaker, spoke several times yesterday, serious negotiations did not resume. Administration officials said yesterday that they still hoped to reach a compromise in the next two weeks, but the depth of the impasse could make a deal impossible until next year, several Council leaders said.
And if that happens, the entire approval process will have to begin anew -- a process that could last six months to a year and thus get entangled in the Mayor's re-election bid.
Since 1974, supermarkets and discount retailers have been prohibited from building in manufacturing zones without first obtaining a special permit. In the hours before two important Council committees unanimously rejected the Mayor's proposal Wednesday night, Council officials had grudgingly agreed to allow such stores to open without Council approval -- but only in exchange for gaining control over developments that are not now regulated, including giant hardware stores like Home Depot and toy stores like Toys "R" Us.
Negotiations finally broke down when administration officials offered a plan that, while meeting some of the Council's concerns and significantly scaling back the Mayor's plan, would delay the Council's desired control over the unregulated businesses until the Planning Commission could vote on the changes, which could also take up to a year.
"We were prepared to sign guarantees and memorandums with them, because we always wanted to have both pieces, too," said Fran Reiter, Deputy Mayor for Economic Development.
"There are people on the City Council who want to see more superstores open in the city. But there are also some who don't want this to happen because they don't want to give up their power and/or are beholden to special interests."
Mr. Vallone responded testily that special interests "had nothing to do with the issue" and added, "I haven't seen a lobbyist in my office yet."
He attributed the superstore stalemate to "an honest disagreement" over what kinds of changes could be made to the Mayor's proposal without sending the plan back to the Planning Commission for approval. The commission, which has jurisdiction over changes in zoning rules, has approved the Mayor's plan but not the Council's suggested changes.
But Mayor Giuliani said the disagreement had more to do with the Council's attempts to reduce his plan beyond what he felt was reasonable than with misunderstandings over technical and legal issues. "That's a smokescreen that's being used, probably artful, to try to blow up the negotiations," he said.
The Mayor said that he had agreed to many of the Council's changes, but that the Council was insisting on too much. "We were at the point of reducing it so significantly that it would have done no good," he said.
Mr. Giuliani's plan would have allowed an estimated 57 superstores, as large as 200,000 square feet each, to open across the city. The Council had proposed revisions that would have reduced the number of stores to about 25, each of no more than 125,000 square feet. Council officials said the administration was trying to raise the size limit to 140,000 square feet and restore about 12 of the Mayor's original sites when talks ended.
Mr. Vallone said that the Council's reluctance to accept the Mayor's promise that the Planning Commission would eventually agree to the Council's changes had nothing to do with the Council's ability to trust the Mayor. "I certainly trust the Mayor, but that's not the point," he said.
Agreeing to wait six months before the Council received control over currently unregulated megastores "would be like negotiating a union package and saying we'll give you the raise now and six months from now you'll vote on whether you'll give any givebacks to pay for the raise. It doesn't work that way. No negotiations do."
Pamela J. Fairclough, a spokeswoman for the Community Food Resource Center, which has endorsed the Mayor's proposal because it would encourage large supermarkets to open in the city, said she was dismayed that negotiations over such an important issue had dissolved so quickly. "It's quite clear that both sides want this," she said, "so they should just get down to business and do it."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CITY COUNCILS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ZONING (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); BUDGETS (71%); POLITICS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); 

PERSON: TOY, VIVIAN S; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



119 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Wider Limits Planned for Trading Halts

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The New York Stock Exchange yesterday proposed a small change in the circuit breakers that would halt trading in all stock markets in the United States if share prices plunged. The change would make the circuit breakers less restrictive than they are now, but far tighter than they were when they were introduced in 1988.
The move came on a day when share prices were mixed, but the Dow Jones industrial average managed a gain of 14.16 points after suffering a net loss of nearly 99 points during two hectic days. 
 The new circuit breaker limits, which need approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission before they go into effect, would call for trading to halt for 30 minutes if the Dow average fell 350 points during the day's session. After trading resumed, it would continue unless and until the Dow was down 550 points for the day, at which time it would be halted for an hour. If trading was able to resume after that, as it would be if the second halt occurred before 3 P.M., there would be no limit on how far prices could fall during the remainder of the day.
The current limits, which will remain in effect until the S.E.C. acts, are 250 points and 400 points.
The S.E.C., which had been putting pressure on the Big Board to expand the circuit breakers, is expected to approve the increase on the theory that it is better than nothing, but to ask the New York and other exchanges to broaden them further. When the limits of 250 and 400 points went into effect in 1988, they represented declines of 11.7 and 18.7 percent, respectively. The Dow has about tripled since then, and the proposed new limits, equaling 5.4 and 8.5 percent, respectively, are less than half as large as the old ones were originally.
Most market indexes broader than the Dow ended lower yesterday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.72 point, to 744.38, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.48 point, to 392.75.
But the Nasdaq composite index rose 3.10 points, to 1,300.12, just shy of a record high. Stocks for the most part withstood a selloff in the bond market that drove the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond -- a benchmark for consumer and corporate interest rates -- up sharply to 6.50 percent, from 6.39 percent on Wednesday.
Philip Morris rose 329/64 , to 107 7/8, contributing 8 points to the Dow's gain. Other Dow components that gained included Alcoa, which rose 1 7/8, to 64 3/8, and DuPont, up 1 7/8, to 97 7/8. Shares of oil companies were higher, bolstered by a surge in crude oil prices. Texaco gained 1 1/4, to 100 3/8; Exxon rose 1 1/8, to 95, and Chevron edged up 5/8, to 65 3/4.
Compaq Computer rose 2 3/8, to 84 1/4, after Deutsche Morgan Grenfell raised its earnings estimates for the company. Great Lakes Chemical lost 2 7/8, to 49 1/8, a day after it forecast flat 1997 results.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); ALCOA INC (50%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



120 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: THE SECOND TERM: Man in the News;
A Trusted Adviser, and a Friend: Samuel Richard Berger

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
Of the four newly chosen members of his national security team, President Clinton hugged only one before the cameras today: Samuel R. Berger, the rumpled, shaggy-browed lawyer Mr. Clinton named as national security adviser.
Mr. Berger, who has served for the last four years as deputy to Anthony Lake, the departing security adviser, brings unusually strong political credentials and practical trade expertise to a position usually filled by advisers like Henry A. Kissinger or Colin L. Powell, men steeped in theories of global strategy or trained on battlefields. 
 He also brings a close, comfortable relationship with the President he will brief at 9:15 weekday mornings. Their friendship dates to a rally at the Alamo in 1972, when both worked for George S. McGovern's Presidential campaign.
"We have known each other since we were about half our present age," Mr. Clinton said today, before wryly reflecting on how old that made them. "I hate that," he said. Mr. Berger is 10 months older.
Mr. Clinton continued: "I have looked to him for advice and counsel on foreign policy and on many other issues, as well, over the years."
During the 1996 campaign, when Mr. Clinton's closest political counselors convened one evening each week, Mr. Berger was the only foreign policy adviser present.
First in 1987 and then in 1991, Mr. Berger, then a lawyer in Washington, was among a small group of friends who urged Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas to run for President. During the 1992 campaign, he served as Mr. Clinton's senior foreign policy adviser and helped recruit Mr. Lake and Madeleine K. Albright, whom Mr. Clinton today chose as Secretary of State, to join the Administration.
In an interview, Mr. Berger said his four years as deputy had helped prepare him for the chief advisory role. "I think what I've learned is that our job here is to both try to make sure that the President gets the best, sharpest information he can to make decisions, and that once he does that they're carried out," Mr. Berger said. "Making a decision doesn't necessarily make it happen."
Mr. Berger said that paying attention to domestic politics was an important aspect of his job but not a principal one. "I think that American foreign policy has to make sense to the American people, and I think that means it has to be communicated to them well and it has to strike them as related to their lives," he said.
But, he added, "I think the American people instinctively understand that we have to be engaged in the world even more now than before because their prosperity and their safety depends on it."
As a partner with the Washington law firm Hogan & Hartson, Mr. Berger, who also served under Mr. Lake in President Jimmy Carter's State Department, directed the the firm's international trade group. Among the clients were foreign governments including Poland, Japan and China's trading arm, raising the possibility of conflicts of interest when he oversaw national security in Mr. Clinton's transition into office.
At the time, Mr. Berger said he would walk out of campaign meetings when trade issues arose. He left his law firm when he joined the Administration, and since then he has been a central White House figure in trade disputes with Japan and China.
One official who has worked with Mr. Berger worried today that his foreign policy strengths were weighted too heavily to trade and slighted issues like the military. But other foreign policy experts disagreed, "It was an absolutely fair statement four years ago," said Leslie H. Gelb, president of the Council on Foreign Relations. "It's absolutely unfair now."
As deputy assistant to the President for national security affairs, Mr. Berger, who is known as Sandy, has chaired meetings of deputy secretaries from across the Government on foreign policy questions, immersing himself in the details of foreign policy, several officials said.
Mr. Berger's economic experience, particularly in the Far East, may compensate for Ms. Albright's relative inexperience with such issues. Had he not been appointed national security adviser, he was considered the leading candidate to run the National Economic Council.
Samuel Richard Berger was born on Oct. 28, 1945 and grew up in Millerton, N.Y., where he worked during high school setting pins at a bowling alley. He and his wife, Susan Harrison Berger, have three children, Deborah, Sarah and Alexander.
He is considered an unrepentant workaholic in a White House where some just fake it, a man who works "from dawn to dawn all the time," one colleague said. But he does make time to play -- and, at least in recent years, generally lose -- in a rotisserie baseball league, managing a team called the Berger Kings with his son.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Samuel Richard Berger (Reuters)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MAN IN THE NEWS (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL HOGAN LOVELLS US LLP (58%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS NATIONAL SECURITY (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; BERGER, SAMUEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERGER, SAMUEL R (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) BILL CLINTON (93%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



121 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: N.T.T. Agrees to Split Into 3 Separate Units

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Dec. 6

 BODY:
The Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, the world's largest telephone company, will be broken into three separate units under a plan announced today that would redraw the future of telecommunications in Japan.
In a compromise that resolves a dispute nearly 15 years old, N.T.T. has agreed with the Government to split itself into a long-distance service provider and two regional companies handling local service. All three companies are to be owned by a holding company. 
 As part of the agreement, the long- distance company, which is now confined to providing domestic service, will be allowed to provide international service. The agreement could also make it easier for N.T.T. to take part in alliances with other global phone companies.
Since 1982, the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications has pushed for a breakup of N.T.T. similar to the dismantling that year in the United States of the Bell System. The ministry has argued that such a divestiture will spur competition and innovation and reduce sky-high phone rates.
N.T.T. has resisted a divestiture, saying it would be distracting and costly and would cripple its highly respected research capability.
The new holding company structure, which will probably take until 1999 or 2000 to put into place, is seen as a way for both sides to save face.
Still, analysts say it is doubtful that the competitive playing field will change that much since N.T.T., Japan's dominant service provider, will remain a single company.
"This is like the best-case scenario for N.T.T.," said Eric Gan, an analyst in Tokyo for Goldman, Sachs & Company. The holding company plan will leave intact N.T.T.'s research laboratories.
But at a news conference, Jun-ichiro Miyazu, the president of N.T.T., characterized the restructuring as a substantial shift. "This will create three new independent companies," he said, stressing that the arrangement was distinct from divisions in one company. "That's the greatest difference," he said, "and I think it's a significant difference."
Still, the plan should have one immediate salutary effect on Japan's telecommunications development -- it will end the uncertainty about the structure of Japan's industry, which has made it difficult for companies, including foreign companies that want to enter Japan's market, to plan strategies and investments.
Many of the plan's details are not yet known, so it is difficult to judge how independent the three companies will be. In addition, instituting the agreement will require parliamentary legislation to amend telecommunications laws and to lift a ban on holding companies that is intended to prevent the concentration of too much economic power. Legislation will also be needed to prevent a rise in N.T.T.'s taxes as a result of the restructuring.
In February, an advisory committee to the ministry recommended splitting N.T.T. into a long-distance provider and two independent regional local companies for the eastern and western sections of the nation. A final decision was put off for a year, largely because politicians were divided.
Since then, the tide for a breakup seemed to turn, especially in the face of such announced mergers as that of British Telecommunications and MCI Communications. At a time when such global giants are being formed, it did not seem to make sense to shrink Japan's telecommunications flag-bearer.
BT's planned merger with MCI also created a sense of urgency at N.T.T. to enter the global race. So N.T.T., in effect, agreed to split into subsidiaries to help open the way to enter the international phone business, now dominated by KDD, or Kokusai Denshin Denwa.
Some experts say that whether to break up N.T.T. is not the main issue confronting Japan, which trails the United States and Europe in the introduction of new phone services and computer networks. Instead, they say, the Japanese market should be opened up more.
Tsuruhiko Nambu, a professor of economics at Gakushuin University who recently headed a Government advisory panel on telephone deregulation, said the most important reform would be to allow any company to become a service provider.
"Our report was based on the assumption that deregulation can be enhanced without paying attention to the breakup of N.T.T.," he said. Also important, he added, was assuring that N.T.T. would be fair in allowing cellular telephone companies, cable television companies, long-distance companies and other potential rivals to connect to its local networks so that calls can be completed.
Once a Government-owned monopoly, N.T.T. had revenues of $74.6 billion in its last fiscal year; it was "privatized" in 1985, though the Government still owns two-thirds of the stock. Since then, three companies have been allowed to compete with N.T.T. in long-distance. Indeed, partly to stave off a breakup, N.T.T. has been lowering long-distance rates, letting rivals gain access to its network and vowing to cut costs.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: NTT (NYSE) (93%); NPN (LSE) (93%); 9432 (TSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); TELEPHONE RATES (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



122 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Asian Markets Roiled As Bond Market Dives
The bond market went into its steepest dive in more than three months in heavy trading, after a steady climb for much of the last few weeks. Made nervous by a weaker dollar, many investors sold Treasury securities ahead of today's employment report.
The yield of 6.50 percent on the 30-year Treasury bond was up from 6.39 percent on Wednesday and matched the highest yield in nearly a month. [Page D13.]
 
Asian markets reacted strongly to the bond activity in the United States and to the remarks of Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman. The Nikkei index dropped 3.19 percent and the Hang Seng index was down more than 4 percent in late trading. [Page D6.]
 
Circuit Breaker Shift Sought;
Dow and Nasdaq Make Small Gains
The New York Stock Exchange proposed making the circuit breakers that halt trading when prices plunge less restrictive than they are now -- though still far tighter than when they were introduced in 1988. The Dow industrials gained 14.16 points, closing at 6,437.10, and the Nasdaq composite rose 3.10 points, to 1,300.12; broader averages fell. [D6.]
 
Imported Cars Roaring Back
Japanese and European auto makers have come roaring back to the United States, by cutting prices and increasing rebates, moves made possible by the dollar's surge in the last year. Consequently, Detroit faces its toughest competition since the early 1990's. [A1.]
 
Chrysler Moves Reflect Success
With brisk sales of Jeeps and mini-vans producing a torrent of cash, Chrysler said that it would raise its quarterly dividend, buy back more stock and make management changes to reward executives responsible for its success. Robert A. Lutz, its president, will stay on past the retirement age of 65 as vice chairman. [D3.]
 
Nippon Telephone to Restructure
In a restructuring that would reshape Japanese telecommunications, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone agreed to split into a long-distance service provider and two regional companies for local service. [D2.]
 
N.A.S.D. Expels Stratton Oakmont
The N.A.S.D. expelled Stratton Oakmont, the Lake Success, L.I., brokerage firm, from the securities industry, calling it "an ongoing risk to the investing public." Market Place. [D6.]
 
Bells Retreat on Television Plans
Bell Atlantic and Nynex, which plan to merge, are retreating from a key part of their strategy to expand into television through wireless cable technology, according to people familiar with the companies. [D4.]
 
$1.4 Billion Bid on Mexican Rail
A Mexican-United States joint venture bid $1.4 billion for a 50-year concession to operate Mexico's main railroad line. [D2.]
 
Asset Swap for Redwoods Offered
The Federal Government and the State of California offered oil and gas fields, timberland and other property worth at least $380 million in return for a large grove of Northern California redwoods controlled by Maxxam Inc. of Houston. [A18.]
 
Productivity and Jobless Claims Off
Productivity fell a revised three-tenths of 1 percent in the third quarter, and first-time jobless claims fell last week, hinting inflationary pressures could lie ahead. [D2.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,437.10 up 14.16
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.50% up 0.11
The Dollar -- 112.46 yen down 0.61
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows the unemployment rate from May to Oct. (Expected for November: 5.2%) and change in factory orders from April to Sept. (Expected for October: no change)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NTT (NYSE) (53%); NPN (LSE) (53%); 9432 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); RETIREMENT AGE (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); MINIVANS (69%); DIVIDENDS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); WIRELESS CABLE (64%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



123 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Car Companies In United States Hurt by Imports

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 5

 BODY:
Japanese and European auto makers have come roaring back in the United States this autumn, by cutting prices and increasing rebates.
After several years of gradually winning back buyers, American auto makers, particularly General Motors, are facing their toughest competition since the early 1990's. 
 The dollar has risen powerfully, increasing 15.3 percent against the German mark and 41 percent against the Japanese yen since hitting respective lows against them in March and April 1995. This has allowed foreign auto makers to charge fewer dollars for their cars and still convert them into as much or more money in their home currencies.
At the same time, Japanese auto makers are introducing new models that were designed to be assembled at low cost, while luxury European auto makers like Mercedes-Benz are producing less expensive models that compete more directly with Lincoln and Cadillac.
The result of these changes was apparent in November sales. The two biggest Japanese auto makers in the American market, Toyota and Honda, and the two biggest European auto makers, Volkswagen and BMW, all reported sales gains of 13 to 29 percent in November from a year earlier. By contrast, sales for Chrysler rose only 1.4 percent, Ford Motor sales fell 2.2 percent and sales at G.M., which has been hurt by strikes and a slow introduction of new models, dropped 11.8 percent.
All of these foreign and domestic auto makers had similar results in October, with the exception of Chrysler, which did well in the month.
One indication of the significant gains by Japanese auto makers is the race for best-selling car this year. The Ford Taurus is now barely ahead not only of the Honda Accord, a perennial challenger, but also the redesigned Toyota Camry.
For car buyers, the strong dollar and aggressive pricing of foreign auto makers have produced bargains. Lieut. Col. Michael McPhail, a 42-year-old Air Force officer in Colorado Springs, who paid $20,000 for a 1997 Honda Accord EX in October, said that after an extensive search using an Internet buying service, he was convinced that for Japanese cars "the 1996's were more expensive than the 1997's."
Susan M. Miller, a 35-year-old actuary in Glen Mills, Pa., went looking this autumn for clearance sales of 1996 models, but wound up buying a 1997 Toyota Avalon instead after reading articles about how Toyota had redesigned its cars to reduce manufacturing costs. "Even though the car seemed like a better car and they added things to the Camry and the Avalon, the price was down, not up, so you're getting more for your money," she said.
While the more aggressive prices of Japanese auto makers are a boon for buyers, they are creating a serious problem for Detroit auto makers. Japanese auto makers have captured 23.8 percent of the market for cars and light trucks in the current model year, which began Oct. 1. That is up from 22.3 percent in the first two months of the 1996 model year. European auto makers captured 3.6 percent, up from 3 percent in the first two months of the last model year.
While such shifts in market share may seem small, they represent huge sums in the vast auto industry, The gains of 1.5 percentage points for Japanese auto makers in October and November, if sustained through the rest of the model year, is equal to about 225,000 cars, or $4 billion.
Big Three officials acknowledge that competition is growing fiercer. "We've seen more than I would have expected in terms of price aggression by the Japanese in 1996," said G. Mustafa Mohatarem, G.M.'s chief economist. "They responded more quickly to the weakening of the yen than they have in the past."
A comprehensive analysis on Monday by Automotive News, a trade publication, found that Japanese auto makers had raised prices by an average of just $8 a vehicle with the introduction of the 1997 models, while Detroit's Big Three pushed up their prices by an average of $386. A separate analysis issued today by Autofacts International Inc., a market research company in West Chester, Pa., found that Asian auto makers -- including small Korean auto makers -- offered 39 percent larger rebates in November than a year earlier, while European auto makers had more than tripled their rebates.
The rebates were also available on 80.7 percent of the Asian auto makers' new cars, slightly more than a year earlier, and on 58.3 percent of the European cars, up considerably from last year. So the prices buyers actually pay for many foreign cars have actually been dropping.
The American auto makers also raised prices twice as fast as the Japanese did during the 1996 model year, according to Automotive News. The average American increase was $184 compared with an average Japanese increase of $94.
The result has been a narrowing of the price gap between American and Japanese producers. While there have been some signs that the gap in reliability is also narrowing, Japanese auto makers still have a better reputation among many buyers for making high-quality cars.
Bruce S. Fleischer, a 44-year-old teacher in Herndon, Va., said he decided to buy a 1997 Nissan Altima GLE this August after looking at the Ford Taurus.
"The Taurus would have been about the same amount of money, but I don't have the same confidence in it," he said, adding that he and his wife own a 1986 Toyota Corolla and a 1992 Ford Taurus wagon, and are having more repair problems with the Ford than the Toyota.
The dollar is now strong enough that Toyota and Honda, the two Japanese auto makers with the largest shares of the American market, are probably making money on their American operations despite the aggressive pricing. Other Japanese auto makers, notably Nissan, are moving closer to breaking even after years of heavy losses.
While three-fifths of the Japanese-brand cars sold in the United States are assembled in North America, even these cars include foreign parts that account for 10 to 70 percent of the manufacturing cost. A strong dollar makes it cheaper to import these parts. Imports of assembled cars from Japan also leaped 35.7 percent in October and 16.1 percent in September from a year earlier.
At the same time, Japanese auto makers are beginning to introduce many new models that were designed in the early 1990's when it seemed as though the dollar would continue to fall indefinitely. The new cars are cheaper to assemble.
Honda, for example, now offers only two combinations of interiors for its new Prelude this autumn, compared with four last year. Toyota has completely redesigned its Camry so that the front bumper, for example, now has 13 parts instead of 20, making it easier to assemble. And the six clips inside each door that hold the interior paneling are painted instead of plated with nickel, for a savings of 10 cents a clip.
With those changes, Toyota has cut the Camry's price by as much as $600, with the most popular models now costing $16,400 to $20,000. Camry sales in November soared 43 percent from a year earlier, catapulting the model into the competition for the year's best-selling car. Sales of the Accord were up 41 percent and Taurus sales climbed just 9 percent.
Big Three auto executives, particularly at Ford, have tended to dismiss market research that American car buyers feel prices are too high and would rather spend their money on computers and vacations. Foreign auto executives, especially at Japanese companies, have embraced this view.
"There is a certain frustration with the escalation of transportation costs," said J. Davis Illingworth Jr., Toyota's general manager.
After years of especially cautious pricing, Toyota is now the most aggressive, cutting prices for its Toyota division by an average of six-tenths of 1 percent in the last year, and by 2.9 percent in the last year for its Lexus luxury division.
Foreign car makers are still relatively weak in the markets for mini-vans, sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, the most profitable markets for American auto makers. As a result, the latest onslaught has posed a serious problem for G.M., which relies heavily on car sales, and less of a threat to Chrysler, which makes its money on Jeeps and mini-vans. Ford, with sales fairly balanced between cars and other light vehicles, is somewhere in the middle.
G.M.'s market share has fallen swiftly partly because it has cut back sharply on rebates, believing that they cheapen a brand. "We think our products are strong enough that we don't have to get into this price war," said Roy Roberts, the general manager of G.M.'s Pontiac-GMC division.
James P. Holden, Chrysler's executive vice president for sales and marketing, said that while strong Jeep sales had allowed the company to build its market share in the last year, he was concerned that the strong dollar was helping foreign auto makers. "To date it hasn't affected us materially, but certainly it puts them in a markedly better position," he said.
The traditional response from auto makers to such competitive threats by Japan has been to seek Government help, sometimes by filing legal cases with the Commerce Department and the International Trade Commission accusing their rivals of dumping, that is, selling a product for less in a foreign market than in a home market. Even the threat of such cases has prompted the Japanese to avoid aggressive pursuit of United States market share.
But to win the imposition of antidumping tariffs on foreign producers, an American company needs to prove that it has suffered financial injury. The domestic auto makers, which have been posting near record profits because the strong American economy has increased overall auto sales, would have trouble doing so, said Ronald A. Cass, a former vice chairman of the International Trade Commission.
With dumping cases no longer a fear, foreign auto makers are free to pursue larger market shares, said Suzanne Kinsler, an analyst at Autofacts. "Now they can jump out of the closet and say 'Yes, I'm going to offer discounts and yes, I'm going to offer deals, and I don't care who knows,' " she said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "For Car Buyers, Some Price Breaks" shows average car price rises at the start of each model year in dollar and Percentage terms from 1993 to 1997. (Source: Automotive News)(pg. D3)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); HMC (NYSE) (85%); 7267 (TSE) (85%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP ; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; HONDA MOTOR CO; TOYOTA MOTOR CO; MERCEDES-BENZ; VOLKSWAGEN AG; BMW AG; CADILLAC DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP; LINCOLN-MERCURY DIVISION OF FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (91%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (85%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP ; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; HONDA MOTOR CO; TOYOTA MOTOR CO; MERCEDES-BENZ; VOLKSWAGEN AG; BMW AG; CADILLAC DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP; LINCOLN-MERCURY DIVISION OF FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; EUROPE; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ; CURRENCY ; REBATES AUTOMAKERS (94%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); GERMAN MARK (71%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (69%); AIR FORCES (62%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



124 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: THE SECOND TERM: THE OVERVIEW;
ALBRIGHT TO HEAD STATE DEPT.; REPUBLICAN IN TOP DEFENSE JOB

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
President Clinton today announced his selection of Madeleine K. Albright to be Secretary of State as he introduced a national security team for his second term that also includes a prominent Republican to head the Defense Department.
Ms. Albright, 59, the daughter of a Czechoslovak diplomat, would be the first woman ever to serve at the helm of the State Department. 
 As chief delegate to the United Nations, she has evolved into one of the most outspoken and visible members of Mr. Clinton's foreign policy team, having consistently pushed the White House toward a forceful military response to the Serbs in Bosnia, for instance.
For Secretary of Defense, the President chose William S. Cohen, a Maine Republican who is retiring from the Senate. Mr. Cohen, 56, is a moderate with expertise in intelligence and military issues.
The President also named his national security adviser, Anthony Lake, as Director of Central Intelligence. Samuel R. Berger, Mr. Lake's deputy, will succeed him at the National Security Council.
"These new people who will form the national security team, they have the experience, the judgment, the vision to meet the heavy responsibility and the high privilege of leadership," Mr. Clinton said in announcing his nominations in the Oval Office. He said the group would help assure that "America remains the indispensable nation, the world's greatest force for peace."
With the exception of Mr. Berger's selection, all require confirmation by the Senate. But the immediate reaction from members of Congress seemed to presage smooth approval.
Mr. Clinton's choice of Ms. Albright had the bold stroke of history: a woman for a job long considered a male preserve of the Washington power elite. With the Secretary of State fourth in line of Presidential succession, Ms. Albright would become the highest-ranking woman ever to serve in the Federal Government.
The selection of Mr. Cohen, like that of Ms. Albright, was politically significant, making good on Mr. Clinton's promise to govern from the "vital center" and reach out to the Republicans in Congress by putting members of their party in his Administration.
For all the boldness suggested by his choosing a woman for one top national security post and a Republican for another, in foreign policy terms Mr. Clinton followed a safe path, choosing to reshuffle key members of the team he used to mixed effect during his first term. Experts in foreign policy said this was a group of officials better known for pragmatism than for strategic vision. They are also given high marks for political skills and for their loyalty to the President.
"It's not an ideological group," said Leslie H. Gelb, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations. "It's a bunch of pros on policy and politics. Their first task ought to be to help the President define a real agenda for the next four years."
Richard N. Haass, the director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, said: "You don't have any person particularly associated with any approach or doctrine. What you have are in some ways the various tendencies that competed in the first Clinton Administration."
Both Ms. Albright and Mr. Berger are expected to be better at publicly articulating foreign policy than were their predecessors, the courtly Warren Christopher at the State Department and the self-effacing Mr. Lake at the National Security Council. Mr. Cohen is likely to be an asset as well in selling Administration policy to the Republican-controlled Congress.
Ms. Albright's formative political experience was Nazism and Stalinism in a divided Europe: as a child, she fled her native Czechoslovakia when the Nazis invaded in World War II and again after the Communist takeover there. Senior officials say they expect her to be an activist Secretary of State who believes in the positive role of the United States to do good in the world.
Ms. Albright has been more assertive than others in the Administration in advocating the use of American force as a tool of diplomacy, whether in Haiti or Iraq or Bosnia.
She consistently argued for a military response in Bosnia and, along with Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, who will remain Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, pushed the Administration away from the doctrine of the former Chairman, Gen. Colin L. Powell, who favored military intervention, with overwhelming and decisive force, only when vital national interests were at stake and domestic political support was uwavering.
Ms. Albright is a strong proponent of expanding the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a stance that will make her selection reassuring to the Central Europeans. And she announced today that she planned to keep as Deputy Secretary an expert on Russia, Strobe Talbott, a longtime friend of Mr. Clinton. Less certain, because her background has been in Europe, is how she will approach Asia, or economic diplomacy.
In any event, the early reaction from Capitol Hill could hardly have been more favorable. Even Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, the Republican who heads the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and has been a frequent opponent of the President's policies, praised his choices.
"I believe it is a certainty," Mr. Helms said, "that all four of the nominees announced today by the President will be viewed favorably by most senators."
Mr. Clinton's senior advisers first discussed with him the pairing of Ms. Albright at the State Department and Mr. Cohen at Defense at the very first transition meeting, even before his re-election last month.
But it was not until late Wednesday night, after other candidates had risen and fallen and the President had considered an array of combinations, that he summoned his chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, to the kitchen in the residential quarters of the White House to tell him of the decision.
George J. Mitchell, the former Senate Democratic leader, had once been the front-runner for Secretary of State, but lost luster, aides said, when Congressional Republicans described him as too partisan. Richard C. Holbrooke, former Assistant Secretary of State, who negotiated the Bosnia peace accords in Dayton, Ohio, was considered a visionary with potential for great brilliance but also controversy. Senator Sam Nunn, Democrat of Georgia, was also examined, as were numerous candidates for Defense Secretary.
But Mr. Clinton, his advisers say, was looking for teamwork and continuity -- he used the word "team" repeatedly today, as did his nominees. And ultimately he considered Ms. Albright and Mr. Cohen the right combination, particularly because he thought they could sell a bipartisan foreign policy to Republicans on Capitol Hill and persuade them to put money into diplomacy.
Mr. Panetta said today that Mr. Clinton had also been impressed by Ms. Albright's hard-nosed negotiating style at the United Nations. "He felt very comfortable with her ability to be able to sit there, represent the United States and be tough in that negotiation," Mr. Panetta said.
The two other choices fell into place, aides said, because Mr. Clinton had a closer personal chemistry with Mr. Berger than with Mr. Lake and because Mr. Lake came to realize that after four grinding years in the White House, he needed a change. Yet he wanted to remain in the Administration.
The odd man out became John Deutch, the Director of Central Intelligence, who had hoped to become Defense Secretary but is now left without a position in the Administration. Mr. Deutch fell out of favor in the fall when he appeared on Capitol Hill in the closing months of the Presidential campaign and said that after the recent United States missile strikes against Iraq, Saddam Hussein had only become stronger politically.
During Mr. Clinton's deliberations, women's groups met twice with Vice President Al Gore, urging that women receive serious consideration for high-ranking jobs. They handed over a list of candidates, including Ms. Albright.
But Mr. Clinton, who four years ago stressed diversity in building his Cabinet, denied today that Ms. Albright's being a woman had been a factor in her selection. Still, he could not resist reveling for a moment in his ground-breaking step.
"Am I proud that I got a chance to appoint the first woman Secretary of State?" he said. "You bet I am.
"My mama's smiling down at me right now," he said of Virginia Kelley, who died in 1994.
"But that is not why I appointed her," he added.
Ms. Albright, who more than a decade ago helped prepare Geraldine A. Ferraro, the first female Vice-Presidential nominee of a major party, on how to face down doubts about women's abilities in foreign policy, made her own small joke about her pathfinding status. Referring to her predecessor, Mr. Christopher, she said, "I can only hope my heels will fill your shoes."
With the leading members of Mr. Clinton's foreign policy team now selected, the President can move on to other Cabinet appointments. Erskine B. Bowles, who is succeeding Mr. Panetta as chief of staff, said that the President now had a list of names before him for every Cabinet vacancy and that all nominees should be chosen by the new year.
Officials said Mr. Holbrooke, edged out for Secretary of State, remained a candidate to succeed Ms. Albright at the United Nations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton shook hands with William S. Cohen, his choice for Secretary of Defense, after the announcements in the Oval Office yesterday. Leon E. Panetta, the chief of staff, escorted Madeleine K. Albright, who will be nominated for Secretary of State, from the room. (Pool photograph by James A. Parcell)(pg. B6); Madeleine K. Albright at the White House with President Clinton after her selection as Secretary of State. (Reuters)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT ; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT ; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ; NATIONAL SECURITY; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WOMEN (77%); RANKINGS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEN); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (AMB); BERGER, SAMUEL R; LAKE, ANTHONY ; MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (94%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



125 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: With No Tailpipe But Much Fanfare, A New Car Arrives

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 5

 BODY:
With all the klieg-light hoopla and hype of a Hollywood premiere, the first electric car to be mass-produced in this country in modern times went on sale here today, a sleek, whisper-quiet little two-seater packed with state-of-the-art batteries and the nation's hopes for an end to tailpipe pollution and heavy dependence on foreign oil.
"What you have here is the beginning of a revolution," said Don Devlin, a retired film producer and writer, as he took possession of a car and, with the punch of a button and the pull of a lever, hum-m-m-ed out into the gridlock and smog of the one American city that is more car-crazed than even Detroit. 
 His car, the EV1, was developed by the General Motors Corporation at the not-so-gentle nudging of government pollution agencies and carries a price tag of $34,000 -- though for now it can only be leased, at a cost of about $500 a month, plus $50 a month for a recharge kit. It was one of four dozen EV1's delivered throughout the day to proud new owners by G.M. dealers scattered throughout California and Arizona, the initial sales test region.
What each lessee got was an elongated, oval-shaped vehicle that has the basic appearance of just another sporty coupe but, in fact, is unlike any sport coupe made anywhere.
No combustion powers this car, only banks of batteries. They can push it from 0 to 60 miles per hour in a more-than-respectable nine seconds and then can maintain that pace, or an even greater speed, until the car has traveled the not-so-respectable distance of 90 miles or so. At that point, the driver must stop at a 220-volt outlet for an even less respectable three-hour recharge.
Like its exterior, the interior of the car seems conventional enough at first glance -- digital dash, gearshift, standard accelerator, power windows, air conditioning. But closer inspection reveals that there is no car key, only a key pad. The only positions on the stick shift are forward and reverse, and the digital dash measures not fuel remaining in the tank, but the charge left in the batteries and the rate that charge is being depleted.
"Fascinating, absolutely fascinating," Mr. Devlin marveled as he circled his new acquisition, carefully inspecting it bumper to bumper (except that it has no bumpers), neglecting only the de rigueur kick of the tires. Was he put off by the $550 monthly outlay for the lease and recharger, a relatively high cost for a small two-seater? And what of the car's limited travel radius and lengthy recharge time?
"Well," he responded cheerily, "somebody has to go first, and electricity costs less than half what gas costs. Besides, the state gives you a tax break for using these cars."
Other major car makers, among them Toyota, Honda and perhaps Ford, are expected to follow with their versions of the EV1 in a year or so, providing the G.M. version catches on, particularly in California.
A few years back, it was California, concerned about its growing smog problem, that boldly mandated that by the year 2003 at least 10 percent of all cars sold in the state be electrically powered. Other states subsequently explored adopting such mandates, and the Federal Government has encouraged development of nonpolluting cars. But under heavy pressure from the petroleum industry and from many of the major auto makers, those states and Washington stopped well short of the California mandate.
In fact, California backed off a bit, keeping its 2003 deadline for a 10 percent sales level but eliminating interim percentage requirements.
Still, a few auto makers, most notably General Motors, saw economic opportunity in the Golden State mandate and went to work. Eventually G.M. risked a hefty $350 million for development of the EV1, finally coming up with the model that hit showroom floors today after being shipped from a brand new assembly line in Lansing, Mich.
"You don't -- you can't -- just surrender the huge California market because there's a tough electric car requirement facing you," said Don Crowder, an area market manager for the Saturn division of General Motors, the division handling the EV1 leases.
Starting today, G.M. began a major advertising campaign for the new vehicle. Executives said they were leasing the car rather than selling it at this point because they believe the technology will advance so fast that in three years, people will want a newer model.
According to local Saturn dealers, many of the first buyers of the EV1 were either people deeply concerned about air pollution -- Mr. Devlin suffers from smoker's emphysema -- or people who like being the first on their block to acquire a newly developed product. In Los Angles, being first is no small consideration.
"O.K., I confess I can't wait to show off this cool machine," said Alexandra Paul, one of the beach beauties of the "Baywatch" television series, as she stood beaming next to her newly delivered EV1. "I started out as an electric car freak because I'm so deeply worried about the environment. In fact, I've had two electric cars before, both custom made. But this one -- this one is just the coolest, and I can't wait to show it off all over town."
But will the EV1 and the other electric cars to follow catch on with the American public as a whole? And, more to the point, will 1 of every 10 cars that are on the road in California come the year 2003 be an electric car?
"That's a tough call," said Russell E. Hand, the president of Saturn Airport Marina, the dealership where Mr. Delvin and Ms. Paul leased their EV1's. "There's always the possibility the law might be lightened up. But if it isn't, then in the end it will be up to the car makers to come up with products that will sell, that will give you more for your money, will run farther and longer on a better charge and will be roomier and will operate anywhere, including in really cold places that are especially tough on batteries."
He paused and looked about at the crowd milling around his showroom and outdoor display lot. "The better, easier, more convenient charge -- that's especially crucial," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The General Motors Corporation yesterday became the first major auto maker to market electric cars. One of the company's EV1 cars was charged at the Saturn Airport Marina dealership in Los Angeles. (Luis Sinco for The New York Times)(pg. A36)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GMP (PAR) (91%); GMB (BRU) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; AIR POLLUTION; EVI (ELECTRIC CAR) MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); LIGHT POLLUTION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); SMOG (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); 

PERSON: DEVLIN, DAN; AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996



126 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Redecorating the City

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A Dec. 4 news article on new newsstands, toilets and other such street "furniture" for New York City leads me to suggest that the city undertake a serious review of the contract.
In 1995, residents of and visitors to Madrid witnessed the installation of new street furniture that was modeled after cylindrical kiosks in Paris but was made of cheaper materials and served to bombard everyone with advertising. Lisbon followed suit, and now both Iberian capitals are crowded with furniture that only gets in the way of already dense urban streetscapes. 
 Street furniture can be attractive and can contribute to an improved quality of life, if not to civic pride. Because New York desperately needs better-looking streets, choosing the right "furniture" to adorn them should be a priority matter of urban policy.
 
JESUS ESCOBAR
Southport, Conn., Dec. 5, 1996
 
The writer is an assistant professor of art history, Fairfield University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); PORTUGAL (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MADRID, SPAIN (93%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS FURNITURE INC (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; MADRID (SPAIN); LISBON (PORTUGAL); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); PORTUGAL (54%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MADRID, SPAIN (93%); 

SUBJECT: TOILETS; NEWSDEALERS AND NEWSSTANDS; STREETS NEWSSTANDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%); ART HISTORY (50%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: ESCOBAR, JESUS (ASST PROF)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



127 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Tumbles After Comments By Greenspan, Then Rebounds

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar dropped, then rebounded yesterday, echoing the seesaw behavior of stocks and bonds after Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, unsettled the markets by publicly wondering if they were overvalued.
The gyrations left the dollar mixed by the end of the day, but little changed from levels 24 hours earlier. 
 "We had a pretty volatile day," said Frank Conte, chief trader at the Royal Bank of Canada's New York branch. "Greenspan came out of left field and that's basically what drove us today."
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar settled at 1.5463 German marks, down from 1.5516 marks on Thursday and at 112.89 Japanese yen, up from 112.46 yen. The British pound rose to $1.6466 from $1.6332.
The dollar initially fell sharply in Asian trading after Mr. Greenspan said in a speech Thursday night that he saw "irrational exuberance" in the stock and bond markets, suggesting he thought they were too high.
The remarks set off a global selloff that initially wrenched down United States bond prices and caused a 145-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average. Falling American securities prices can hurt the dollar by easing demand for the currency.
"We were just seeing a bailout of American assets," said Ralph Delzenero, vice president of foreign-exchange marketing at First National Bank of Chicago. "Bonds were getting socked, stocks were getting socked, so the dollar got socked."
But stocks and bonds began to recover when the Labor Department reported an unexpected rise in November unemployment to a four-month high, suggesting the economy was slowing. The Dow Jones average ended down 55.16 points, to 6,381.94, and bond prices ended little changed.
Some traders said the dollar's weakness against the mark might have reflected comments from the president of the Bundesbank, Hans Tietmeyer, who suggested that further interest rate reductions in Germany would have little effect on the German economy and could actually be harmful.
Mr. Tietmeyer's remarks to a German Chamber of Commerce meeting came a day after the central bank left interest rates unchanged at its regular meeting, despite new evidence of weakness in the German economy. Lower rates would tend to diminish the value of the mark.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RY (TSX) (72%); RY (SWX) (72%); RY (NYSE) (72%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (72%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (91%); BONDS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BRITISH POUND (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



128 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Excerpt From the Speech by Greenspan

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Following is an excerpt from a speech by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, given at a dinner in Washington sponsored by the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research on Thursday night:
But where do we draw the line on what prices matter? Certainly prices of goods and services now being produced -- our basic measure of inflation -- matter. But what about futures prices or more importantly prices of claims on future goods and services, like equities, real estate or other earning assets? Are stability of these prices essential to the stability of the economy? 
 Clearly, sustained low inflation implies less uncertainty about the future, and lower risk premiums imply higher prices of stocks and other earning assets. We can see that in the inverse relationship exhibited by price-earnings ratios and the rate of inflation on the past. But how do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values, which then become subject to unexpected and prolonged contractions as they have in Japan over the past decade? And how do we factor that assessment into monetary policy? We as central bankers need not be concerned if a collapsing financial asset bubble does not threaten to impair the real economy, its production, jobs and price stability. Indeed, the sharp stock market break of 1987 had few negative consequences for the economy. But we should not underestimate or become complacent about the complexity of the interactions of asset markets and the economy. Thus, evaluating shifts in balance sheets generally, and in asset prices particularly, must be an integral part of the development of monetary policy.
The public examination of Federal Reserve actions extends well beyond our stewardship of monetary policy. Our overall management of the Federal Reserve System should, and does, come under considerable scrutiny by the Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (91%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); FUTURES (71%); BONDS (71%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



129 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Raid on Illegal Housing Shows the Plight of Suburbs' Working Poor

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

DATELINE: HICKSVILLE, L.I., Dec. 6

 BODY:
Carmen Delgado was dressing her three daughters for a trip to the shopping mall when a contingent of police officers and building inspectors burst into her apartment.
They opened all the doors, removed some ceiling tiles and photographed the premises, she recalled. "They said we had to get out that night," Mrs. Delgado said. 
 Their home, it turned out, was illegal. So were the neighboring apartments in the complex, crowded with nearly 100 immigrants. Years ago, a landlord had ignored the town zoning code and carved the makeshift dwellings out of vacant offices in the hodgepodge of one- and two-story buildings behind and next to Antun's catering hall on Old Country Road. Town officials said they were unaware of the apartments until someone complained last year.
Since the surprise inspection last month, the town has not enforced its ultimatum, but half of the tenants have gone. The Delgados, who are from Mexico, are among those who have remained, but they have packed many of their belongings in cardboard boxes and plastic garbage bags, ready for a quick departure.
But they do not know where they will go. High rents on Long Island mean initial payments of $5,000 or more to cover the first month's rent, security deposit and broker's fee, money the tenants say they do not have.
Their plight has focused attention on an old but worsening problem here: the scarcity of moderately priced housing for people who work as cashiers, stockroom clerks, gasoline station attendants and other low-paying jobs in the suburbs.
"We are turning our backs on the low-income people working in our communities," said Marge Rogatz, president of the nonprofit Community Advocates in Nassau County.
"We need them to run all kinds of enterprises," she said, "but we're perfectly willing to have them come to work from living in a place we don't want to know about."
All of the tenants in the raided Hicksville complex belong to working families; the county Social Services Department says none of them are on welfare. But by suburban standards, they are living on the edge. Tomas Caceres said he takes home $250 a week from his factory job in Farmingdale. Another resident makes a similar income at a nearby C-Town supermarket.
Yet a check of apartment listings in Nassau County shows that there are almost none for under $900 a month, and very few under $1,000 a month. "People making anything close to the minimum wage cannot begin to find a place to live," Ms. Rogatz said.
The solution for the Delgados and their relatives had been to pool their income to pay $2,700 a month to house 15 people in an office suite converted into seven tiny bedrooms, two small kitchens and two bathrooms, one with a row of three sinks.
The former reception area, with a television set and tattered brown couch, serves as a common living room. The carpet is threadbare and matted from the constant foot traffic along the narrow hallway. The walls are scuffed, and on one hangs an inexpensive tapestry depicting the Last Supper. Outside, the parking lot serves as the yard and playground.
The tenants, who found the complex through word of mouth, all came from Latin America. That is not a coincidence, Ms. Rogatz said, because immigrants fill many entry-level jobs and have an especially hard time finding housing because of discrimination and the language barrier.
"We're being treated like criminals," said Guillermo Ricaurte, a tenant who works in an auto body shop in New Hyde Park, where he is paid $500 a week, more than most of his neighbors. "The inspectors were banging down doors and frightening people. We didn't do anything wrong. We are working people. We're not looking for welfare or financial help."
Mr. Ricaurte, who was born in Colombia, is a United States citizen. Some of his neighbors are citizens or legal immigrants, and some are illegal immigrants.
Concerns about the propriety of the recent raid, conducted without a warrant or eviction order, were raised by a lawyer for the tenants, Angela Divaris of the Central American Refugee Center in Hempstead. "I really wonder if this would have happened this way in another neighborhood," she said.
But John Venditto, town attorney for Oyster Bay, which includes Hicksville, said the town inspectors were exercising emergency powers to protect public safety. He cited building code violations on wiring, plumbing and exits. Ms. Divaris said they could be fixed, however.
Some tenants object to the town inspector now posted in the parking lot 24 hours a day. They say his presence is intimidating. Mr. Venditto said the inspector is there to summon help in case of fire.
Newspaper and television coverage has won some sympathy for the tenants, and perhaps a brief stay of eviction.
Town Supervisor Lewis J. Yevoli said: "We're not going to throw women and children out into the street, but we cannot allow them to remain on the premises because of the seriousness of the situation. God forbid you should have a fire. We're trying to to work with them to find alternate housing."
Even the real-estate brokers suggested by the county Social Services Department acknowledge that it will not be easy to find rentals. Mrs. Delgado said that the eviction forced her brother, Jorge Loredo, to move with his pregnant wife and their baby, but all they could afford was a one-bedroom apartment in Westbury.
"There is a shortage of this type of housing," Mr. Yevoli said. "However, we're not going to let an essentially one-family community become New York City." He called the illegal apartments a blight.
Long Island has a high average income and most of its land is zoned for single-family homes. Proposed multiple-family dwellings, even luxury ones, sometimes face neighborhood opposition and political oblivion.
But the single-family ideal is often honored in the breach, with tens of thousands of illegal apartments tucked away in basements, attics and garages. Enforcement is rare and tends to focus on immigrants and overcrowding.
Compounding the housing shortage, co-op and condominium conversions removed 11,000 apartments from Nassau County's stock of low- and moderate-priced rentals in the 1980's, Ms. Rogatz said.
Local government has done little to remedy the problem, critics say. Nassau County has 100,000 people who need low-cost housing, Ms. Rogatz said, but only 10,000 subsidized apartments, many of them for the elderly.
In Suffolk County, the situation is similar. Peter Barnett, the director of Wyandanch Homes and Property Development, a nonprofit agency for homeless families, said the 1990 census showed 42,277 families in the county making less than $20,000 a year. At that level, "you can't possibly afford the rents being charged, and that's a major problem," he said.
The most politically acceptable solution, he said, would be to build two-family homes and to legalize apartments in single-family homes. "That would greatly help the poor find a place to live," he said.
As widespread as the problem is, Oyster Bay officials said they had never heard of a commercial property being converted into multiple residences. Tenants of the complex raided in Hicksville say the oldest apartments there date back at least 15 years, and more were added a few years ago.
Mr. Yevoli described the landlord as unscrupulous and demanded stiff penalties.
The buildings are owned by Frank Antun Properties. Mr. Antun died in 1994, and the property's master tenant and manager is O.C.R. Realty. Its lawyer, John E. Ryan, said O.C.R. Realty inherited the illegal apartments and agreed to remove them. The company has paid $2,200 in fines in Nassau County District Court for violations issued a year ago.
The owner of Antun's catering hall, Donald LeCompte, said he bought that business years ago and is just another tenant. "People complain to us about the problem in the back," he said, "but we don't have anything to do with it and don't like it any more than they do."
Beyond the apartment shortage, the Hicksville case also reflects an extreme response to the surplus of office space in Long Island's still-sluggish economy.
That problem has prompted developers to consider turning empty office buildings into apartments, with proper renovations and rezoning. But they would not be rented cheaply.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of the Delgado family have packed their belongings in bags since a raid on illegal apartments in Hicksville, L.I., so they can move on a moment's notice.The dwellings had been carved out of vacant offices in violation of the zoning code. Alejandro Delgado held daughter Jessica, 2, and his wife, Carmen, sat with daughters Alejandra, 10, and Cinthia, 4. (Photographs by Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HICKSVILLE (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ZONING; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; DISCRIMINATION INSPECTIONS (90%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (90%); SUBURBS (86%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); COUNTIES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); CITIES (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); POOR POPULATION (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); FAMILY (64%); GAS STATIONS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



130 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Milosevic's Choice

 BODY:
Sensibly, Serbia's President, Slobodan Milosevic, has backed away from confrontation with thousands of protesters outraged by his annulment of opposition victories in recent municipal elections. Compromise, including a belated recognition of the original election results, may be Mr. Milosevic's only hope for long-term political survival.
So long as he remains in power, the West is obliged to work with him to carry out the Bosnian peace agreements. But it has no interest in his defying the will of his own people, as expressed not only in the polls but for the past two and a half weeks in the streets of Belgrade. The Clinton Administration is right to demand that he now open a dialogue with opposition leaders. 
 Although the opposition movement has not so far spread beyond the urban middle class and students to factory workers and other groups, it has shown enough strength to persuade the Milosevic regime to shift tactics. Warnings from Washington and other foreign capitals against a violent crackdown also helped encourage the Serbian Government's retreat. Belgrade has stopped trying to ignore the daily mass marches and has allowed independent radio stations to return to the air. It has also made a bid to win back public support by paying overdue stipends to students and pensioners and cutting consumer electricity rates.
There are encouraging signs that Mr. Milosevic may be prepared to yield on the substance of the dispute as well. A Belgrade electoral tribunal has now called on Serbia's supreme court to review the cancellation of the original results in that city, one of 14 major towns where opposition slates appear to have won. In a further conciliatory gesture, several officials associated with the most blatant electoral shenanigans were dismissed.
If the Serbian Government is now edging toward compromise, it is because intensified repression carried heavy risks. A forcible crackdown, as Washington pointedly reminded Belgrade, would wreck Mr. Milosevic's efforts to rehabilitate his international image and prolong Serbia's painful economic isolation. It was Mr. Milosevic's earlier sponsorship of armed insurgencies in Croatia and Bosnia that brought on that isolation in the first place, including a long period of international economic sanctions.
Even if the regime were prepared to accept renewed isolation, repression might not long slow the pressure for political change. The democratic transformation that began sweeping through Eastern and Central Europe in 1989 has finally reached the Balkans. Last month, voters in neighboring Romania threw out the post-Communist Government led by Ion Iliescu. Like Mr. Milosevic, Mr. Iliescu was an agile former apparatchik who had managed to survive Communism's fall. A similarly backward-looking regime in Bulgaria also suffered a recent setback at the polls, and in Croatia the old order may not survive President Franjo Tudjman, now gravely ill.
Serbia badly needs both political and economic reform. But the need for political change is more urgent. Establishing democratic legitimacy could bring increased foreign investment, making economic adjustment considerably less painful.
Mr. Milosevic can adapt himself to the requirements of democracy, recognize the opposition's victories and subject his own power to a fair vote in presidential elections next year. Or he can seek to maintain his old dictatorial ways by force. The second course would only delay, at considerable cost, a change that is sure to come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); BULGARIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); BULGARIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); FACTORY WORKERS (53%); UTILITY RATES (51%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



131 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Russian Economic Crisis Delays Crew's Arrival on Space Station

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla., Dec. 6

 BODY:
The international space station will fly without a crew for months longer than planned because of Russia's economic crisis, a top NASA official said today, though completion of the station on time is still possible.
A NASA astronaut, William Shepherd, and two Russians were supposed to be the station's first settlers in May 1998, six months after the launching of its first component. But now they will not get there until October 1998 at the earliest because of the Russians' inability to launch a service module on time, said the manager of the space station program, Randy Brinkley. 
 The module, a live-in cylinder about 40 feet long and providing life-support equipment and fuel storage, is needed before anyone can live permanently on the station.
Mr. Brinkley said the Russian Space Agency told him that a lack of money had left them as much as eight months behind on the module. It was supposed to be launched in April 1998, with the crew following on a Russian Soyuz rocket one month later.
Russian space officials admitted the delay in an unusually candid meeting in Moscow late last month, Mr. Brinkley said.
If the Russian Space Agency receives full financing from its government by the end of January, the component could be completed and launched by December 1998, Mr. Brinkley said, adding that it was possible that the launching date could be moved up to September. But to try to rush and get the module up any sooner would compress testing too much, he said, and "it's not something you would want to do."
The crew will be launched one month after the service module, whenever that may be.
Even with this disruption, NASA and its many international partners, including the Russians, could still complete the station in mid-2002 as originally planned, Mr. Brinkley said. But further delays could dismantle the five-year assembly plan.
NASA will probably consider one of many options to replace the module if the Russian Government does not come up with all the money by the end of January, Mr. Brinkley said. One option would be to use part of a modified military missile.
Even without the service module, the Russians would still have a large role in the orbiting laboratory. They are supposed to launch the first station component on schedule in November 1997 and later send up other parts.
The Russians have never divulged their share of the total station cost. NASA's share is $30 billion.
While he said he was frustrated, Mr. Brinkley said he remained optimistic that "we can work our way through all this." His Russian counterparts are committed to the program, he added.
"Nobody said it would be easy," he said.
Russia's cash-strapped space program has been struggling since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union. Last month, a Russian spacecraft to Mars never made it out of Earth's orbit and broke up in the atmosphere. Russia's last advanced spy satellite recently fell from the sky, leaving the military with older satellites that cannot produce good, detailed photos.
In addition, Russia is often forced to extend the stay of astronauts on its Mir space station because of delays in building the expensive rockets needed to bring them home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARS (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: SPACE AGENCY INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARS (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; FINANCES; SPACE STATIONS; INTERNATIONAL SPACE COOPERATION AND VENTURES SPACE STATIONS (93%); SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM C SHEPHERD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



132 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: New Era for Rents

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
Most New Yorkers cannot remember a time without landlords who clamored for an end to rent regulation, and occasional noises from the Legislature about doing away with rent rules -- but such talk has usually come to nothing.
It is already clear that 1997 will be different, that the forces aligned against rent regulation are more formidable than in the past, and that some kind of decontrol is likely. There are two primary reasons for this: State Senator Joseph L. Bruno and Gov. George E. Pataki. 
 The rent laws have come up for renewal every two or four years for decades, and they have usually been extended, essentially unchanged. But next year's debate over renewal will be the first since Mr. Pataki, the first Republican governor in a generation, and Mr. Bruno, the most conservative leader of the Senate's Republican majority in a generation, took their positions in 1994.
"It's simple politics," said Arthur Zabarkes, an economist and director of the Real Estate Institute at New York University, who opposes rent regulation. "The logic for and against rent regulation hasn't changed in years. All that's different is that the cast of characters has changed."
He and other housing analysts say that a hot real estate market in Manhattan has forced rents upward, to the legal limits for many rent-stabilized units. But they note that the market was even hotter in the late 1980's, yet there was no significant move in Albany to end rent regulation.
Senator Bruno, of Rensselaer County, near Albany, ventured on Wednesday to Manhattan, the heart of the rent-regulated world, and threw down the gauntlet: If the Democratic leaders of the Assembly do not agree to phase out almost all rent rules by 1999, he will allow the current rules to die a quick death when they expire next June 15.
By himself, he can throw 1.2 million apartments, most of them in New York City, open to the forces of the market simply by preventing an extension of the laws from coming to a vote in the Senate. At stake are rent stabilization, the generation-old system that caps rents and limits increases for 1.1 million apartments, and rent control, the World War II-era system that imposes far lower rents and now applies to 80,000 units.
Mr. Pataki will clearly influence the process, and while he has so far declined to weigh in, he has often shown the same kind of tendency to favor the free market over government regulation that is the touchstone of foes of rent regulation.
Mr. Bruno may talk about taking a lonely stand, regardless of what the Governor does, but "the more people that are willing to take the heat on it, the better -- the more likely it is to happen," said Peter D. Salins, a professor of urban planning at Hunter College, who is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group.
"If it were just the leader of the Senate, it would be hard to stand up to it," said Professor Salins, who has written extensively against rent regulation. "It's important that we now have George Pataki astride the process, not Mario Cuomo."
The tough stance being taken by Mr. Bruno was not heard from his predecessors as majority leader, Ralph J. Marino of Oyster Bay, L.I., who led the Senate from 1988 to 1994, and Warren M. Anderson of Binghamton, who led it from 1972 to 1988.
"Marino was much more of a moderate Republican," said Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez, a Democrat of Brooklyn who is chairman of the housing committee and supports rent regulation, "and he's from Nassau County, which has a pretty good number of regulated apartments. And Anderson was also not as conservative as Bruno is. This is all about Pataki and Bruno, instead of Cuomo and Marino."
And there are even broader political changes involved, Professor Salins said. "Rent regulation is being eliminated all over," he said. "Massachusetts got rid of it last year by referendum. California is doing it, sort of city by city. There's been mounting evidence that it makes sense."
That is not to say that the legislative session that begins next month will necessarily result in elimination of rent regulation, though there appears to be a consensus that a sizable scaling back is inevitable. Some Assembly Democrats, who insisted on anonymity, predicted that at a minimum, there would be expansion of "luxury decontrol." That measure, adopted in 1993, eliminated rent rules for apartments that cost at least $2,000 a month and whose residents make at least $250,000 a year for two consecutive years.
While he insists that he does not intend to budge, Mr. Bruno may be staking out a position at the far end of the spectrum in a bid to push the debate as far as possible before settling for something less. And some have suggested that he is doing so to give Mr. Pataki the opportunity to enter the fray as an apparent voice of moderation, able to hold himself up to New York City's overwhelmingly Democratic electorate as the man who saved at least a piece of rent regulation.
"I'm sure that's what will be true," said Professor Zabarkes of New York University. "Even if it isn't orchestrated in advance, politically, it's inevitable that there will be a compromise, and then Pataki gets to look like the savior."
That same logic could also help Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, another Republican, who faces a re-election campaign next year. He opposes decontrol, and yesterday appeared already at work reducing expectations about what he might be able to do.
"I don't think that I have the clout in Albany to change anybody's mind, ultimately, on this," he said. "But this is not one in which I am alone. If I were standing all by myself and I had to be the one to do it, I would say that the forces here are too great."
Landlords and their allies have also become more aggressive in what seems a never-ending struggle. It was widely noted that the last time the laws were up for review, in 1993, the fight over renewal was the most bitter in years, and resulted in luxury decontrol, the first significant retreat from regulation in two decades.
This year, the three major landlords' associations, realizing that the political stars are aligned in their favor, have poured more than $700,000 into state political campaigns, most of it for Republicans, far more than in election years past. Legislators say the largest landlord group, the Rent Stabilization Association, has become more politically savvy and aggressive.
"The landlords are putting enormous pressure to act right now," Assemblyman Lopez said, "because they don't know if they'll get another chance."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION RENT CONTROL (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (71%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



133 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Albright May Be Facing Unfamiliar Tests

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6

 BODY:
Many of the challenges facing President Clinton's nominee for Secretary of State, Madeleine K. Albright, will come in areas like China, the Middle East and the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America, where Ms. Albright has no great depth of experience.
While known for her rhetorical and political skills, Ms. Albright will be inheriting many complicated problems and new, half-digested challenges just as many top officials will be leaving. Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, who is staying in his job, at least for the near future, offers the main continuity. 
 Ms. Albright and the other members of the foreign-policy team Mr. Clinton nominated on Thursday -- former Republican Senator William S. Cohen as Defense Secretary, Samuel R. Berger as national security adviser and his predecessor, Anthony Lake, as Director of Central Intelligence -- are expected to press ahead on the key European issues. These are stabilization in Bosnia, the expansion of NATO and the effort to get the Russians to accept it.
As someone who pushed for American military intervention in Bosnia and for a Nuremberg-style war crimes tribunal, Ms. Albright is expected, by officials and former officials who know her record and her interests, to give new verve to Western efforts to manage Bosnia's reconstruction. She is expected to press harder for NATO-led military actions to push freedom of movement and the return of refugees displaced by the war, and to highlight the need for a better moral accounting.
Jeffrey E. Garten, formerly Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade and now dean of the Yale School of Management, says he believes that the real challenge for Ms. Albright will be to "break the mindset of traditional military and security issues" and think harder about big emerging markets like Brazil, India and China. Economic growth there is three times that in the United States, Europe and Japan, and that is where many new American jobs will be produced, he said.
"Bosnia is nothing compared to what could happen with serious instability in India, China or Brazil," he said. "We haven't made the shift from the end of the cold war with the decisiveness necessary, to draw a closer link between the resources we spend abroad and the way most Americans view their lives."
"Will the new foreign policy team move in this direction, or merely make incremental changes to the status quo?" Mr. Garten asked. "Will this be a holding action or a slow turn, or a time when we can look over the horizon and define the new interests critical to the United States over the next decade?"
On the inescapable issue of the Middle East, officials and analysts are unclear where the new group will come out. Mr. Clinton's own involvement in the region is clear and paramount, says William Quandt, who worked on the National Security Council with Ms. Albright under President Carter, where she handled Congressional relations.
"The Middle East is not an area she's known about, but has thought about politically," said Mr. Quandt, now at the University of Virginia. "She had a strong interest in the domestic political angle, what we can get through the Hill, but not a big strategic picture."
"It's important to have people like that," he said, "but I think the Secretary of State should be someone who needs to say, 'Even if it's not popular, it's in the national interest.' "
Robert Satloff, executive director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, says Ms. Albright and the new team "understand both the politics and the diplomacy of the Mideast."
The problem, Mr. Satloff said, is that the fundamentals of the Middle East have shifted in the last year. The election of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of the Likud bloc, together with an erosion of the alliance to contain Iraq and Iran, American-European tensions and a more assertive Russian foreign policy, "mean a lack of ripeness for progress in the Arab-Israeli arena," Mr. Satloff said.
"So priorities have to be different in 1997 than in 1996," he said, especially about the continuing rule of President Saddam Hussein in Iraq, and that will test the new team.
Ms. Albright, given her United Nations experience, knows all about the dangers of Iraq, Mr. Satloff said.
Mr. Quandt, who favors a rethinking of the American policy of isolation of Iran, agrees that the Middle East has changed in a complicated way that goes beyond Mr. Netanyahu. "We need to rethink what to do about two unpopular states, Iraq and Iran, and just turning our back on both of them is not a policy."
As for Mr. Netanyahu, he said, the challenge for Ms. Albright is "how to talk tough to an Israeli Prime Minister and not seem anti-Israeli."
"I don't know whether she can do it," Mr. Quandt said. "She's tough, but these are tough issues. I know no one in the rest of the team can do it."
On Asia, another topic Ms. Albright does not know well -- though Mr. Berger does -- there are quick issues of Korean rivalry and the North Korean nuclear deal, as well as American policy toward China.
Stanley Roth, former director of Asian affairs at the National Security Council and now at the U.S. Institute of Peace, said of Mrs. Albright: "She's no Asia expert, that's obvious, but virtually no Secretary of State candidate knows everything. And she's been intimately involved with the main two issues: China and North Korea."
On China, too, Mr. Clinton has set the policy, Mr. Roth said from Hong Kong, adding: "But I've been arguing here there may be an unanticipated positive benefit. The Administration has not done well in communicating the human-rights component of its China policy, which I think is better than the common wisdom."
"The Asians fear she'll be human rights uber alles, oppose high-level meetings and reverse policy," Mr. Roth said. "But she's been in on its making, she's part of it, and she can explain better what it is."
On Africa, the South African Ambassador here, Franklin Sonn, says he hopes Ms. Albright can focus less on the deep problems of Central Africa to help provide investment and stability to the new democracies of southern Africa.
"In our view," he said, "in the next millennium African economic growth will occur from the south upward." But he would like more help in getting American business to invest in the new South African democracy, rather than simply praise President Nelson Mandela.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In New York yesterday, Madeleine K. Albright, nominee for Secretary of State, was greeted with open arms by Edward W. Gnehm Jr., the deputy delegate, and others at the American Mission to the United Nations. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); CHINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (56%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; MIDDLE EAST; LATIN AMERICA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; YUGOSLAVIA; UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); CHINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (56%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CIVIL WAR (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); DISPLACED PERSONS (71%); REFUGEES (68%); WAR CRIMES (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (AMB); ERLANGER, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



134 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Company Head Makes a Pitch to Run L.I. School

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

DATELINE: ROOSEVELT, L.I., Dec. 6

 BODY:
The founder of a private company that operates 12 public schools in 6 states told parents this week that his company would invest $1.5 million in computers and teaching materials if it were hired to run an elementary school here.
The company, the Edison Project, is seeking a contract to run its first school in the New York region. Its other schools are in Massachusetts, Michigan, Texas, Kansas, Florida and Colorado. 
 The company's founder, Christopher Whittle, said an Edison school here would place special emphasis on insuring that all students master the fundamentals of reading and mathematics. He said that there would be instruction in Spanish for all students, beginning in kindergarten, and that students would have access to technology, including a computer in every family's home.
Mr. Whittle's proposal has been greeted with skepticism in Roosevelt, a result of the community's long history of problems with its schools. Earlier this year, the Roosevelt school system became the first in New York to be taken over by the state because of the poor performance by most of its 2,800 students, lack of textbooks, low morale and unsafe school buildings.
The district has since shown progress, student performance has improved, and and morale is up. So, if things are improving, some parents are asking why the board should now consider bringing in an outsider to run one of its four elementary schools.
Hoping to respond to their skepticism, Mr. Whittle met for more than three hours Wednesday night with more than 100 parents and community leaders in the Junior-Senior High School Auditorium.
"We have 12 different schools that are up and running across the country," he said, "and one of the things we find is that they are all different. Each is unique in their particular situation, as is Roosevelt, but none has come through a recent crisis like Roosevelt."
He emphasized that all the students attending the Edison school would do so voluntarily, as did the students in other Edison's schools. He said many details of an agreement with Roosevelt have yet to be worked out, and he noted that his company has yet to discuss its proposal with the teachers' union here.
"That's an important step we have yet to make," Mr. Whittle acknowledged.
"In some districts we have excellent union support and in some we don't," he said. "But we have to have the support of all the constituents of a district, and that includes students, teachers, members of the school board and parents, or we're out of business."
He said that Edison did not seek out Roosevelt but came at the invitation of the school board and Daniel Domenech, chairman of the state panel that directed the takeover of Roosevelt's schools.
Mr. Whittle said it was too early for his fledgling venture, which is based in New York City, to be making a profit. Still, he said, it was gaining the support of investors, who put $30.5 million into the project last month, bringing to $106 million the amount of private investment since Mr. Whittle announced Edison's start in 1991.
More than $50 million has been spent on research and development, he said.
"We haven't really invented anything new," Mr. Whittle said. "We've just drawn on the best ideas from everywhere and put them into our program."
"The new capital will fund a significant expansion of our operations in 1997 and 1998," he added. "When we're operating around 30 schools, we'll have a system that will be profitable."
Glenn Simmons, the president of the Board of Education here, said that although many parents favored the Edison proposal, others remained uncertain.
"The Edison proposal sounds like a reasonable and viable option for us," he said. "But whether there will be enough support to initiate the program remains to be seen."
The board had hoped to vote on the plan by the end of this month, but it is facing a delay because of the need for more discussion.
Mr. Simmons, a New York City police detective, said he was encouraged by the outcome of Wednesday's meeting with parents and a meeting Thursday night with members of a community advisory committee appointed by the state.
Robert Francis, the chairman of the advisory committee, said there was no doubt in the minds of the panel that the Edison Project appeared to offer a promising program, but, he said, many questions remained to be answered about Edison's track record and long-term reliability.
"There are too many knots that are not yet tied," Mr. Francis said today. "We're not sure, in terms of numbers of students, whether we could meet the minimum 450 that Edison says it would need, and what the price per pupil would be and what impact that would have on our tax structure."
"Another concern is Edison's track record," said Mr. Francis, Commissioner of Planning and Economic Development for the Town of Hempstead, of which Roosevelt is a part. "They've only been doing this for a year and a half. What if they go bankrupt and are forced to leave? Where would that leave the students?"
Mr. Simmons said the question raised by Mr. Francis was worth considering and needed to be answered by Edison.
"The certainty of a sustained commitment by Edison does require some thought," Mr. Simmons said. "But no one can predict the future. The only fair and accurate way is to look at what we currently are doing and go from there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Whittle, center, founder of the Edison Project, meeting with parents at a Roosevelt school. He was with Earl Rickman, a Michigan education board official, and Deborah McGriff, an Edison official. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: EDISON PROJECT

ORGANIZATION: EDISON PROJECT

GEOGRAPHIC: ROOSEVELT (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); WORKPLACE MORALE (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: WHITTLE, CHRISTOPHER; MCQUISTON, JOHN T MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



135 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Bond Prices Stabilize After Falling Initially

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities buckled yesterday but did not break as traders feared that Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, had questioned whether stock prices were too lofty. Then the bond market was rescued by the release of the November employment data and closed mixed.
The 30-year bond was down 2/32 , to a price of 9929/32 to yield 6.51 percent, up from 6.50 percent on Thursday. 
 Mr. Greenspan, speaking on Thursday night at the the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research in Washington, said, "Clearly, sustained low inflation implies less uncertainty about the future, and lower risk premiums imply higher prices of stocks and other earnings assets." Then, he added. "But how do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values, which than become subject to unexpected and prolonged contractions as they have in Japan over the past decade?"
Anthony Chan, vice president and chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, said, "Although Mr. Greenspan opened up by making clear that he was speaking only for himself, market watchers are smart enough to know that his words carry a lot more weight than those of the typical guy on the street."
The job report that restored the bond market showed that the economy continued to grow at a healthy, moderate pace. Payrolls rose by 118,000 in November, far shy of the 175,000 that the market consensus had expected. The unemployment rate rose to 5.4 percent, from 5.2 percent in the prior month. Both numbers show an economy that is not overheating, and thus would not need to be cooled through a Federal Reserve rate rise.
Nevertheless, Mr. Chan said he believed Mr. Greenspan was implying that the Fed would not hesitate to act in a pre-emptive fashion if he felt conditions warranted it.
Yesterday's October factory orders report managed to put a drag on prices at about the time the market was showing signs of stabilizing. Orders rose a strong nine-tenths of a percent, and excluding transportation they were up 2.3 percent.
By afternoon, things had settled down, more or less, aided by short- covering and the stock market's move up from an opening plunge of more than 144 points in the Dow Jones industrial average. The market participants were a little disappointed in the afternoon when Mr. Greenspan spoke at a Union League luncheon in Philadelpha and did not temper his previous comments. He instead talked about Social Security.
David A. Ader, managing analyst with Technical Data, Boston, said volume in the cash bond market was impressive at $58 billion by 10:30 A.M., surpassing the last high of $51 billion on the release of the August employment number. He said the average Friday volume was $30.1 billion. Typical overnight trading is $3 billion; yesterday morning it was $11 billion.
Gary Thayer, senior economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons, St. Louis, said the last few days had been a normal correction after a good run in the market. "The fundamentals are still looking pretty good," he said. "We have slow growth and low inflation," as shown by the job numbers.
The Fed chairman's comments, he said, probably deepened the correction. "I anticipate over the near term that the yield on the long bond will stay relatively low until we get some sign of inflationary problems," Mr. Thayer said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (71%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (92%); BONDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



136 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-7
 
TAKEOVER AT A NUCLEAR PLANT
Employees at St. Petersburg's nuclear power plant took over the control room and threatened to shut down the plant that provides the city's power unless they received months of back pay. 1
 
NEW CHALLENGES FOR ALBRIGHT
As Secretary of State, Madeleine K. Albright is expected to give new verve to efforts to resolve difficult problems in Europe. But many of the challenges she faces will come in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America, where she has relatively little experience. 7
 
HOPE AND DOUBT FROM ABROAD
Governments around the world formally welcomed President Clinton's new foreign policy and defense appointments. But while some hoped that now the U.S. might see things more their way, others feared that it would not. 7
 
TORIES SLIP INTO MINORITY
Prime Minister John Major lost his parliamentary majority and was attacked by members of his party over his insistence that Britain remain engaged in talks with Europe about a common currency. 3
 
Instability grew in the Central African Republic. 4
 
Outside a Serbian newspaper office, thousands protested coverage. 6
 
Hluhluwe Game Reserve Journal: A place for birds and watchers. 4
 
National 8-13
 
FREE SPEECH IN CYBERSPACE
Setting the stage for a ruling on the constitutional dimensions of free speech in cyberspace, the Supreme Court agreed to a full review of whether the new Federal law regulating indecency on the Internet violates the First Amendment. 1
 
U.S. BANS GAG ON DOCTORS
The Federal Government said that health maintenance organizations and other health plans may not limit what doctors tell Medicare patients about options for treatment. 1
 
TOUGH TIME FOR ARMY RECRUITERS
As investigators fan out across the United States to assess the scope of the problem of sexual harassment in the Army, recruiters fear that the accusations are hurting their efforts to lure more women into the armed services. 1
 
STOCKS ROILED WORLDWIDE
Comments by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, which many traders took to mean that stocks were overvalued, sent markets reeling from Tokyo to London to New York. But stocks turned up later in the day, bolstered by a lackluster employment report. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day down 55.16 points. 1
 
ENVIRONMENT RULES HIT HURDLE
The Clinton Administration's new proposals to tighten air quality regulations have run into Congressional resistance from an unexpected quarter, Senator John Chafee of Rhode Island, for decades a leading Republican environmentalist. 8
 
CLINTON'S OTHER APPOINTMENTS
With his major decisions on foreign policy appointments behind him, President Clinton met with his transition team in hopes of announcing major domestic and economic appointments next week. 9
 
RULING ON AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
A Federal judge temporarily barred the University of California from enforcing a voter initiative that would end the use of race and sex preferences in affirmative action programs statewide. 10
 
FOG KEEPS SHUTTLE ALOFT
The space shuttle Columbia and its astronauts set a shuttle endurance record of almost 18 days in orbit after bad weather thwarted the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's landing plans for a second day. 13
 
Metro Report 25-29
 
Business Digest35
 
Arts/Entertainment15-21, 24
In the days when Italy enchanted the gentry. 15
Film: "Adrenalin: Fear the Rush." 19
Music: Jingle Ball. 15
Lorin Maazel with the Bavarian Radio Symphony. 17
A German violinist's debut. 24
"Threepenny" songs sung by Croatians. 24
Dance: Ballet Hispanico. 17
Critic's Notebook. 15
Television: Charges against John Stossel dropped. 21
 
Sports30-34
Baseball: Steinbrenner silent about the 1997 Yankees. 31
Basketball: Knicks beat Heat. 31Nets defeat Celtics. 33
Column: Anderson on Rozelle. 31
Hockey: Rangers top the Maple Leafs. 33
Football: Will nasty weather help the Jets? 34Ellsworth a bright spot for the Giants. 34
 
Obituaries48-49
Pete Rozelle, the father of the Super Bowl 49
 
Editorials/Op-Ed22-23
Editorials
Mr. Milosevic's choice.
Spare the Brady law.
Rescuing the superstore deal.
Letters
Frank Rich: The miracle backlash.
Russell Baker: Yellow Peril's return.
John S. Lewis: Water on the moon, pie in the sky.
Peggy Orenstein: Censorship follies, town by town.
Joseph P. Kennedy 2d: How to head off the heating oil crisis.
 
Bridge21
Crossword18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POWER PLANTS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMIES (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); BACK PAY (73%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); MEDICARE (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); MILITARY RECRUITING (68%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (67%); CURRENCIES (67%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); JUDGES (65%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); SPACE SHUTTLE (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



137 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Says It Plans More Privatizations

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 6

 BODY:
Seizing on new momentum in its privatization program, the Mexican Government said today that it was planning new sales of state-owned railroads, airports and satellites next year.
A successful railroad auction on Thursday effectively revived the flagging privatization effort of President Ernesto Zedillo. A consortium including Kansas City Southern Industries, a major American railroad operator, bid $1.4 billion -- nearly three times as big as the next highest offer -- for a 50-year concession to operate Mexico's Northeast Railroad, which stretches from Mexico City to the border at Laredo, Tex. 
 Mexican officials who managed the auction beamed with satisfaction at its result. The sale is expected to yield a total of $1.8 billion to the Government over the life of the concession, and it will also relieve the Government of the burden of costly worker pension funds.
"We're going to have a more efficient rail system that will move our foreign commerce more quickly," said Carlos Ruiz Sacristan, the Secretary of Communications and Transportation. He said Mexico wanted to keep up the pace by holding the next auction, for the Pacific-North Railroad, which snakes from Mexico City to four border points including Eagle Pass, Tex., in February 1997.
Economists said the railroad deal revived a privatization program that stalled in October, when President Zedillo scrapped a longstanding plan to sell the petrochemical industry, part of the state petroleum monopoly, into private hands. Stymied by domestic political opposition, the Government issued new legal guidelines that allow private companies to own no more than 49 percent of petrochemical companies.
The first railroad auction, of the aging Chihuahua-Pacific line, also failed in October. Before Thursday's auction, the Zedillo Government had taken in only $240 million from the sale of state enterprises, in contrast with more than $20 billion earned by the booming selloff of the previous President, Carlos Salinas de Gortari.
"This takes the tarnish off the program and gives it an extraordinary push," said Raymundo Winkler, director of the Private Sector Center for Economic Studies, a research center here.
The Pacific-North line promises to be a harder sell than the Northeast line, which was regarded as the diamond of Mexico's railways because it carries a big cargo load, 40 percent of the total. The Pacific-North line is half again as long as the 2,500-mile Northeast line but moves the same amount of cargo, so its operating costs are higher. The buyer will compete with the Northeast line.
Mr. Ruiz Sacristan said he hoped the companies that lost out in Thursday's auction would return with offers for the Pacific-North route. They were a joint venture between the Union Pacific Corporation and Empresas ICA, a huge Mexican construction company, and Grupo Mexico, a mining enterprise.
Also in 1997 the Government will auction its Southeastern line connecting the Gulf of Mexico port of Coatzacoalcos to the Pacific port of Salinas Cruz. The sale will be part of a project to create a modern transportation link involving railroads and a highway across the isthmus between the two ports. The plan, talked about for years, is finally showing signs of getting started.
The Government is busy writing regulations to prepare to auction its three satellites next year. By law the Government must retain 51 percent control of the satellites. Concessions to operate a number of major airports will also be offered in 1997, Mr. Ruiz Sacristan said.
The group that won the Northeast line, Transportacion Ferroviaria Mexicana S.A., or TFM, includes Transportacion Maritima Mexicana, Mexico's largest ocean freight company. The high bid was a gamble that Mexican exports, especially automobiles and other heavy freight, would continue to surge as they have since the North American Free Trade Agreement went into effect, and Mexico would turn increasingly to trains to move its goods. Today only about 15 percent of Mexican cargo travels by train, compared with 30 percent in the United States.
Transportacion Ferroviaria Mexicana officials said the concession did not include any prior contracts with the railroad's 8,000 workers. Contract negotiations with the union are already under way.
Late today, Moody's Investors Service, the large credit rating agency, said it had placed under review for a possible lower rating the long-term debt of Transportacion Maritima Mexicana and its partner in the consortium, Kansas City Southern.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: KSU (NYSE) (90%); UNP (NYSE) (84%); ICA (NYSE) (58%); ICA (BMV) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (58%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (58%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (50%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST RAILWAY KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN (90%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (84%); EMPRESAS ICA SAB DE CV (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST RAILWAY

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (50%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRIVATIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PRIVATIZATION (93%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); TRENDS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); PETROCHEMICALS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (65%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA; ZEDILLO, ERNESTO (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



138 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Sex Scandal Poses a Hurdle In Recruiting Army Women

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.C., Dec. 2

 BODY:
The more Angela Donevan hears about the reports of rape and sexual harassment involving drill sergeants at Army training bases nationwide, the more she questions her decision to join the Army.
Ms. Donevan said she still planned to honor her enlistment pledge and report to basic training on Jan. 6 at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo., where 23 sergeants have been implicated in sexual misconduct. But she will keep her guard up. 
 "It's given me something to think about," said Ms. Donevan, who is 26 and enlisted at the small recruiting office here. "My mom and my grandma don't want me to go, but I'm aware of what's going on. You have to know how to handle it."
As investigators fan out across the country to assess the scope of the problem, Army recruiters are already fearing the worst and taking steps to deal with it. Recruiting is a volatile business in the best of times, depending on intangible perceptions about the vitality of the armed forces. The slightest whiff of bad publicity can wreck a recruiter's carefully calibrated sales pitch, particularly to the young women the Army is now recruiting heavily.
Only a handful of enlistees have backed out before entering basic training because of the reports. But the problem "has the potential to be damaging, depending on how the Army deals with it as a whole," said Lieut. Col. Warren Singleton, who oversees Army recruiting in most of North Carolina.
To allay concerns, the Army's top recruiter, Maj. Gen. Alfonso E. Lenhardt, sent a letter last month to the parents of every new recruit waiting to enter basic training -- more than 20,000 letters.
"I want to take this opportunity to assure you that the Army leadership is taking immediate positive steps to prevent this type of misconduct," General Lenhardt wrote. "Our Army has absolutely no tolerance for any form of unlawful discrimination."
Recruiters nationwide are fielding questions from potential recruits, concerned parents and high-school guidance counselors.
"We tell them what the Army policy is, how we've handled these cases and how, if an incident happens, it'll be dealt with surely and swiftly," said Col. Vicki Warren, the deputy commander of Army recruiting in 11 Southern states. "That's about all you can tell a parent. You can't blow smoke at them."
The scandal could not have come at a worse time for recruiters. More than ever before, the Army is counting on women to fill its ranks.
That is because the military's post-cold-war drawdown is over, and the armed services now need to bring in tens of thousands of new recruits every year to stabilize the force. The Army alone needs to recruit 89,700 new soldiers this year.
But military surveys show that the percentage of 16-to-21-year-old men who are inclined to enlist has generally declined in recent years. So the Army is turning to women to pick up the slack. Women now account for 20 percent of the Army's new recruits, compared with 12 percent a decade ago. Over all, women make up 14 percent of the 496,000-member Army.
Recruiters are dangling enticements for women to join. The Army offers young men and women recruits up to $30,000 for college costs or $55,000 to pay off loans for students already attending college.
In the hallway of the recruiting office here hangs a poster that would not have existed a few years ago: "Women Aviators Wanted -- Why Wait in the Wings When You Can Wear Them." After a bruising internal debate, the Army two years ago opened 41,000 new positions to women, including flying Apache attack helicopters. Still, 32 percent of all Army jobs, including all positions in the infantry, artillery and armor, remain closed to women.
Even as Army recruiters find women a more attractive target of opportunity, the last few years have been difficult for recruiting over all. About 95 percent of the new recruits are high-school graduates, but that is down from 100 percent in 1992.
The strong economy is good for the country but bad for recruiters, who thrive during recessions when jobs are tight.
"If they can get a job at $8 or $9 an hour and stay at home with Mom and Dad, or join the Army, they'll stay at home," Colonel Warren said.
To help increase recruitment, the Army has increased its annual advertising budget to $70.6 million for each of the last two years, from $32.8 million in 1993.
But for all the television or print advertising campaigns, the Army ultimately relies on its 7,500 recruiters, including 450 women, to work 12-hour days cold-calling prospects, knocking on doors and scouting shopping malls for teen-agers.
Recruiting duty is supposed to be prestigious -- only about 10 percent of the eligible sergeants are selected -- but it is a tough job whose only perk is a $375 monthly bonus. The Army calculates that it takes 142 contacts -- from phone calls to doors knocked -- for every person enlisted.
To attract more women, recruiters like Staff Sgt. Christine Burns, a 28-year-old telecommunications specialist, are increasingly valuable. Sergeant Burns said she could relate well to high-school girls who were thinking about joining the Army.
"They want to know about basic training," said Sergeant Burns, a 10-year Army veteran from Flint, Mich. "They want to know if they're going to make it. They want to know what kind of job they'll have."
Sergeant Burns said that not one of her potential recruits had yet asked about the reports of sexual harassment.
"It's very unfortunate what's happened with the drill sergeants," she said, "but it's not common practice in the Army."
The sergeant spoke from experience. As a young communications specialist several years ago, she said her boss routinely called women degrading names. She confronted him one day, Sergeant Burns said, and he stopped.
But as Sergeant Burns talks to students at the nine high schools and four universities in her recruiting area, she recognizes the impact the reports may have on potential recruits.
"Joining the Army is a big decision," Sergeant Burns said. "Any type of negative publicity can turn recruits off."
Just getting some women to listen to her sales pitch can be an ordeal. As Sergeant Burns, dressed in her Army green uniform, approached three young women at the Northgate mall here recently, one recoiled slightly when the recruiter identified herself.
"We're not joining the Navy! We're having babies," said the young woman, patting her stomach, before stalking off.
Sergeant Burns, rolling her eyes as the women left, said she had learned to take it all in stride, including being mistaken for being a member of another branch of the military.
"Females can get really funky," Sergeant Burns said. "A woman is a woman. We all have attitudes, and I've got to keep mine in check."
Rasheda Vinson, a 17-year-old high school senior, is one of Sergeant Burns's successful recruits. Rasheda joined the Army Reserve and went through eight weeks of boot camp in South Carolina last summer after her junior year in high school.
At Sergeant Burns's urging, Rasheda has now enlisted in the regular Army as a dental assistant and will receive advanced training in Texas after she graduates from high school in the spring.
"I know the drill sergeants aren't supposed to hit us or do anything sexually offensive," Rasheda said. "I don't think I'll feel intimidated. If something happens, I'll know what to do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Staff Sgt. Christine Burns, an Army recruiter, talked with Rasheda Vinson, a 17-year-old high school senior who joined the Army Reserve and went through boot camp last summer. At Sergeant Burns's urging, she enlisted. "I don't think I'll feel intimidated," Rasheda said about sexual harassment. (Jennifer Warburg for The New York Times) (pg. 12)
 
Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: In the Army Now" show the share of male and female Army recruits, 1986-96. (Source: Department of the Army) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY PERSONNEL; SEX CRIMES; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; WOMEN; ARMIES; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY) ARMIES (96%); MILITARY TRAINING (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (90%); SCANDALS (89%); SEX SCANDALS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COLD WAR (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (61%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



139 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Surprise Senate Challenge to Pollution Plan

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration's new proposals to tighten air quality regulations have run into Congressional resistance from an unexpected quarter, as Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, for decades a leading Republican environmentalist, has challenged the rationale for such costly steps.
In an interview today, he questioned whether the health benefits of stricter standards for airborne soot and smog are great enough to justify the expense of further pollution controls. It is a question that goes to the heart of the Clean Air Act and revives the debate over regulatory costs and benefits that split the 104th Congress. 
 As the chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, Mr. Chafee has long been viewed by environmental advocates as a key ally among Republican Congressional leaders, and his stance on the air quality regulations has stirred intense alarm among those who favor the proposed new rules. The proposal has been strongly attacked by major industry groups.
Mr. Chafee's doubts first surfaced in a draft of a letter to Carol M. Browner, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, challenging the agency's proposed new air regulations governing ozone, a chemical that helps cause smog, and the tiny particles that form soot. The draft letter is circulating among Senate offices for possible revision as Mr. Chafee seeks additional signatures.
Mr. Chafee sought today to play down the letter's significance, saying that it has not yet been signed, sealed or delivered.
The draft calls for setting aside the Clean Air Act's longstanding presumption that air quality standards are to be based primarily on considerations of public health, not costs -- which would require a change in Federal legislation to repeal one of the central features of modern environmental law.
In the interview today, Mr. Chafee suggested that the Administration's proposed new rules had gone too far in putting health benefits before considerations of costs.
"That's the traditional view in the Clean Air Act," he said, "but to me it is not clear, from what is being suggested, that these changes will produce the health benefit that is suggested."
Ozone and particulates are among six forms of air pollution for which the Clean Air Act requires that national air quality standards be set at levels that adequately protect the public's health. States that fail to attain these standards, which are revised periodically to take account of new medical science, must take steps to control these forms of pollution.
The law allows for costs to be considered in selecting pollution controls, but not in setting the air quality standards themselves.
"There is liable to be some kind of a backlash around here" if costs and benefits are not carefully balanced, Mr. Chafee said. "These two proposals, taken together, are the biggest steps ever undertaken under the Clean Air Act. It is pushing the act to its limits."
While he said he does not want to see the Clean Air Act rewritten to give economic considerations equal weight to questions of health, he noted that a law enacted last year gives Congress the right to review all major new Federal rules, and to block those that are too big a burden on businesses.
"When these regulations come up for review, clearly one of the questions is the fundamental assumption of the Clean Air Act," he said. "Is the only thing that counts health? You can be sure there is going to be plenty of discussion of that."
That is a striking concession to the newly dominant Republican view of environmental policy, on the part of one of the party's old-line environmentalists, and it comes at a time when more conservative voices in the party have questioned his role as a committee chairman.
E.P.A. officials have defended the proposal that Mr. Chafee is questioning, saying that, as the law requires, it is concerned principally with health considerations, not costs.
But the agency has also said that the dollar value of the benefits, such as avoiding hospital care and absenteeism from school and work, vastly outweigh the estimated costs of pollution controls, especially in the case of particulates, which are blamed for thousands of premature deaths every year.
After years of review, the agency tentatively decided last month that the existing pollution limits for ozone and particulates, which come mainly from burning fuel, are not strict enough to protect the health of children with asthma, outdoor workers and the frail elderly.
If the agency finally adopts the proposal in June, after reviewing public comments, hundreds of communities, where at least 100 million people live, would be out of compliance with the Clean Air Act and would have to take further steps to clean up the air.
Mr. Chafee's draft of the letter, presented by his staff at a meeting this week at which E.P.A. officials briefed Senate aides, called for the agency to undertake "a broad review of the Clean Air Act, its purposes and authorities" while they were completing a final version of the proposals.
The letter echoed arguments against the proposal that have been raised by electric power companies, automakers and other manufacturers.
But Mr. Chafee's staff is now revising it to put these disputed points as questions rather than assertions.
The letter acknowledged that it is "certainly true" that the Clean Air Act requires air quality standards to be set at levels that would protect public health, and forbids the agency to set the goals based on the cost of attaining them.
"But that history was based on the presumption that E.P.A. could identify a standard that would eliminate all adverse effects, even to sensitive subpopulations," the letter said, "and that the standards would provide an adequate margin of safety."
"The science associated with your recent proposals," the letter continued, "requires that this presumption be set aside."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, a leading Republican environmentalist, has questioned the rationale for a new anti-pollution plan. (Amy Toensing for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "RATINGS: Voting Green" shows Senator John H. Chafee's ratings on environmental votes by the League of Conservation Voters, 1978-96.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS (59%); LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS (59%); LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; SOOT; SMOG AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); SMOG (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); PARTICULATE MATTER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; CHAFEE, JOHN H (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) CAROL BROWNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



140 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: A Buried Message Loudly Heard

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board since 1987, has long since learned that his every phrase will be transmitted instantaneously to stock and bond traders worldwide and that his merest inflection can send markets stampeding.
Deep into a speech he gave here on Thursday night, after touching on Alexander Hamilton, William Jennings Bryan and the Federal Reserve-Treasury Accord of 1951, Mr. Greenspan spent several minutes discussing, in his usual professorial style, the relationship between the economy and the financial markets, asking how to judge when "irrational exuberance" has pushed the price of stocks and other assets too high. 
 The impact of the 10 sentences he devoted to the topic was to leave markets reeling from Tokyo to London to New York, if only briefly, and to raise the question of whether Mr. Greenspan deliberately intended to suggest that stock prices are getting out of hand and need to be deflated somewhat.
Given Mr. Greenspan's long experience in his job, it is inconceivable that he was unaware that his remarks could unsettle the markets, people who have worked with him said. At the same time, though, Mr. Greenspan probably had no intention of starting a full-scale rout in stock prices, they said, and may simply have caught the markets when, after the rapid run-up in recent weeks, they were already moving down and needed only the slightest nudge to drop more sharply.
More likely, the people who have worked with him said, Mr. Greenspan probably wanted to issue a general reminder that excessively high stock prices could hold risks for the economy and could make setting interest rate policy even more complex than usual.
"My guess is that, yes, he was sending a quiet message, but that as usual the amplifier kicked in the moment it came out of his mouth," a former Federal Reserve official said. "It was not the kind of thing where the Fed chairman was screaming on a mountaintop trying to make sure everyone notices. On the other hand, I know he's not naive."
Indeed, although his public statements are relatively few, Mr. Greenspan is willing to use his considerable influence -- not only over the financial markets but in Washington as well -- on subjects he considers to be of real importance.
Just today, in a speech in Philadelphia, he addressed the looming crisis in the Social Security system and praised the report made to Congress this week by a panel of economists who said that cost-of-living adjustments for Government benefit programs were overstated and should be scaled back.
Mr. Greenspan has also been willing at times to prepare the markets for coming changes in interest rate policy, and some analysts said his comments Thursday night could be interpreted as a warning that the Fed would raise rates if the economy got any stronger and the risk of inflation increased.
Yet today's jobs report suggested that if anything, the economy is slowing, and some economists said the next move in interest rates could well be downward -- a step that would be bullish for stocks. So another interpretation would be that Mr. Greenspan was warning that he might not be able to reduce rates in the face of a slowdown for fear of driving the market into a speculative frenzy.
Whatever his intentions in his comments Thursday evening, Mr. Greenspan's language was provocative enough that it was almost certain to receive widespread attention.
"Clearly, sustained low inflation implies less uncertainty about the future, and lower risk premiums imply higher prices of stocks and other earning assets," Mr. Greenspan said in the speech. "But how do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values, which then become subject to unexpected and prolonged contractions as they have in Japan over the last decade?"
Yet Mr. Greenspan never specifically raised any concern about asset prices in the United States. And he went on to say that even if stock prices did collapse, it did not necessarily follow that the economy would be imperiled, citing its resilience following the October 1987 crash.
But he reiterated in more direct language than he usually employs that stock prices were something the Fed watched closely in assessing the health of the economy and the risks to stability.
"But we should not underestimate or become complacent about the complexity of the interactions of asset markets and the economy," he said. "Thus, evaluating shifts in balance sheets generally, and in asset prices particularly, must be an integral part of the development of monetary policy."
Predictably, though, it was not Mr. Greenspan's more subtle points that were highlighted in the reports of his speech that went whizzing around the world.
A few minutes before Mr. Greenspan delivered the speech, Reuters sent out the following report, based on an advance text: "Fed must be wary when irrational exuberance affects stocks, assets -- Greenspan."
Other news services quickly followed with similar reports. Within hours stock prices were tumbling in Australia, then in Japan. As the sun rose over Europe, markets dived there as well. A little over 14 hours after Mr. Greenspan rose to give his speech, the New York Stock Exchange opened, and the Dow Jones industrial average was soon down more than 144 points.
Stocks quickly began rebounding on Wall Street as investors decided that the weak job-growth numbers released this morning further reduced any chance that the Fed might raise rates. But the day's tumult made clear one peril of trying to communicate with markets and policy makers by smoke signal: the possibility that vague statements could be misinterpreted or overblown and cause a financial crash. In the absence of today's weak jobs report, some analysts said, there might have been nothing to keep stock prices from sliding hundreds of points.
There was considerable speculation on Wall Street that Mr. Greenspan knew at the time he gave the speech that the jobs report would be reassuring to investors, giving him leeway to issue a warning on stock prices. Mr. Greenspan does receive advance notice of major economic indicators, but it is unclear whether he knew about the jobs report before the text of his speech was distributed to journalists under an embargo shortly after midday on Thursday. Fed officials did not respond to an inquiry about when Mr. Greenspan received the report.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COST OF LIVING (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



141 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Asks a Question And Global Markets Wobble

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan used the word "bubble" while talking about stock prices, and financial markets around the world deflated yesterday, evidently fearful that Mr. Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, might do something to bring down the buoyant stock market.
But by the time the selloff had traveled around the globe -- depressing stock markets in Japan and Germany by more than 3 percent -- it had lost much of its force. And even though share prices opened sharply lower in the United States, they soon stabilized and then mounted an afternoon rally. 
 By the end of the day, the Dow Jones industrial average was down only 55.16 points, or 0.9 percent, to 6,381.94. At its low, reached shortly after the market opened, the index was at 6,292.50, or down 144.60 points.
The rebound came as the Government reported that employment in November grew by a modest 118,000, and the unemployment rate rose to 5.4 percent from 5.2 percent. Although there was a jump in average hourly wages, the report was interpreted as reflecting a weaker economy, making it less likely the Federal Reserve would consider raising short-term interest rates.
What set the markets off yesterday were remarks Mr. Greenspan delivered in Washington on Thursday night, in a speech to the American Enterprise Institute. There he did not say stock prices were overvalued, but he did ask, rhetorically, "How do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values, which then become subject to unexpected and prolonged contractions as they have in Japan over the past decade?"
He added that he would not be concerned so long as "a collapsing financial asset bubble" did not threaten economic harm. But he went on to warn against complacency that such a collapse would not harm the economy. [Page 35.]
None of that stopped traders, at least initially, from taking his remarks to mean that stocks were too high. It was a wild end to one of the wildest weeks in recent market history. The Dow was down 139.76 points, or 2.14 percent, in Wall Street's worst week since April. A lot of the bleeding took place earlier in a brief flurry on Tuesday, when the index plunged more than 40 points in the last 15 minutes of trading, evidently set off by a report of poor car sales from General Motors.
On Wall Street, as prices plunged early yesterday, many rushed to say that the bull market remained intact. Byron R. Wien, the chief United States equity strategist at Morgan Stanley, said that considering interest rates and inflation, share prices now were slightly undervalued. David Shulman, who holds a similar post at Salomon Brothers, said that he did not think prices would go much lower even though one common measure of the value of the market -- the ratio between stock prices and earnings on the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks -- last week was at a record level for this late in an economic cycle.
And Abby Joseph Cohen, the co-chairwoman of the investment policy committee at Goldman, Sachs, said that American stocks were "roughly at fair value now," in contrast to 1987, when they were overvalued.
Those three strategists, along with a number of economists, met privately with Mr. Greenspan on Tuesday. According to people familiar with the meeting, who spoke on condition on anonymity, they reviewed their market opinions with him, but got little in the way of a reaction.
That reaction may have come in his speech Thursday night in which he noted that "the sharp stock market break of 1987 had few negative consequences for the economy," but then added that "we should not underestimate or become complacent about the complexity of the interactions of asset markets and the economy." Such factors, he said, would influence monetary policy.
In financial markets, one of the nastiest things that can be said about a rising market is that it is a "bubble," conjuring images of a burst that would wipe out most of the gains in an instant. That is one reason Mr. Greenspan's use of the term caused such a severe reaction.
As reports of the Fed chairman's speech moved onto news wires about 7:20 P.M., New York time, there was little immediate market reaction. But the prices of stock index futures, which trade at night on the Globex electronic system, began to plunge about 7:45. And soon markets in Australia and New Zealand, which were already open for Friday trading, began to fall. Japan was next, and then Europe. American stocks opened sharply lower at 9:30 A.M., but soon began to recover, amid talk that the Federal Reserve dared not tighten credit.
"The Fed has no intention of tightening policy simply to push the equity market down," said Bruce Steinberg, a Merrill Lynch economist. "It will only tighten when it believes the inflation climate requires it."
Or, as Christopher Quick, who runs the New York Stock Exchange operations of Quick & Reilly Group, a discount brokerage firm, put it while talking to Bloomberg Business News, "Instead of raising rates, he is going to make speeches."
The bond market also moved lower -- with interest rates higher -- on word of Mr. Greenspan's speech, but it, too, recovered and ended the day little changed. Still, the yield on 30-year bonds, which traded as low as 6.32 percent earlier in the week, is now up to 6.51 percent. That setback in the bond market has also made some stock traders nervous.
An executive of one hedge fund, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he thought Mr. Greenspan would not tighten credit, but was trying to warn "that when it comes time to ease that he is going to be constrained because of a potential bubble in the stock market."
Louis Crandall, the chief economist at R. H. Wrightson & Associates, a money management firm, agreed that if the economy did weaken further, while stock prices stayed high, the Fed might not act. "If they think it is speculative, they will be reluctant to encourage that by cutting interest rates," he said.
It is highly unusual for a Federal Reserve chairman to even hint that stocks may be overvalued, simply because of the fear that a sharp market reaction would leave him responsible for the fall. Mr. Shulman of Salomon Brothers said the only other instance he could recall was a 1965 speech by William McChesney Martin Jr., then the Federal Reserve chairman.
Speaking on June 1, Mr. Martin referred to "disquieting similarities between our present prosperity and the fabulous 20's," although he did not comment on stock prices directly. That speech came during a market retreat, and seemed to contribute to it, with the Dow falling 8.4 percent from 918.04 the day before the speech to 840.59 on June 28. The market soon recovered, though, with the Dow almost reaching 1,000.
Despite the reassurance from big-name strategists, some traders yesterday, speaking privately, said they were still concerned about Mr. Greenspan's statements. They recalled that in 1993 he sent a number of signals that he was considering tightening credit, all of which were ignored by traders celebrating a big bull market in both stocks and bonds. When the Fed did tighten in early 1994, markets were stunned. The stock market emerged with only a little damage, but the bond market suffered much worse.
James E. Staley, the head of equity capital markets at J. P. Morgan, said he thought that "Greenspan probably got what he was looking for -- he got a pause in the market."
One economist who was at Tuesday's meeting with Mr. Greenspan, Richard Berner of the Mellon Bank, declined to discuss the meeting but said he thought Mr. Greenspan's remarks "could have been timed to skim off some of the speculative froth."
In recent months, large stocks have performed much better than small ones. But yesterday, most stocks moved in tandem, falling sharply in the morning and then recovering most of their losses by the end of the day. The Nasdaq composite ended down 12.44, to 1,287.68, and the Russell 2,000 index of smaller stocks fell 3.55, to 355.50. As with the Dow, the net drops were less than 1 percent.
Among the 30 Dow stocks, only two showed gains for the day. AT&T edged up 1/8, to 38 5/8, and Philip Morris rose 1 1/2, to 109 3/8, on hopes that a settlement of tobacco litigation may be possible.

GRAPHIC: Photo: 7:20 P.M. THURSDAY In Washington, remarks by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, were taken to mean that stocks in America might be overvalued. Speaking yesterday in Philadelphia (below), he did not elaborate. (Associated Press)
 
Graphs: "The Speech That Rattled the Markets"
 
8:30 A.M. YESTERDAY The Labor Department said unemployment rose to 5.4 percent in November, its highest level since July, and non-farm payrolls (below) grew by just 118,000 jobs. Both figures point to a weaker economy.
 
9:30 A.M. TO 4 P.M. YESTERDAY Extending the steep market declines worldwide after Mr. Greenspan's speech, the Dow Jones industrial average initially fell 144.60 points. It recovered ground as traders reacted favorably to the jobs report. At the close, the Dow stood at 6,381.94, down 55.16 points. (Source: KRF Money Center)
 
Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MORGAN STANLEY (58%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (57%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



142 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: November Labor Data Weak; Jobless Rate Edges Up to 5.4%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6

 BODY:
A Government report showing a lackluster job market in November reassured investors today that inflation was not a threat and helped to blunt a stock market dive prompted by remarks made Thursday night by the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
When the Labor Department reported today that the job market weakened a bit in November as the unemployment rate climbed two-tenths of a point, to 5.4 percent, traders and investors took comfort, evidently satisfied that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, would not raise interest rates simply to cool investor fever. By day's end, blue-chip stocks regained nearly two-thirds of their early losses, with the Dow Jones average down 55.16 points. 
 Securities traders were sanguine about the job report, the first broad depiction of the economy's performance last month, despite a sharp, 9-cent jump in average hourly earnings -- a figure that Government officials dismissed as a random gyration of little consequence so long as it was not repeated in December.
"Things are even weaker than they seem," said Irwin L. Kellner, the chief economist of Chase Regional Bank, citing among other things a decline last month in the number of people with jobs as gauged by the department's survey of households.
He called Mr. Greenspan's comments a deliberate "stroke of genius" that would allow him to avoid raising short-term rates at a time when the economy has already cooled substantially from its torrid spring pace.
The Clinton Administration, alert to the early market mayhem, fastened on the job data to head off what might have become panic.
"With the gyrations on Wall Street, the employment report is calm and reassuring," said Robert B. Reich, the Secretary of Labor. He advised investors to "take solace in the moderation in job growth."
Payrolls, which expanded a surprisingly modest 118,000 in November, have now averaged gains of 113,000 during the latest three months, compared with gains of 240,000 between January and August.
This, combined with other recent evidence of slackened growth, like lower sales of homes and cars, suggests that the Fed will be increasingly unlikely to tighten monetary policy because of an overly robust economy. And if Mr. Greenspan succeeds in "letting a little air out" of the stock market, as some analysts put it today, he may deflate confidence enough to remove any threat of overheating.
Indeed, speculation has begun to focus on the possibility that the central bank's next move may be to cut rates, though probably not as early as its final policy meeting of the year, on Dec. 17.
The Government released two other reports today that gave mixed signals on the strength of the economy. The Commerce Department said factory orders rose nine-tenths of 1 percent in October, a rise that was stronger than expected. Orders excluding transportation gained 2.3 percent. The Fed reported that borrowing by consumers rose by $2.2 billion in October. While the gain reversed a decline from a month earlier, it was at a pace that was slower than expected.
While basic job numbers were unremarkable, some of the lesser components showed unusually big swings. These included a decline of 361,000 in the number of part-time workers who would have preferred longer hours and a drop of 32,000 in the number of temporary-help jobs.
This could suggest that employers have decided to hire more people for the permanent ranks, but this possibility seemed undermined by a hefty increase in the last two months in the number of workers holding more than one job, many of those jobs presumably part time. The new total of multiple jobholders is 8,494,000, or 11.5 percent more than in November 1995.
The report also said that much of the rise in joblessness last month occurred among those 18 to 19 years old and that all of the increase was among those out of work for less than five weeks.
But despite the jump in hourly earnings and the fact that many teen-agers hold low-paying jobs, officials said they could find little evidence in the report of any effect from the Oct. 1 increase in the Federal minimum wage.
Officials also dismissed the earnings jump, which mirrored one in June, as probably a random statistical gyration of no consequence unless there is another sizable increase in December.
The payroll report showed 32,000 new health care jobs and 16,000 more jobs in finance, insurance and real estate. But retail jobs rose modestly, apparently because more holiday-related hiring than usual took place in October.
The jobless rate, calculated from the Government's survey of households, moved up to 5.4 percent from 5.2 as there was a rise of 244,000 in the labor force and 30,000 fewer people were employed.
By region, the jobless rate inched up in the Northeast by one-tenth of a point, to 5.5 percent, after the region briefly matched the national rate in September. The rate climbed two-tenths of a point, to 5.4 percent, in the South and three-tenths of a point, to 4.6 percent, in the Midwest. For the West, the jobless rate was 6.3 percent for the fourth consecutive month.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Heard Around the World" shows changer in the stock index for Australia, Japan, Germany, Britain, Hong Kong and the U.S. from Thursday's close. (Sources: KRF Money Center; Bloomberg Financial Markets); "Settling Down" shows the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds from 8:30 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Thursday and the U.S. jobless rate from Nov. 1995 to Nov. 1996. (Sources: KRF Money Center; Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 35); "The Labor Picture in November" shows employment and unemployment statistics for November. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); "Factory Orders" shows manufacturer's total new orders from May 1995 to Oct. 1996. (Source: Commerce Department); "Consumer Borrowing" shows net change in the total consumer installment credit outstanding from May 1995 to Oct. 1996. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT EMPLOYMENT (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (84%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BONDS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



143 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Greenspan Says 'Bubble,' And World Markets Deflate
 After Alan Greenspan used the word "bubble" while talking about stock prices, financial markets around the world deflated, evidently fearful that Mr. Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, might try to bring down the high-flying market. 
 The selloff lost much of its force after depressing stock markets in Japan and Germany by more than 3 percent. In New York plunging shares stabilized and then gained after the Government reported November jobs data that appeared to give the Fed no cause to push up interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average closed off 55.16 points, or 0.9 percent, at 6,381.94. [Page 1.]
 
Bond Yields Rise for the Week
The bond market was also buffeted, plunging in response to Mr. Greenspan's speech and climbing on the economic data to end the day mixed. Still, the yield on the 30-year Treasury, which was down to 6.32 percent earlier in the week, was up to 6.51 percent. [48.]
 
The dollar dropped, then rebounded, ending the day little changed, echoing the seesawing of stocks and bonds. In New York the dollar settled at 1.5463 German marks, down from 1.5516 marks on Thursday and at 112.89 Japanese yen, up from 112.46 yen. [38.]
 
U.S. Blocks H.M.O. 'Gag Clauses'
The Federal Government said that health maintenance organizations and other health plans may not limit what doctors tell Medicare patients about treatment options. Typically, doctors say, such "gag clauses" discourage them from telling patients about other treatments -- often expensive options -- not covered by the H.M.O. and are one way H.M.O.'s have kept costs down. [1.]
 
High Court Considers Cyberspeech
Setting the stage for a landmark ruling on First Amendment rights concerning free speech in cyberspace, the Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal by the Clinton Administration to a Federal court ruling that blocked enforcement of the Communications Decency Act of 1996. [1.]
 
MCI Wins Satellite Rights
The F.C.C. awarded MCI Telecommunications the right to begin direct broadcast satellite services, and some analysts said the ruling left the door open for the company to keep the licenses even after it is acquired by British Telecommunications P.L.C. But Time Warner, which had opposed MCI on the matter, said it would challenge the ruling when British Telecom sought to take over the licenses. [36.]
 
Chaffee Challenges Pollution Plan
The Clinton Administration's new proposals to tighten air quality rules have run into unexpected resistance from Senator John H. Chaffee of Rhode Island, a leading Republican environmentalist. He challenged the rationale for such costly steps. [8.]
 
Economic Appointments Weighed
President Clinton met with with his transition team in hopes of announcing some major economic appointments next week. He has told Charlene Barshefsky, the acting trade representative, that he would fight to secure her permanent appointment. Several candidates have been mentioned as possible successors to Laura D'Andrea Tyson as head of the National Economic Council. [9]

Charles Schwab & Company, the country's largest discount broker, said that it would start allowing foreign investors to buy and sell domestic stocks and bonds through its site on the Internet's World Wide Web next week. The move could give a large lift to on-line securities trading. [48.]
 
CSX Begins Second Conrail Tender
CSX said it had begun a second tender offer to extend its holdings to 40 percent of Conrail, which would complete the cash portion of its proposed $8.73 billion acquisition. [36.]
 
Natural Gas Futures Decline
Natural gas futures fell on the New York Mercantile Exchange after forecasts for warming temperatures next week reduced concern about dwindling supplies. Crude oil and petroleum products were mixed. [38.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,381.94 down 55.16
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.51% up 0.01
The Dollar -- 112.89 yen up 0.43

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BT (NYSE) (81%); BT (LSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BT GROUP PLC (81%); MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (87%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (86%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MEDICARE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GERMAN MARK (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (65%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (62%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (62%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (61%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



144 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Yanks' Tab With New Rules: $77 Million

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

DATELINE: DORADO, P.R., Dec. 6

 BODY:
Now that teams know the economic system they will play under next season, they will adjust their off-season strategy accordingly. Some will perhaps slash their payrolls to avoid paying taxes; some will perhaps spend more money on players knowing revenue sharing will bolster their resources.
George Steinbrenner is one owner who is looking to cut costs -- see the trade of Jim Leyritz -- and can anyone blame him? If the new system had been in effect this year, winning the World Series would have cost the Yankees $77 million. Even Steinbrenner might find that too steep a price for winning. 
 That total is based on figures found in different documents prepared by the Player Relations Committee, management's labor arm. It consists of one figure that the Yankees have to pay for 1996 and two that they would have had to pay if the new system had started this year.
The figure they have to pay:
The revenue sharing segment of the new collective bargaining agreement takes effect for 1996. Based on their revenue, the Yankees have to pay $5.8 million, the biggest share among the 12 richest clubs that will make contributions to the 14 poorest.
The figures they would have had to pay:
One is a higher payroll. If payrolls had been computed based on average annual value of player contracts plus earned bonuses for everyone on a team's 40-man roster, as they will be computed beginning next year, the salary segment of the Yankees' payroll would have been $5,000 less than $61 million. That is close to the $61,327,870 they did pay in salaries last season.
But besides changing the method of computation next year, the system will add $5 million in benefits costs to the total payroll, meaning the Yankees' 1996 payroll figured by the 1997 formula would have been $66 million.
The second figure is luxury tax. With a $66 million payroll, the Yankees would have been $15 million over the $51 million threshold designated for 1997. At a 35 percent tax rate, they would have had to pay taxes of $5.25 million.
Tax plus payroll plus revenue sharing equals $77 million.
And Steinbrenner voted for the agreement. In fact, he never wavered in his support of it, voting for the deal in a secret ballot at the owners' Nov. 6 meeting, when it was rejected, 18-12, and again in an open vote at the Nov. 26 do-over meeting, when it was accepted, 26-4.
"I think it says a lot about Mr. Steinbrenner as far as being the highest payee and agreeing to it," said David Cone, who is taking $6.5 million of Steinbrenner's money each year for three years, speaking during the annual meetings of the players association executive board.
"I think he feels like a lot of other free enterprisers -- believe me, there are more than you think on the owners' side -- who think we can grow our way out of this problem. A lot of these problems, if we work collectively with each other, we can grow our way out of the small-market problems."
However, Steinbrenner made clear today that he expects revenue sharing to be a short-term solution.
"The other teams have to be given the opportunity to correct their problems," Steinbrenner said. "Montreal is one of the biggest beneficiaries. But this can't be something that goes on and on forever. Then perhaps we should move the game to Russia."
Using the same theoretical method of computation on other teams, the Baltimore Orioles would have spent $71 million this year to get to the American League Championship Series, the Cleveland Indians $61 million to lose in the first round of the playoffs and the Atlanta Braves just under $59 million to lose another World Series.
Under the revenue sharing payments for 1996, the Yankees are followed on the contributors' list by Cleveland at $5.7 million, Baltimore at $5.3 million, Atlanta at $3.8 million and the Los Angeles Dodgers at $3.6 million. Payments of the other seven clubs range from $3 million by the Boston Red Sox to $500,000 by the Mets.
The Montreal Expos top the list of recipients with $5.5 million, followed by the Detroit Tigers, $5.1 million; Kansas City Royals, $5 million; Pittsburgh Pirates, $4.9 million; Minnesota Twins, $4.7 million, and Milwaukee Brewers, $4.6 million, down to $120,000 for the St. Louis Cardinals. The money the Cardinals will receive won't even pay for a rookie next season because the minimum salary will be $150,000.
The Colorado Rockies and the Florida Marlins are exempt from the revenue sharing plan for two years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FINANCES; WAGES AND SALARIES SPORTS REVENUES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; CONE, DAVID; STEINBRENNER, GEORGE M 3D GEORGE STEINBRENNER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



145 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: Pete Rozelle, 70, Dies; Led N.F.L. in its Years of Growth

BYLINE: By WILLIAM N. WALLACE 

 BODY:
Pete Rozelle, the commissioner who presided over the changes that made the National Football League the premier professional sports organization over the last four decades, died at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., yesterday. He was 70.
The cause was brain cancer. Mr. Rozelle had a benign brain tumor removed in December 1993. 
 During Mr. Rozelle's nearly 30 years as commissioner -- which spanned the terms of eight Presidents -- he oversaw a merger and expansion that more than doubled the size of the league, obtained the most lucrative television contract in sports, established Monday night football and introduced revenue-sharing among the teams.
On his watch, the N.F.L. rose to unprecedented heights of popularity, so much so that it surpassed baseball as the national pastime in the eyes of its followers. It also enjoyed huge economic success, attracting escalating television contracts, marketing income and expansion fees.
And his monument to the sport was the Super Bowl.
Soon after the first championship matchup between the well-established N.F.L. and the upstart American Football League in 1967, the game became one of the most watched television programs, garnering ever-higher rights' fees from the networks and escalating prices for tickets, of which there were never enough.
Indeed, when he surprised his employers -- the owners of N.F.L. teams -- by announcing his retirement on March 23, 1989, Mr. Rozelle said the strongest reflection of his tenure was not the merger with the A.F.L., which became final in 1970, or the expansion from 12 to 28 teams. He instead named the annual January game.
"The most fun thing was watching the development of the Super Bowl because the game is what it's all about," he said then. "I really felt a high at every Super Bowl with all the glitz and the spectacular halftime shows."
When Mr. Rozelle retired later that year, 9 of the 10 television programs with the largest audiences in history were Super Bowls, with No. 1 being the 127 million viewers for Super Bowl XX, between the Chicago Bears and New England Patriots, in 1986. In addition, four polls taken between 1978 and 1985 declared that pro football was America's favorite sport by increasing margins over baseball.
Mr. Rozelle was also consistent in naming the decision he most regretted as commissioner: playing N.F.L. games on Sunday, Nov. 24, 1963, two days after John F. Kennedy was assassinated. He called the decision a mistake even though he had sought advice from Pierre Salinger, the President's press secretary and a friend from Mr. Rozelle's days at the University of San Francisco.
"In the afternoon, I went to the Giants' game," Mr. Rozelle said in 1994. "We had a moment of silence. I could not concentrate on the game. I brooded about my decision the entire game. You have to understand, I was more than depressed over the assassination. I had lost someone whom I'd respected as the leader of our country, but I was also a close friend of the Kennedy family."
As a leader, Mr. Rozelle blended compromise with showmanship (he was an ever-present figure with an ever-present tan) and was a moderate man with more wit than ego.
His 29-year term as the leader of the N.F.L. came in two parts, the first beginning with his unlikely election on Jan. 26, 1960, at age 33, and including unprecedented success for the league and his C.E.O.-like control of it, along with his reputation as the most skilled head of any pro sports league. The second part of his reign, beginning in the mid-1970's, was less satisfying, with years of turmoil and litigation that led to his resignation.
Afterward, he largely withdrew from the professional sports scene. He is survived by his wife, Carrie; a daughter, Anne Marie, and two grandchildren.
Alvin Ray Rozelle, nicknamed Pete at the age of 5 by an uncle, was born on March 1, 1926, in Los Angeles and grew up in the suburb of Compton. He went to Compton Junior College and, late in World War II, servedon a Navy coastal tanker that, he said, never went far from San Pedro, the southern California port.
Sports were always an interest, if not a passion. He sometimes mentioned that Duke Snider, a high school teammate and later a Hall of Fame baseball player for the Dodgers of Brooklyn and Los Angeles, had knocked out his two front teeth in a basketball practice.
He obtained work as the sports information director at the University of San Francisco, at a salary of $250 a month, when its football and basketball teams were nationally prominent.
A publicity trip before a football game with Fordham at the Randalls Island Stadium in 1951, brought Rozelle to New York for the first time. He was impressed. "The big time," he later said.
Los Angeles was next, as the public relations director for the Rams, the N.F.L. team. After a brief interlude in public relations with a San Francisco firm, he returned to the Rams as general manager.
Bert Bell, who had been a respected N.F.L. commissioner since 1946, died suddenly while attending a Philadelphia Eagles game in October 1959. At a meeting to elect a successor the following January at the Kenilworth Hotel in Miami Beach, the owners of the 12 teams ended a nine-day deadlock by choosing Mr. Rozelle, a compromise candidate, on the 23d ballot.
The new commissioner immediately moved the headquarters from Mr. Bell's Philadelphia to New York and commenced a courtship of television that had far-reaching results.
The first of Mr. Rozelle's several fruitful petitions to Congress brought about legislation legalizing single-network television contracts for professional sports leagues. CBS signed up early in 1961 for an annual fee of $4.65 million to televise the 98 regular-season games. The last such pact of his era, among the three networks in 1987, returned $420 million annually. Such growth affected the value of team franchises which, in Mr. Rozelle's time, went up in transfer deals from $2 million to $80 million.
By initiating the teams' sharing of the revenue from television and with such later innovations as N.F.L. Films and NFL Properties, or contributions to other firsts like N.F.L. Alumni, N.F.L. Charities and the N.F.L. Hall of Fame, Mr. Rozelle put in place the all-for-one, one-for-all concept among the franchises.
He was hardly responsible for the emerging pervasiveness of television. But he did direct its orderly growth with pro football through the eras of blackouts of local teams, Sunday doubleheaders, the Monday night game beginning in 1970 and extended playoffs with wild-card teams.
His first landmark, however, had to do with people, not television. In 1962, he fined George Halas, a league founder and the owner-coach of the Chicago Bears, for abusing field officials. Mr. Halas accepted the fine with some grace and thereafter was one of his strongest supporters.
And because Mr. Rozelle was so shocked by the college basketball gambling scandals of 1951, he set up a security program that was far more advanced than others in sports. In 1963, he fined and suspended two stars, Paul Hornung of the Green Bay Packers and Alex Karras of the Detroit Lions, for placing bets on N.F.L. games. He said it was one of the toughest decisions he ever made.
The suspensions lasted only one season, the fines were minor ($2,000 for each player) and the betting incidents now appear small. But the suspensions were crucial, representing the establishment of his authority and the backing of the owners. "I felt relieved," he said.
But this commissioner had no relief in his attempts to resolve division-of-money issues between the owners and the players union that became heated in the 1970's. The so-called Rozelle rule, which required a team signing a free agent to compensate the player's former team, was declared illegal in a suit brought by John Mackey and other players that eventually cost the league $13.65 million in damages.
In an earlier blow, his policy of "league think" -- his mantra promoting unselfishness among the franchises -- was undermined by Al Davis, the maverick owner of the Oakland Raiders, in a 1983 court case that cost the N.F.L. about $50 million.
At the end of that season the Raiders, who had moved to Los Angeles against Mr. Rozelle's wishes, won the Super Bowl. He presented the traditional trophy to Mr. Davis with his congratulations in the customary locker room ceremony on national television.
"That was Pete's finest moment," said Ed Sabol, the N.F.L. Films founder. "He never flinched, while Al never looked him back in the eyes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pete Rozelle, left, congratulating Green Bay's Vince Lombardi after the inaugural Super Bowl game in 1967. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (52%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BASEBALL (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); BRAIN CANCER (72%); CANCER (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: ROZELLE, PETE JOHN F KENNEDY (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996



146 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 72; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4152 words

HEADLINE: Erin's looking for Leg-Rub Steve. Fly's looking for CD's to steal. Star's looking for Jaya. And it's starting to get cold.

BYLINE: By Ian Fisher; Ian Fisher is a reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
THERE ARE MANY WAYS TO EARN MONEY ON ST. Marks Place if you are young and have no regular place to stay, and Erin, who is known as "Nothing" by his fellow street punks, is waiting around to tap into one of the street's most regular, and lucrative, sources. "There is a guy," he says, "who is going to pay me $150 to stroke his leg." A grim prospect, but Erin says that others who have done it swear that the guy, called Leg-Rub Steve, demands nothing more than what his nickname implies. And in whatever short time things take with Steve, Erin figures he will earn more than he does in several days the only other way he makes cash: to hold out an empty paper cup and present himself -- a tall, healthy 19-year-old with green-blue eyes and bright green hair -- begging for spare change. New Yorkers, he says sourly, are not sympathetic.
"I hope this guy shows up," he says. "I want $150." 
 It is a chilly and drizzling early evening in late September. The usual crowd is out on St. Marks, which, despite the tourists and the Gap, still manages to beat a weakened pulse through subterranean New York. The punks often know each other only by their first names, real and made up. There is Erin, who came here two months ago after hitchhiking and hopping trains from San Francisco; his new friend Jaya, 24, a boarding-school graduate who became homeless a week ago, after losing his job as a cook, and Star, a delicate 16-year-old who walked out of her group home for troubled teen-agers in the Village last spring. Fly, 23, from north of Boston, says he wants to redeem his four-year heroin addiction by writing a book like Jim Carroll's 1978 memoir, "The Basketball Diaries."
"The only thing that worries me," Fly says, "is that it was done 20 years ago. Maybe it's not as shocking."
Fly is so high he is hunched in the rain like a lost old man. But he is coherent, and he is onto something. Nearly 30 years ago, the nation was aghast to find groups of young people taking drugs and skidding aimlessly around Haight Street in San Francisco. "We were seeing something important," Joan Didion wrote in "Slouching Towards Bethlehem," her essay on the dawn of hippie culture. "We were seeing the desperate attempt of a handful of pathetically unequipped children to create a community in a social vacuum." That same effort defines this transient band of young people who find their homes on the sidewalks, park benches and spare couches between St. Marks and the far East Village. But no one these days seems to think they are important, culturally or otherwise. They are, in fact, probably the most despised class in New York City, dismissed even in a neighborhood of misfits and nonconformists as "trustafarians," rich white kids playing at the edge of society (which is true of some of them). And they know it. Erin picked his street name, Nothing, deliberately. "We have it worse than blacks," he told me one night, with both pride and self-pity. "Not only are we looked down on by society, but we chose to be that way."
Erin, Jaya and Fly count themselves as "travelers." Which means that they travel, with their Mohawks and pierced foreheads and romantic visions of unity against the larger society, in little bands to the St. Marks Places and Haight Streets around the country. Few have jobs. Many do drugs, and they steal, hustle and beg to support their habits. The major tension in their lives comes from deciding how long to stay in any one city before moving on.
The disdain poured down on them, even by the more permanent squatters on the Lower East Side, seems a curious deflation in the value of counterculture. The time-honored mantra of "sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll" -- intoned a generation ago as the three beatitudes of progress through rebellion -- has lost its power to shock. It is not that there is nothing to rebel against, but that the previous generation exhausted the old methods. Rendering themselves homeless seems to them at least one way to push their discontent that extra step. But with so many truly homeless people living haunted lives in plain view, the choice looks helplessly middle class, which in the end is what the street punks are. They can always go home or, as passers-by love to remind them, get a job.
If they arrived on the streets for reasons that have always wedged teen-agers from unstable and unhappy homes, a common thread weaves through the stories of nearly all the street punks I spent time with over several weeks: that their parents used drugs, often openly -- one hallmark of that earlier generation's rebellion. Even their punk clothes and vague anarchic politics -- which crept to life two decades ago in these same streets and clubs around St. Marks -- are recycled. It just isn't as easy to be a rebel anymore.
Leg-Rub Steve, a middle-aged married man, is one adult they can usually count on, but at this moment even he is letting Erin down. He is late, and Erin, a hyperactive Northern California child, is getting antsy. For distraction, he tries begging from the hipsters on a rain-slicked St. Marks. They call it "spanging," a slurred "spare any change?"
"I want to work," Jaya says.
"We all want to get jobs," Erin says. "It's just really hard."
Two young women walk by, one carrying a wooden chair.
"You need that chair?" Erin asks with a smile.
"Spare some change, a shower and some food?" Jaya asks.
"And a hug?" Erin adds.
"And a hug," Jaya says.
Erin flips the hood of his green sweatshirt, a Batman logo on its back, over his head to keep dry. He earned nothing, and Leg-Rub Steve is nowhere in sight.
"It don't look like this is going to happen tonight," he says. "It don't matter."
 THE SUN IS SHINING, THE CLOCK ON THE Cooper Union reads 9:15 and under a scaffold hugging the old building, a flattened Mohawk pokes up from a blanket. Tim, who calls himself Salvage, has just woken up on the sidewalk. He politely asks a woman for the time. Yesterday was his 17th birthday. "I don't remember coming here last night," Tim says, embarrassed. "Last night was kind of a birthday celebration type thing. One of those excuses to get drunk."
He has been in New York since March, when he ran away from home, he says, because he did not fit into small-town Maine with his punk clothes and disdain for school sports. He is earnest and thoughtful; he drinks but does not take drugs. Some of the guy punks do not like him, calling him a "newbie" because he is new to the streets. But girls find him gentle, and Tim says the best thing that happened to him is meeting his girlfriend, who is 15 and lives with her parents on Park Avenue.
Tim is curiously aware of the limits of being a punk. He believes strongly in equality and what he calls "anti-racism," but to him anarchy is "a fantasy." Street life, he suggests, is a more basic distillation of American values: escape, finding individual worth, fun.
"When I first came here," he said a few nights earlier, "it was to my family: [Expletive] you. I can make it on my own. I felt I had something to prove to my family, to people passing by, if they take any note." But, he said, "the nonconforming thing wears off because you really are conforming to something else. The people who say I'm not punk -- I'm just 'in,' but they wear all the same gear. It's a subculture. I'm not conforming to mainstream society in terms of what they want me to wear. I'm living my life, doing what I want, and that's what it should be all about."
Although his girlfriend is rich, he does not take money from her.
"I don't spange much because I really don't like doing it. I eat out of trash cans a lot. Pizza. Hamburgers. Fries. Soda. Every now and again you luck out and find a pack of cigarettes.
"It's survival of the fittest. Those that aren't fit have to go home."
 "THEY ARE THE VICTIM MENTALITY TAKEN TO the nth degree," Legs McNeil says at Cafe Mogador in the East Village. "You know, like after the nuclear war, there are people living in the rubble? They live as if the apocalypse has already come."
McNeil, 40, has been sober for years now and is often credited with coining the word "punk" as it applied to the bands in the mid-70's that played jagged music, took lots of drugs and believed, roughly, in the release of believing in nothing. But he does not like street punks. A friend of his tells a story why: McNeil and Richard Hell, the guitarist for Television and other bands from that era, were walking near Tompkins Square Park recently when a punk asked for change. They refused. The punk yelled, "Have a nice day, yuppies!" A third person with them stopped and pointed to McNeil, who is thin and raggedy and looks nothing like a yuppie. "Are you kidding?" he said to the punk. "That guy invented you."
"They have Mohawks, but they have no relationship to what the Sex Pistols mean," says McNeil, who was an author of "Please Kill Me," a book about the early punk days. "I don't think they are an accident. Culturally, if you look at it, everyone is depressed. Everyone is hopeless. I just can't subscribe to being a victim. I just don't find it interesting. I have always felt that young people should be the perpetrators."
He says that the traveler scene is sad because, aside from a few bands, it is not moored to anything new. What it suffers from most, he suggests, is a lack of imagination. "The person who invents a new way to rebel," he says, "is going to make a lot of money."
 ERIN IS JUMPY IN THE SUBWAY SHOP ON St. Marks, sweating and flushed one Friday night as he orders a steak and cheese. "I love your organization," he tells the guy behind the counter. "If I were to die and go to heaven, I hope they are serving Subway."
He needs to eat something heavy because, he says, he is trying to quit heroin and the withdrawal is giving him diarrhea. "I'm kicking right now," he says. "I just want to get off it. It's so available here. You've got a big heroin potluck."
The Subway worker asks if he wants mayonnaise. "Mayonnaise. Yes. I would like mayonnaise upon my sandwich. That is pretty and the most beautiful sandwich."
Erin's short road to New York began five months ago in San Francisco, where he had been living on the streets and in and out of squats for more than two years. On his way to a beer olympics in the Middle West, he stopped in Eugene, Seattle, Minneapolis, Kansas City, St. Louis and Indianapolis and finally landed in New York. He had no idea St. Marks existed.
The long road began when he was very young in San Jose, Calif. Erin summed it up one day a few weeks after I met him with his characteristic flair for drama. "I think my dad's the only good thing about my family -- I want to meet him," he said. "My mom says he beat me, but I can't remember."
His mother, he said, is a serious drug addict who dragged him from home to home, living for a time in a sleazy hotel. He hinted at neglect. "I used to be so dirty as a kid no one liked me," he said one night. "Now it's socially acceptable to be dirty. You know, punk rockers are dirty." Today he is the classic punk: Mohawk, pierced eyebrow, nose and lip, Doc Martens, a seriously bad attitude that he tames into charm on command.
At 15, he began to use heroin. Now he finds that addiction means an extra complication: a loss of independence. He has recently been staying with a woman named Sue. Sue, 25, is darkly pretty, if a little overweight, a vulnerable big-sister type who found she could make more working in a restaurant on St. Marks than using the architecture degree she just earned. She met Erin in the restaurant one night and took him in, going so far as to shoot up with him. Now she buys for both of them. "I really want to get my life together," Erin says over his sandwich. "As of now, I'm a slave to some girl."
Jaya walks into the Subway. They have known each other for only a week but have become compatriots. Erin got Jaya off the street for the last few days by setting him up with one of Sue's co-waitresses, Melissa. Jaya ordinarily keeps himself under enough control that it is hard to tell if he has had a few drinks or not. But he has also just discovered heroin.
"I did it for the first time two nights ago," Jaya says. He rolls up his sleeve to examine a red mark. "Is that where you stuck me?" he asks Erin.
"No, there's no vein there," Erin says.
Erin and Jaya make plans to go to the Mars Bar, on Second Avenue and First Street, after Sue and Melissa get off work at midnight. Erin finishes his cheese steak.
"The healthy choice for a new generation," he proclaims.
Jaya is one of the more privileged kids on the street. Even if he is not as much of a cliche as one hanger-on, an N.Y.U. freshman who carries a cellular phone and likes to show off her French, "avec accent Parisien," Jaya admits to graduating from the Phelps School in Malvern, Pa., a boarding school for boys with learning disabilities, and spending two years at cooking college. While Erin embraces street life, Jaya, in his good-natured, let-it-slide way, seems unsure why he is there.
Losing his job and his apartment in Brooklyn "was just bad luck," and it is hard to get him to say much more. It is as if he woke up one day without a home and found, by complete accident, a ready-made street family that took him in. But he lived briefly on the street before, in New York and Florida. He mentions this detail: When he was 5, his mother and sister died in a car accident in England. His father is a computer executive in Albuquerque, N.M.
Just after midnight, with Erin nowhere in sight, Jaya picks up Sue and Melissa on St. Marks to head to the bar. In a good mood, he finds a huge pink cardboard tube that he uses as a megaphone to address people shopping at a midnight sidewalk bazaar on Second Avenue.
"This is my voice enhancer," Jaya intones. "Spare some change for a real voice?"
At Fourth Street, an older homeless man whose clothes barely hang on puts the question to him: "Spare some change?"
"Can't help you, brother," Jaya says.
Three ceiling fans churn gray air over a few sleeping patrons in the Mars Bar, dank as a filmy aquarium. One man is slumped against a case of beer. At 12:50, Erin arrives, announcing that another attempt to quit is over.
"I ain't kicking," he says. He goes to the bathroom, lays his cigarette on the sink and searches his pockets. "If I have it," he says. "I hope I still have it. Oh, no." He attacks every pocket. "I just bought it. I just bought it too. Please, I didn't lose it." He finally digs up a waxy packet. "Ahhh," he says.
He adds water to a bottle top, empties the packet, sharpens the needle on a matchbook. Blood backs into the syringe when the heroin plunges into his arm. His nose sweats. "O.K.," he says. "It's done." "Ain't too glamorous," he says. "That's just part of the downfall of us."
Back in the bar, he puts a dollar into the jukebox, playing a trio of punk songs. He kisses Sue. Jaya and Melissa drink vodka.
"For the record," Erin says, "I am really high."
 FLY IS EATING A TACO WITH JOE, 18, AT TEX Mexican food one afternoon after a long rainy night. Fly's day since he woke up, damp on a ledge inside a vendor's stand on St. Marks, went like this: stole three CD's from Tower Records on Broadway. Sold them at another music store for $5 each. Bought a $10 bag of heroin and one of cocaine. Hung out with Joe. With varying degrees of lawlessness, the traveler's day is a yawning stretch of hanging out, punctuated with enough effort to find a friend or drink or scrounge up dinner.
Fly arrived a few weeks ago after trying to commit suicide in Boston by overdosing on heroin. When he woke up not dead, he "freaked out" and hopped on a bus to New York. He has been a heavy user for four years, but New York has made him cut down: when he first arrived, he was stealing $100 worth of compact disks a day from Tower, doing five or six $10 bags a day. But he got arrested and now does only two or three bags because he is afraid to steal any more than that.
"I don't want to get arrested again," Fly says. "I like my freedom."
He eyes a baseball cap on the windowsill.
"Whose hat is this?" he asks.
"I don't know," Joe says.
"Give me my bag," he says, and tucks the hat away. "It's used, so I probably can't sell it." But, he adds, "if someone offers. . . ."
Fly and Joe, who has hitched and train-hopped around the country, talk about why they are travelers. To them, life is a choice between absolute freedom and something resembling mind control, with not much in between. "A lot of us believe the government is messed up," Joe says. "It's trying to control you."
"They want us to be slaves," Fly adds. "It's a total setup, us doing this. But I like it. If you take the average dope fiend, all the effort he puts into getting dope -- he'd probably be a millionaire. It's basically a 9-to-5 job."
 "WHAT AN INTERESTING NIGHT LAST NIGHT," Tim says. He is in the Port Authority with a wrinkled $33 ticket to Maine in his pocket. It's getting chilly, and he's going home. "I met these two kids from Jersey. Two skinheads. They were talking about skinhead stuff, bands and stuff, and I discovered they were Nazis! I never saw the day when I would sit down with a Nazi and drink with them! I ended up sleeping in their car. One of them was actually all right."
The day before, Tim said goodbye to his girlfriend, who had to run off to a Gaelic class. He has not decided how long he will stay in Maine, but it will be at least until he earns enough money to get an apartment with Star and two other girls. His mother got him a job delivering papers for $70 a week. Tim carries his bag to the bus. The driver gives him a chilly look as he takes the beaten ticket.
"What did you do to this?" the driver asks. Tim says nothing and boards the bus at noon.
 ON ST. MARKS, ERIN SAYS HE HAS A NEW plan: a guy named Linus has a car, but it doesn't run well. "We're going to leave in a couple days," he says. "As soon as someone gets enough [expletive] to steal a battery." They plan to go to New Orleans for Halloween, where a bunch of travelers are headed before New York gets too cold. Erin has no intention of telling Sue, who has actually started to talk to him about getting a job.
An older punk named Eric asks Erin about Leg-Rub Steve because it finally happened last night: Erin spent a few hours in Steve's apartment in Brooklyn, where he drank beer and rubbed Steve's leg. "He hated me," Erin says. "But he didn't let me go. He's a creep."
Leg-Rub Steve, it turns out, gave Erin only $80, and the money has caused a crack in his friendship with Jaya. Earlier that evening, Jaya told me that he was disgusted because Erin did not share his booty much with the others, especially with Sue. "He didn't take her out or anything. He bought her some beers."
Sue steps out of the restaurant for a break.
"We're going to get some liquor," Erin tells Sue.
"What a surprise," she says.
 STAR IS FURIOUS WITH JAYA ONE SATURDAY night. Over the last week or so, they have become an item, and earlier this evening, he dropped off his new puppy, which he got free from a crackhead, with her at the health food store where she works. She and Jaya had agreed to meet after work -- he was going to a punk show at a squat -- but he has not shown up.
Jaya thinks Star is 17. She is really 16, with maroon hair and a ring through her nose. But she is very much a little girl: her favorite Winnie-the-Pooh character, she said one day, is Eeyore.
Her parents are divorced; she says her mother was a junkie. She does not get along with her father's wife, and for that, she says, her family put her in two "psychiatric hospitals," in Coney Island and the Village.
"The psychiatrist said there is pretty much nothing wrong with me -- just a normal kid who hates her stepmother," she says. Since April, she has lived in a junkie squat, in a cave with Tim in Westchester County and for the last few months at a friend's mother's house.
Star's patience was wearing thin, but finally just before midnight, she spies Jaya. He leans against a parking sign to stay upright -- normal behavior for many street punks but unusual for Jaya. "Jaya!" Star yells. "I'm going to kill him! Is that him?" Jaya looks like he was mugged: he has a deep scrape next to his chin. His nose is swollen, and there are cuts under his left eye.
The street punks close in like medics on a battlefield, removing safety pins from their clothes to fix his ripped pants. Even Erin, who is not speaking to Jaya, seems concerned.
"I drank a lot," Jaya slurs -- two pints of vodka. And he shot a bag and a half of heroin. He got cut falling over a fence.
"Your dog is fine," Star says testily. "I fed it."
"Help me up," he says. "Oy vey!"
Star backs away. "I hate it," she snaps. "Dope became so popular with little kids on the street. Maybe it was they thought it was cool. No matter how many of my friends did it, I never will. Seeing my mom shoot up when I was 5 was not a good experience."
Erin meets Sue in front of the restaurant at midnight. They shared two and a half bags of heroin the night before and she feels miserable. "I've been throwing up all day," she says before they head home. Since they met, she has spent nearly $500 on drugs and drinking, but does not count it as a loss because Erin has made her happy, a welcome change.
St. Marks settles down for the night. Jaya, Star and the puppy sit under a metal staircase. He drops his head into her lap.
"You're mad at me," he says.
"Yeah, a little."
"I'm sorry," Jaya says.
"I know."
 THE PLAN IS SET: ERIN IS LEAVING SOON for New Orleans, where he can be free again. He's not going to tell Sue. "I don't want my girlfriend to know this. She expects me to drastically change. From being a nothing to getting a job and having an apartment. I like her so much. But there is no way in hell she's going to leave with me."
But, he says, "I've had fun. I'm better off than when I came to New York. I got new shoes. I got some pants. I got rid of my scabies. I ate a lot. Gained some excess weight for the winter." He lifts his T-shirt to show a little belly. He has been arrested eight times, another reason to go.
As much as he likes New York, he rips into one of his tirades about New Yorkers.
"They should be glad," he says. "I make them feel superior every time they see me. They say, 'Well, at least I'm not him.' "
Since he got hurt, Jaya has slid into the start of a flu and the sense that all is falling apart. He needed money so badly he sold his puppy for $30 to a guy named Marshall, Leg-Rub Steve's new favorite boy. Jaya's on the street every night; he can't find anywhere to crash. One night the rain drives him into the Jolly Roger bar, where he tries to convince the bartender to let him sleep on the couch.
"Today was the worst day," he says. "I need to get a job. I can't do this anymore. I'm going to have a nervous breakdown or something. I want a TV. I want a bed. I want a VCR. I want some video games I can play. I want a grocery store where I can shop." His bones hurt.
I see him the next day on St. Marks. He had called his father, who took the edge off by wiring him $60.
"Western Union is a miracle thing," he says, wondering if anyone has seen Star.
 SUE IS A WRECK. SHE DROPPED 30 POUNDS, WAS hospitalized for what she called an "ulcer attack," then was fired from the restaurant after her mother told her boss that blood tests came back with traces of heroin. She refuses to believe the story on St. Marks: that Erin and Jaya are friends again and took off for New Orleans just after Halloween. "I really don't want to believe he was lying," she says.
Before he left, Erin borrowed $60, saying he wanted to visit his father in Vermont for what was supposed to be their first meeting since he was a boy. Then he called twice from Washington, saying he hopped the wrong train and had been arrested. She has not heard from him since.
Sue says that she and Erin had talked a lot about how they were so different, but that in the end they were looking for the same thing: "someplace to fit into. When I starting hanging out with him I was really happy. It felt really good."
Sue talks about how Erin described his life, or "life style," as she puts it. "It's really primitive. But if it has value, I don't know. If you would ask society, I guess they would say no, that they were wasting their lives. But I don't really think so."
Star is more resigned. She is mostly sad that Jaya never said goodbye. "I live only four blocks away," she says one wet night on St. Marks.
The good news is that she and another girl are getting an apartment on Dec. 1. She spoke with Tim, who's in Maine and promised to share the rent. Everyone else may be gone, but Leg-Rub Steve still prowls St. Marks. "I saw him walking down the street like two weeks ago," Star says. "Walking with a little boy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Being and nothingness: Sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll just ain't what it used to be. Top, from left: Homelessness as a metaphor for discontent; after midnight; Jaya, 24, his face cut after a night of vodka and heroin. Middle, from left: Star, 16 going on . . . ?; Sue, 25, works in a restaurant on St. Marks; Jaya, the boarding school grad. Bottom, from left: Star left her group home last spring; Erin, 19, and Sue were a brief item; keeping the kids moving. (pg. 73); Living the high life: Shooting up "ain't too glamorous," says Erin, after another failure to kick his habit. He says he wants to get his life together, but the "big heroin potluck" in the East Village seems to impede his progress. (pg. 75); When the going gets cold, the cold get going: Tim, 17, has learned that not conforming to one life style just means conforming to another. And with winter in the wings, he figured it was a good time to get on a bus and head home? (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD KEATING/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 76)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; EAST VILLAGE (NYC); LOWER EAST SIDE (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HOMELESSNESS (88%); CHILDREN (86%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (68%); TRENDS (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (62%); HEROIN (62%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



147 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 64; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 5502 words

HEADLINE: The Ellwoods;
Mugged by Reality

BYLINE: By Jason DeParle; Jason DeParle is a staff writer based in Washington for the Magazine.

 BODY:
NOT LONG AGO, A CLASS OF HARVARD GRADUATE students joined their distinguished professor in a study of public attitudes toward welfare. That is, they opened their notebooks and switched on a tape of "Oprah."
Things got nasty fast. 
 A white guy in polyester sprang from the studio audience to condemn his sister-in-law, the "welfare lout" who "bilked" taxpayers for "new teeth." A white woman with beehive hair griped about food-stamp shoppers in "an Eldorado Cadillac." A black single mother with a low-paying job screamed at a black single mother with no job at all. "You have to show your children something better!"
For 60 long minutes, the halls echoed with working-class complaint.
"Why have all the babies?!"
"Get a trade!"
"Don't sit on your butt!"
As the insults mounted, the welfare mothers who had been invited on the show looked ever more angry and confused. One appealed her case to Oprah, complaining that the griping audience wanted her children to "to look nasty and have dirty faces." But the doyenne of daytime TV, herself a working woman, did not seem sympathetic. She faced the camera, locked eyes with America and asked the country this question: "Should you be going to work while someone on welfare's sitting at home with their feet up?"
The students scribbled, giggled, gasped and frowned, but none seemed more captivated than the man in the back row, a 43-year-old economist slouched low in his seat and nervously bobbing his knee. David T. Ellwood, the Malcolm Wiener Professor of Public Policy and the academic dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government, was studying this particular "Oprah" broadcast for the 10th time. "Each time it's more painful," he whispered, jotting notes in the dark. "Why so much anger? What's going on here?"'
Perhaps no one has pondered those questions with more boldness, creativity and good intentions than Ellwood himself. And perhaps no one feels quite as unsettled at the nation's latest answers. To an uncanny degree, the story of the recent welfare revolution is a story of David Ellwood's ideas. Or, as he views it, a corruption of his ideas. More specifically, a corruption of his idea that cash assistance to poor women and their children should come with time limits. Now that those limits are the law of the land, Ellwood says, "I do lie awake at nights, worried about what's going to happen to our children."
The tale of Ellwood's journey has all the trappings of a Washington thriller -- tense meetings in the Oval Office and a triumphant ride on Air Force One -- yet the arc would be familiar to the ancient Greeks. The professor had an idea. But the idea gained a life of its own, to the profound dismay of the professor.
As a young academic, Ellwood wrote "Poor Support" (Basic Books, 1988), an instant anti-poverty classic that called for time limits on welfare, but only as part of a much broader plan to shore up the lives of the poor. Ellwood envisioned universal health care, expanded training programs, wage supplements, guaranteed child support and last-resort Government jobs for those who could not find them. He pictured a system that "ensures that everyone who exercises reasonable responsibility can make it without welfare."
For a while, the "Ellwood plan" shimmered only as a distant nirvana for policy wonks. But by the 1992 Presidential campaign, a wonk none other than Bill Clinton was stealing Ellwood's lines, promising to "make work pay" and to defend the "people who play by the rules." Soon he stole Ellwood too, bringing him to Washington to help fulfill Clinton's pledge to "end welfare as we know it."
But by the time Ellwood resigned from the Government last year, his proposal was in tatters, and Washington was converting the welfare debate into its own version of the "Oprah" show. Taking Clinton at his end-welfare word, the new Republican Congress pushed through unprecedented cuts in anti-poverty spending, and invited states to weave -- or to shred -- whatever safety nets they chose. Instead of time limits followed by a work program, Congress created time limits followed by . . . nothing. As Clinton went along, Ellwood, back in Cambridge, was fruitlessly urging him to resist.
Like Ulysses on the isle of Corfu, Ellwood now finds himself marooned, on the foreign shores of the "Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunities Reconciliation Act of 1996," and he is picking his way through its 400 pages, searching for hope in the wilderness. But Ellwood also can't help looking back. When talking about the shipwreck that landed him here, he sounds more numb than angry -- as though he's studying his own emotions from the same perplexed distance that he studies the "Oprah" show. "You do go over in your head all the things you might have done differently," he says. "You can't help thinking, 'Oh my God, all that work, and this!" He hesitates for half a second, then finishes the thought. "And I do have some frustration and some anger and some guilt -- all those things -- all tied up about it."
 WALKING INTO A ROXBURY WELFARE OFFICE ONE DAY LAST month, Ellwood had his own chance to play Oprah. Local officials had assembled a half-dozen recipients to chat about the system, and they were gathered around a basement conference table, eyeing him warily. He was not quite sure where to start.
"Let me just say there are lots of people in Boston and Washington, trying to make changes, who've never been to a welfare office, and so forth," he said. "You meet with a governor and a President or senator, and they don't know what they're talking about. As far as I'm concerned, you guys are the real experts."
The room was silent. Ellwood tried again. "Here I am, a guy at Harvard," he said . "Not exactly connected to the system. And yet I'm involved in making decisions. I feel like I gotta spend time, talking and so forth."
It was as awkward as the start of a junior-high-school dance, but it worked. Ten minutes later, the women couldn't stop interrupting one another. "Once you get on, you tend to get a little lazy," a mother of four who has collected a check for five years said. A woman in a training program agreed. "People think they can sit and have a football team full of kids, and the state's gonna take care of them," she said. Few subjects are as close to Ellwood's heart as the need for child support enforcement, and he beamed as he discovered an ally. "Momma's home with the babies, while Daddio's out at Wonderland," she said. Aim for his wallet, and "jack-his-pants-up!"
As he pledged thank you notes to all involved, Ellwood couldn't have been more pleased. The morning-long session confirmed his three central beliefs: 1) the current welfare system is a disaster; 2) the new law will make it worse; 3) his original plan wasn't just a better solution, but one the recipients themselves would support. "They all said that time limits of some sort make sense," he said , the professorial authority returning to his voice as heads back to Cambridge. "I emphasize: of some sort. Once you asked, 'What if they just cut people off after two years?' they all said that'd be a disaster."
It was a subjective read of a highly unscientific sample -- but plausible. Most of the women did confess to feeling trapped by a system that gives something for nothing, and they at least professed to find time limits reasonable. ("If you can't get it together in two to three years, there's something wrong with you," one had said.) At the same time, the details of their misfortune were complicated, and not necessarily set right by a kick in the pants. Two of the five women had asthmatic children, whose care sometimes made it difficult to work. While one had a mother who can baby-sit, the others called reliable child care as elusive as a reliable man.
The answer, in Ellwood's view, is as clear as always -- a mutual responsibility pact in which poor women agree to work, and taxpayers pledge the health care, child care (and, if necessary, the jobs) they need. As it happens, there's nothing in the new welfare law to prevent states from concocting their own version of the Ellwood plan. But there's also nothing to keep them from offering a 30-day time limit and a bus ticket out of town. "States can do the right thing in this bill," he says. "But the incentives are to do the wrong thing, to just cut people off the rolls."
The law is really two separate initiatives, joined at the hip. The first is a set of Federal budget cuts, designed to save $55 billion over the next six years. Of that, $24 billion will come from programs for legal immigrants, primarily Medicaid, food stamps and Supplemental Security Income. Another $23 billion will come from other food stamp recipients, including families with children. When the cuts are fully implemented, the food stamp program will have shrunk by nearly 25 percent.
The second part of the bill covers what people traditionally consider "welfare": payments to single mothers with children. Here the changes are more significant still, but for altogether different reasons. In the short run, the Federal money actually grows. But the old program (Aid to Families with Dependent Children) has been abolished, and the new one (Temporary Assistance to Needy Families) shifts autonomy almost entirely to the states, with long-range incentives to spend ever less.
States can immediately cut their own spending by 20 percent. They can shift 30 percent of the Federal money to child care programs for other constituents. They must limit any family's cumulative, lifelong benefits to less than five years (though 20 percent can be exempted for hardships). And while states are supposed to put their recipients to work by the year 2002, the fine print tells another story. States can meet this standard either by placing families in a work program (an expensive option) or finding ways to shear them from the rolls (a cheap one). "Not only do we allow states to cut people off -- we encourage them," Ellwood says.
Between the benefit cuts and the time limits, the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan research group in Washington, has predicted that as many as 2.6 million additional Americans will fall into poverty. The key word, of course, is "predicts." No one knows for sure what will happen, and not every advocate is predicting disaster. "I think there are more opportunities to do good things with this bill than Davis realizes," says Toby Herr of Project Match, a training program for long-term welfare recipients in a Chicago Housing project. Even Ellwood thinks that a few states will design better systems. And where they don't, some of the poor may prove more resourceful than their advocates think. "There's a lot of people out there that don't like cleaning nursing homes," one of the Roxbury women had said. "Let me tell you, if it's two years and you get nothing, they'll start liking that nursing home."
But as Ellwood notes, the long-range logic suggests even deeper subsequent cuts. As an "entitlement," welfare spending used to rise with caseloads; as a "block grant" it will have to compete with other, more popular programs like TK [education grants, etc.]. "Who's going to stand up and say, 'Cut Medicare instead?' " Ellwood says. By the time he reaches Cambridge, his morning bounce has faded to a mid-afternoon mournfulness. "The welfare system is in a death spiral."
 "I CAN'T SAY I'M A RAGS-TO-RICHES SORT OF STORY," ELLWOOD BEGAN one afternoon, his feet up on a coffee table in a fourth-floor office that looks out at the resplendent Cambridge hills. "I grew up in an upper-middle-class family where everyone believed in a form of public service. Interestingly, it wasn't a family where everyone was volunteering all the time, though we did some volunteer work. It was a family where everyone was focused on systemic change."
His characterization underscores the struggle Ellwood faces, as a big-thinking poverty fighter from a privileged Minneapolis suburb. The notable thing about his childhood home wasn't just its affluence, but its splendid, benevolent isolation. The Ellwoods had their own wooded acre on Christmas Lake, a half-hour from downtown but a world away from its concerns. "I now prefer skiing in 'deep bottomless powder,' " he wrote to his grandparents when he was 13. "This weekend I debated on the question of 'compulsory service for all citizens.' " Even when he ventured overseas as a high-school exchange student, Ellwood wound up in Sweden. It's possible to read his subsequent career as an effort -- noble or naive, incisive or quixotic -- to understand the murky realms of race, class and human need from which his own upbringing protected him. "It was a great life, an idyllic life, one I can't reproduce for my kids," he says.
What truly set the Ellwoods apart wasn't just the neighborhood, but an ethic of public service that dates back generations. His father's father was a physician who frequently treated the poor, and his mother's father was a preacher. But the ancestor with the truly metaphorical occupation is his great-grandfather, Willard Ellwood, a church architect. In sacred form or secular, the Ellwoods have been sketching blueprints for public virtue for the past four generations. The oldest of three children and the only son, David was saddled from the start with the mixed blessings of his early intellect. Though he can now appear confident bordering on brash (his detractors often say "arrogant"), he spent his childhood, in his mother's words, as "a bit of a loner." His sisters, Cynthia and Deborah, smart achievers themselves, prospered with public educations. But by the sixth grade, David was eager to attend the elite Blake School, an all-male academy. He more or less kept to himself, and excelled in math and science. "I definitely wasn't very good with girls," he sighs. "I guess I was kind of a nerd."
And one with a formidable father, obsessed with changing the world. David Ellwood was entering his adolescence just as Paul Ellwood was firming his conviction that he held the cure to the nation's health care system, with something he dubbed the "health maintenance organization." The dinner hour became a lecture series on his conversations with the Nixon Administration, which was giving his cause a hearing. "He would talk about it constantly, just constantly," Ellwood says. Among the characters in the story was someone at the Department of Health, Education and Welfare called "the assistant secretary for planning and evaluation." Seeing the power the crucial gatekeeping post held over his father, Ellwood aspired to hold it one day. (He succeeded at the age of 39.)
When he entered Harvard in 1971, Ellwood was still a chemistry buff who had stunk up his parents' home with mad-scientist experiments. But as college chemistry grew increasingly theoretical, he found a more useful tool for decoding the complex world. "What I like about economics is that it starts with the basic incentives facing individuals -- then what's neat is it aggregates those choices, up to the systemic level," he says. He emerged in 1975 as a newly minted summa graduate, less socially awkward than when he entered, but scarcely a portrait of sophistication.
He had a reputation as a computer whiz, and a consulting firm with a Medicaid contract invited him to apply for a job. He showed up for his interview in a plain white T-shirt. "He seemed incredibly bright, but a little naive about what this world involved," recalls his supervisor, Marilyn Rymer. Shortly after their work ended, she discovered his interests had expanded beyond computer models; at one point, Ellwood asked her to estimate the probability that "something would work out" between them. As a 29-year-old professional woman looking at a doughy 21-year-old computer buff, Rymer, 51, thought the probability close to zero. But to let him down easily, she said 10 percent. They married four years later. They have two daughters, Malinda, 17, and Andrea 12, and Ellwood is still known, in affectionate moments, as "Mr. 10 Percent."
The bond with Marilyn gave Ellwood not just his family but also a guide to anti-poverty policy. She had begun her career in a Georgia welfare office, and a subsequent consulting project took the two of them to welfare outposts across the south. Ellwood enrolled at Harvard as a graduate student in economics, and wrote his doctoral dissertation about jobless black teen-agers. He began a teaching job at the Kennedy School in the fall of 1980, just shy of his 27th birthday.
At the time, the welfare debate was deadlocked. Conservatives complained about long-term dependency, while liberals insisted that most recipients left the rolls in two years. In a groundbreaking study with Mary Jo Bane, a Kennedy School colleague, Ellwood returned to his computer and proved them both right. Most of the people who went on the rolls did leave in two years. But a substantial minority stayed. That meant the majority on at any given time were in the midst of a long-term spell, one that averaged eight years. "Welfare had two faces," he says.
The "dynamics study" had all the hallmarks of Ellwood's subsequent work: it was empirically grounded, nuanced, accessible and relevant. And it allowed readers of varying ideologies to read into it what they would. Though it was never published in an academic journal, the study went on to a samizdat life that changed the welfare debate of the 1980's. Though liberals still emphasized the considerable turnover, it became increasingly difficult, in light of Ellwood's data, to dismiss dependency as a figment of conservative bias.
Politically, however, Ellwood remained a liberal, defending the system in public talks. As he did, he says, "I got creamed," by social workers and recipients themselves. "I realized I had to do some basic rethinking." The result is Ellwood's landmark text, "Poor Support," whose double-edged title delivers his guilty verdict on the welfare system. While it's an impressive book, its appeal resides less in policy esoterica than in its measured common sense. "We want to help people who are not able to help themselves, but then we worry that people will not bother to help themselves," he writes. His solution isn't to reform welfare -- and inevitably bog down in that tradeoff -- but to alleviate the need for it by shoring up all low-wage workers and single parents.
Ellwood suggested wage supplements, health insurance, job training, child care, better child support collection and public-service jobs -- policies he hoped would raise incomes without removing the incentive to work. With those "poor supports" in place, he suggested, the country should replace an open-ended welfare system with time limits of two or three years. The idea of time limits was not a new one. But with the endorsement of a prominent, center-left Harvard academic it quickly gained new credibility. "Some of this is just Minnesota, O.K.?" he says. "Minnesotans basically believe you oughta help your neighbor help himself or herself. I just think that's as American as apple pie."
Soon Ellwood himself was making an appearance on "Oprah." Knowing that his time on the air would be minimal, he shortened his message to bumper-sticker length. "If you work, you shouldn't be poor," he said. (That is, raise the minimum wage and tax credits.) And "one parent shouldn't be expected to do the work of two." (Get tough with child support collection.) In truth, many people had a surer knowledge of the welfare program's intricacies. But Ellwood could articulate a plausible solution in crisp, appealing terms. He had a winning rap.
By the 1992 campaign, it wasn't just the broad outline of Ellwood's plan that was coming out of Clinton's mouth, but the aphorisms too. Yet the two had met only in passing, years earlier, and they never spoke during the campaign. Ellwood was thrilled, and a bit alarmed -- especially by the most potent Clinton sound bite of all, the pledge "to end welfare as we know it." Ellwood feared this was so vague it could be taken to mean anything, including just literally "end it." (In a recent speech he called the Clinton phrase "vacuous and incendiary.")
Many liberals had harbored similar anxieties about misinterpretations of Ellwood's work. They welcomed his calls for increased spending, but worried that conservatives would hijack the time limits while forgetting everything else. Now Ellwood was fretting, too. "I don't think these are issues that are best discussed under the klieg lights and sound bites of a Presidential campaign," he told me at the klieg lights and sound bites of a Presidential campaign," he told me at the time. A month after the election, he was introduced at a meeting as the godfather of time-limited welfare. "I deny paternity," he said.
But as he was leaving his office a few weeks later, a call arrived from Washington. It was Donna E. Shalala, the incoming Secretary of Health and Human Services. She had spoken to the President, and he had approved her suggestion that Ellwood join the Administration to help craft the welfare plan. The title: assistant secretary for planning and evaluation. Reminded a few months later of his previous doubts, Ellwood's new enthusiasms were on full display. "Now I work for the President," he said.
 BUT HE WAS farther from Minnesota than he knew. Shortly after arriving in Washington, Ellwood was escorted into the inner office of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, where he was greeted with a sour prediction. "I'll look forward to reading your book about why it reform failed this time," Moynihan said, referring to welfare reform. Clinton's promise -- two years of training, followed by a work program -- would cost billions. And in Moynihan's view, the public was looking to spend less on welfare, not more. "There simply is no money," Moynihan said. "None! So what are you going to do?"
Ellwood remained optimistic. From his perspective, the Federal budget seemed vast, and surely with Clinton's commitment such details could be worked out. In the spring of 1993, Clinton named Ellwood as one of three leaders of the task force that would draft his bill. (The other two were Bruce Reed, a White House aide, and Mary Jo Bane, who had also become an assistant secretary of health and human services.) But the task force soon grew unwieldy, with three dozen members from across the Government. And suffering from high-level neglect, the task force took a year to finish its work.
Moynihan's gloomy forecast proved prescient. The search for the $10 billion to $15 billion Ellwood needed for training, jobs and child care bogged him down in months of bureaucratic wrangling. The enemies of the plan repeatedly leaked his lists of possible tax hikes and spending cuts, leaving him embarrassed and preoccupied with a secrecy he could not preserve. And his relationships quickly frayed on Capitol Hill, where Ellwood's professorial air was often interpreted as arrogance. Unlike some Washington officials, who use their egos as weapons, Ellwood seemed disturbed to discover his condescending side, and he sought colleagues' advice about setting things right.
Ellwood also found himself fighting an ideological battle with Reed, whom he once jokingly called "a right-wing hack." Though their relationship was friendly and respectful, Reed was, in fact, considerably to Ellwood's right. When he joined the task force, Ellwood was pushing hard for a system of "child support assurance," in which the Government would make the payments itself if it failed to collect from absent fathers. The idea was a centerpiece of "Poor Support," and in Ellwood's mind far more important than time limits. But Reed nipped the notion in the bud. He called it welfare by another name, and stressed that Clinton had never endorsed it.
As the process progressed, Ellwood discovered that Reed had a much different vision of time limits in mind. To Ellwood, the idea meant that after two years, recipients would have to work; but the Government would insure that the work existed, and that the checks would continue to flow. To Reed, "ending welfare" ultimately meant just that: ending welfare, not continuing it through some make-work scheme. At some point, he argued, eligibility for the work program itself should end. The details sound trivial, but they cut to the philosophical core: Is there a safety net or not? The two ultimately appealed to Clinton himself, who in a final Oval Office meeting essentially split the difference.
The process was long and harrowing and sometimes embarrassingly public, but in the end it produced a plan. There was less money for child care than he had hoped, and guaranteed child support survived only as a small experiment. But Ellwood still glows when he recalls the final product. "I'm incredibly proud about the welfare bill," he says. "We all liked it. The Cabinet liked it. And I think it's where the public was at." Clinton flew to Kansas City to unveil the plan in June 1994, and Ellwood went along to brief him aboard Air Force One. He split off in Missouri for an appearance on "McNeil-Lehrer." "And I fly home alone in a middle seat on an absolutely packed airplane -- and I have to say, I just loved it," he says. "There was some Calvinist side of me, feeling like, "O.K., now come back down to earth. This is only stage 1.' "
Indeed, it was. The political landscape had been transformed in the two and a half years since Clinton had first pledged to "end welfare" -- transformed, in no small part, by the pledge itself. Clinton's bold oratory, followed by years of delay, had created expectations that his plan could not fulfill. Never mind that it was far tougher than anything a President had ever proposed, including Ronald Reagan. The Republicans were drafting their Contract With America, which went beyond work programs to endorse absolute bans on cash aid to young mothers.
Liberal House Democrats feared that an election-year welfare debate would be a disaster for them.. Eager to defer consideration of the bill, they needed a target, and they found one in Ellwood, the Harvard man with the plan. In four days of hearings in July 1994, Representative Robert Matsui of California leapt on Ellwood's every word. Some people might even question Ellwood's motives, he said, and assume he was "pushing welfare this year to enhance his resume." The message was clear: the bill wasn't moving.
It died a few months later when the Republicans captured Congress and started laying their own plans to "end welfare." The Democrats could no longer indulge their internecine disputes, and Ellwood and Matsui, along with many others, united to play months of defense. But Clinton himself showed little stomach for the fight. At the nadir of his political fortunes, he was wary of struggles that might further tag him as liberal. And as a former governor, he had more trust than his aides in unfettered state choice. His moment having passed, Ellwood resigned in July 1995. A year later, six decades of welfare policy was swept away, while Ellwood, vacationing on his father's Wyoming ranch, penned a lonely op-ed to urge a Presidential veto.
What, he now asks, went wrong?
It's a more complicated question than it may seem, and inevitably, some fingers already point Ellwood's way. By polishing the notion of time limits with his liberal academic gloss, they say, Ellwood was asking for it. "I remember saying to him at the time that in the real political world, the time limits would survive, and the rest would be brushed aside," wrote Frances Fox Piven, a Columbia University sociologist, in a recent issue of The American Prospect, the liberal journal. In a subsequent interview Piven went on to say that Ellwood was "in a wonderland" to think that policy experts could keep control of a national welfare debate. "This is a pretty nasty and ferocious politics," she said. "Welfare has always been a scapegoat."
Ellwood, for his part, is willing to say, "I was incredibly naive about a number of things," but whether he means it is another question. He says the public's disenchantment with welfare was so severe that some upheaval was bound to occur. While he sees mistakes, they are mostly at the level of strategy and tactics. He faults himself for not building better relationships with legislators and reporters. And he faults the senior-most White House officials for not lending the effort more support. Had the Clinton bill been introduced a year earlier, Ellwood says he believes it would have passed. "The values and the direction made sense at many different levels," he said. "It really was the proverbial hand up, not a hand out."
To believe, as Ellwood does, that he got agonizingly close is to believe several things. One is that the country is willing to spend more to make welfare reform work. Another is that the public will tolerate the inefficiencies of a Government jobs program. A third is that the country can debate welfare without unleashing the demons of the "Oprah" show, especially the unspoken racial animosity that inevitably comes into play. It's an uphill struggle to believe those things, but not, in the end, impossible. Though the taxpaying public feels angry at the welfare poor, it feels guilty about them as well. It wants to spend less; it wants to help more. Its attitude is volatile and contradictory and hard to predict.
But susceptible to leadership, especially in the hands of a politician as skillful as Clinton. Sure, Ellwood had a streak of naivete and a weakness for optimistic forecasts. But he was hired to be an assistant secretary for planning and evaluation, not a political consultant. Clinton's words radicalized the debate, not Ellwood's, and the responsibility for the subsequent politics resided with the President himself. The Ellwood plan always had a chameleon quality, and in Clinton it found a chameleonlike champion, whose true coloration remained impossible to fix. Did he abandon his original vision in favor of election-year votes? Or does he really believe the bill he signed will do right by the poorest Americans?
"Clinton is a complicated man, with some wonderful good qualities and some very troubling ones," Ellwood says with a sigh. "I really believe there are some core convictions there, but I also believe, obviously, those are more flexible than I wish they were. I think that Bill Clinton honestly believes he did the right thing in signing the welfare bill. What I don't know is: 'If Bill Clinton were not President of the United States running for office, would he still feel that way?' "
 IT WAS COLD IN Cambridge on the night Clinton captured 379 electoral votes and a coveted second term. While Clinton was in a Little Rock holding room, contemplating his place in history, Ellwood was walking across the Harvard campus, with his hands jammed in his pocket.
He has spent much time recently trying to conceive viable "fixes" to the bill. The problem is he can't think of too many, especially when he applies a political reality test. "This bill is not going to get fixed," he says.
But Ellwood's spirits brighten a bit when he turns away from the law and back toward the country that produced it. He says he believes that taxpayers have a legitimate gripe: they want the poor to work.
Of course, as Ellwood well knows, that begs the bigger question: how to make work work? How to move four million low-skilled women, many of them borderline disabled, into a labor market where entry-level wages have been declining for two decades? How to lift their households out of poverty?
The more Ellwood mulls those questions, the more he returns to the blueprint in "Poor Support": tax credits, child care, child support, medical care -- in exchange for a commitment to work. For all his disappointments, some of his plans did make it. The new welfare law seeks to improve child support collection, and many of its provisions were borrowed straight from Ellwood's bill. ("One parent shouldn't be expected to do the work of two.") And for all the spending cuts, the country has significantly bolstered the wages of workers; it has raised the minimum wage and expanded a tax credit program that now offers payments of up to $3,500 a year. ("If you work, you shouldn't be poor.")
With those contrasting legacies in mind, there's a way to start interpreting Ellwood's tumultuous ride through the "Oprah" studios of life. Haltingly, imperfectly, the public may still be willing to help those who help themselves. To support programs for workers, that is. But the country does not seem as willing as he had hoped to make sure that jobs exist. And it seems especially unwilling to fret over the fortunes of those who do not or cannot work. Even if they have children. Even, for that matter, if they wind up on the streets. And that's just not what an optimistic reformer from the Minneapolis suburbs counted on a decade ago, when he bet on poor support.

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Ellwood. (Photograph by Robbie McClaran for The New York Times) (pg. 65); David and Paul Ellwood. (Ellwood Family) (pg. 66); Clinton and Ellwood forged a bill in 1994. Then the Republican arrived. (The White House) (pg. 67)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; LAW AND LEGISLATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); WOMEN (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); 

PERSON: ELLWOOD, DAVID T; DEPARLE, JASON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ELLWOOD, PAUL M JR (DR) BILL CLINTON (59%); JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



148 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 116; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: LIVES;
Generational Pioneer

BYLINE: By Edward Hoagland; Edward Hoagland teaches literature at Bennington College and is the author, most recently, of "Balancing Acts."

 BODY:
Our parents stand for previous generations until they die, whereupon we have to. Driving down to New York for a holiday, I call and ask my daughter if I can spend the night at her place. She has just turned 27 and is a graduate student in history. She says yes as usual, but with a demurral that startles me: "I'm just afraid you won't realize I'm an adult now." Because I fathom what she means, what's startling is that I like the man she has been seeing, have assumed for the past year that they were sharing their lives at his place or hers and am in favor of postponing such a major event as marriage until one's 30's. Why does she doubt my approval of the firming of the arrangement?
Two by two is a good general rule, more joyful and resilient, I tell her. I've seen solitude in the city begin to lame people even as young as she is insidiously for the future; most grown-ups shouldn't live alone. I thought I'd said this, but we speak to our children so frequently in our imaginations, we seldom know for sure what's said. And maybe she wants an old-fashioned dad who will maintain a reassuring cleavage between the generations. 
 Over supper, I tell them both that at about their age I lived on a Greek island for half a year with a lovely Englishwoman. I cared a lot for the women who were kind enough to keep me company before I met my daughter's mother, and want the salient episodes known to her before I die. Since her mother's death three years ago she has been meeting some of the men who preceded me, but tells me with a laugh that she doesn't wish to meet these old friends of mine yet. Children want their parents' lives to seem pristine before they were born. So did I, but it was easier then.
Love and work are what matters. But the density of sensations, the ant-army of information, the pincushion of modes of communication in which we find ourselves embedded make it hard to focus. So many forces try to atomize us that we need our memories evermore. Not provisional or erasable, they don't downsize in a stumbling economy or fibrillate with the collective cacophony from Washington. Dead friends can rise as allies, and landscapes are reconstituted; nostalgic cities become fun again. In fact, genealogy -- which once struck me as a veiled excuse for snobbery, or a gene bank of angina -- is intriguing, like a hand of cards. It's a narrative of kindred spirits or flamboyant behavior. I'd been a writer-traveler for umpteen years before I paused to notice that I was not the "first." There'd been a pioneering archeologist in the family who had made 40 trips to Mayan sites in Central America, whose voice in his four books sounds a bit like mine. Another voice, still closer, in the diaries I have, is a young man's, an aspiring foreign correspondent who was murdered at 29 in Inner Mongolia in 1905.
Insecurity as much as arrogance causes many of us to spurn our family histories until we feel we have defined ourselves. The logs of a cousin who was an R.A.F. pilot in World War II and was shot down over Java, then over France -- or the regimental history of the unit my great-grandfather Hoagland served in at 18, when he fought at Shiloh, losing a knuckle and an eardrum -- might have intimidated me until I had done some living myself. Likewise, the harrowing experiences of a missionary cousin who cared for Armenian and Greek orphans on the Black Sea and in Beirut and Smyrna, where in 1922 she witnessed the horrific massacres and burning of that city by the Turks.
I have a Michigan businessman's letters from 1865, and a diary of the preceding year kept by a grocer's wife who crossed Missouri and Kansas while Gen. Pap Price's Confederate raiders were trying to intercept the wagon trains. Also a diary of a cousin who accompanied her husband, a cotton dealer, from Pittsburgh to New Orleans on a riverboat in 1840 at Mardi Gras.
My mother used to recommend that I pay attention to these, and probably my daughter will start examining everything after I've grown too old to urge her on, because that's how it was with me. My mother had a stroke and right away I dug out and pored over piles of stuff.
Reading letters that my great-grandmother Blendina Hikok left in a box in 1911, I learned that by sheer coincidence her own great-grandfather lived right in this town 200 years ago. The local historical society confirmed it, and I found his marble-topped brick grave in an abandoned cemetery and laid a flag on it on Memorial Day. (May somebody do the same for me in the year 2196!) But the most cheerful omen is that the house he built for his family after the Revolution is standing, and some of the meadowland he farmed alongside the Walloomsac River is still open and, in the summer, full of bobolinks and larks.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Illustration by Bob Hambly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (54%); 

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FAMILY (90%); GENEALOGY (78%); CITY LIFE (72%); 

PERSON: HOAGLAND, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



149 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 68; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 5086 words

HEADLINE: The Ellwoods;
But What About Quality?

BYLINE: By Lisa Belkin; Lisa Belkin is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine. Her last article was a profile of Christine Todd Whitman.

 BODY:
TUCKED NEAR THE END OF A WINDING PRIVATE road above Jackson Hole, Wyo., is a house that is more a monument than a home. Its towering entrance is meant to evoke a Shinto temple. Its walls of windows are designed to capture the soaring views of the Tetons. Its living room is anchored by six majestic pillars. Thirty feet high, they are the trunks of 200-year-old spruce trees, still bearing scars from the Yellowstone fires of 1988.
The house belongs to Dr. Paul M. Ellwood Jr., who has quietly and incrementally helped transform American medicine over the past 25 years. Four years ago, he founded the Jackson Hole Group, the champion of managed health care in this country, and this house is a paean to that cause. It was built during the brief moment when health care reform was at the top of the national political agenda and when everyone who was anyone was making the trek to visit Ellwood, the man who started it all. 
 That is why the kitchen contains two refrigerators and two dishwashers -- the better to feed 40 or so people who regularly gathered here for marathon meetings. It is also why, at the height of the frenzy, there were eight telephone, fax and computer lines in a house technically occupied by only one semiretired man. And it is why the upstairs guest rooms differ by thematic decor (Wild West, Victoriana, Far East, African Safari) but not by size.
"If you have one bedroom that's bigger or nicer, the other guests resent it," says Ellwood, 70, who outfits himself -- denim shirts, cowboy boots, hand-carved belt buckles -- as carefully as he outfits his home. "So all the rooms have the same square footage and they all have the same amenities."
There is only one small problem. He has to move.
"I can't afford it," he says, giving a tour of the $2 million house that is already filling with packing boxes. "The plan when I built it was that I would only need it for five years and then the meetings would be over and its purpose would be served."
In other words, the house worked out perfectly but the timing didn't. It is a theme that comes up often during a visit with Ellwood: good plans, important plans, that do not work out exactly as planned. It is true of the house, which never quite became the launching ground for President Clinton's health care reform program. It is equally true of the man, who started out to be a doctor like his father but who has not treated a patient since 1969.
Most significantly, it is true of the idea. Ellwood says he set out to create a system of competition between health care providers based on price and quality. What he has seen evolve instead is a system of competition based almost completely on price. And while the incentives under the old system were for doctors to do what many would describe as too much, the incentives today are for doctors to do what many would describe as too little.
"Only a portion of the dream that I had for the American health care system has been realized," he says. "There's a huge piece of unfinished business."
He plans to finish it. The man who gave Health Maintenance Organizations their name is now championing Facct, shorthand for the Foundation for Accountability, an entity he hopes will put quality back into the health care equation. First, he says, Facct will define quality. Next the group will figure out how to measure it, then fight to get those measurements to consumers.
He dismisses as pessimists those experts who question whether quality can ever be measured realistically. He describes as cynics those critics who say that employers will never consider quality over price when purchasing health care. But what if those pessimistic cynics are right? Could it be that his decades of work have been spent shaping a system as flawed in its own way as the one it aims to replace?
It is a sobering question. An urgent question. One that is redefining the health care agenda. It is why those who spent the first half of this decade debating health care costs will spend the second half arguing about health care quality.
"It scares me to think of a system based completely on price," says Margaret E. O'Kane, president of the National Committee for Quality Assurance, which accredits H.M.O.'s. If buyers look only at price, she says, "the providers of high quality service will be driven out" and the only providers left will be the ones most willing to sacrifice care.
Ellwood does not go so far as to use the word "scared." But he confesses that he is tired. He talks of how draining it was to come so close -- to believe that the President would propose his ideas as law and that Congress would pass them -- and then to watch the opportunity slip away. And about the frustrations of discovering, after working for a lifetime, that he has only got halfway to the goal. Standing in his grand house, built in celebration of an unfinished cause, he is dwarfed by what he has created.
"It's been using a thousand little drops to create a wave," he says, his tone somewhere between optimism and exhaustion. "I guess it's worked, so I guess I'll just keep doing it."
 THAT THE DEBATE OVER MANAGED CARE HAS ENTERED THIS SECOND stage means, among other things, that the first stage is over. Managed care is no longer a model proposed for the American health care system. It is the American health care system. Nearly 60 million people are enrolled in managed care insurance plans and three in four doctors participate in at least one managed care program.
Much of the credit, or blame, can be handed to Paul Ellwood. If you currently choose your primary care doctor from a list of "plan participating" doctors, and if you have to get approval from that doctor before seeing a specialist, and if you have to get approval from your insurance company if that specialist recommends surgery -- all this is largely because Paul Ellwood started thinking nearly 30 years ago.
He was barely out of his residency when he became frustrated with the traditional fee-for-service system. Trained in pediatric neurology and physical medicine and rehabilitation, Ellwood was the director of a Minneapolis rehabilitation hospital at a time when breakthroughs in that specialty were allowing more patients to live at home. But because insurance companies would only pay for patients who were in the hospital, what was good for patients became a financial threat to Ellwood's clinic.
Ellwood soon hit on the idea of admitting children with learning disabilities for diagnostic stays that would be paid for by insurance. "We started doing better economically," he remembers. "But there were little kids crying every place. I had done this not because it was best for the kids, but because of the perverse incentives in that system."
For the next several years, he deconstructed and reconstructed the health care system in his head. So, when happenstance placed him next to a Nixon Administration official on an airplane in 1970, he had a lot to say. He described his vision of a system based on market forces. Care would be provided by groups of doctors, which he named Health Maintenance Organizations, or H.M.O.'s. Those groups would compete for patients, seeking to provide the best care at the lowest price. Although none of the building blocks of the plan were new, the integrated concept was, and it became the cornerstone of President Nixon's health policy.
The Nixon plan was eventually defeated in Congress, but that did not stop Ellwood. Another chance choice of seat, this time on a ski lift next to Alain C. Enthoven, an economics professor at Stanford, led him to concentrate on convincing the players rather than the politicians. "I realized the market, not the Government, was what would bring this about," he says.
Ellwood began inviting leaders from the private sector to his vacation condo in Jackson Hole to talk about his ideas. At first, no one came. Then, as health care costs began to soar to an ever- higher percentage of the gross national product, many people came.
Eventually, Ellwood made health care reform his full-time job, taking a seat on the board of a ski corporation, moving to Jackson Hole and supporting himself and his cause with well-timed real-estate investments. But it was not until 1992, when Bill Clinton rode the group's vision to victory, that the Jackson Hole Group became something more official than a group of guests in Ellwood's living room.
The group, with Ellwood as its president and C.E.O., was registered as a 501C4 not-for-profit corporation and based in Ellwood's imposing house. Much of the "managed competition" plan that the Clinton Administration eventually proposed had its origins in Ellwood's living room.
"The air at those meetings would be really electric," Enthoven remembers. "It seemed like finally the stars had aligned."
They hadn't, and the Clinton plan self-destructed during the fall of 1994. But managed health thrived in the absence of Government regulation. In the past two years, the number of patients insured by managed care plans has grown by about one-third. And as it grew, health care costs slowed: in 1995, the average premium rose only 2.1 percent.
There are no similar measurements, however, of the effect of managed care on quality. The reason costs have come down is because the current system limits use of the most sophisticated and most expensive technologies. It is generally agreed that those high-cost procedures were being done too often. But are they now done often enough?
It is clear that the plans are not making quality their priority. Robert H. Miller, a health economist at the University of California at San Francisco who has studied the health care market in 15 American communities, explains: "First, they are competing to prove that they are the least expensive. Next, that they have a provider within 10 to 15 minutes away from a patient. Last, on what we call the 'warm and fuzzies,' to make the patient feel good about the care. But quality, that's the rub. The competition is just not taking place there."
What is less clear is whether this lack of attention to quality results in a decrease in quality. Studies of patient health under managed care show a wide range of results. In general, they seem to indicate that managed care is good at keeping healthy people healthy and not as good at treating people who are seriously ill, but not all the studies agree even on that.
As a result, H.M.O.'s are being judged by what Ellwood calls "attack by anecdote," a fusillade that is gaining in force. In the past two years, countless scenes of dissatisfaction have played out in public: patients testifying before Congress about care they see as life saving and the companies see as experimental . . . newspapers filled with stories of patients with rare conditions denied access to the premier specialist in the field . . . laws prohibiting the discharge of women 24 hours after they give birth.
"There is a feeling that providers are looking out for the bottom line and no one is looking out for the patient," says John C. Rother, the chief lobbyist at the American Association of Retired Persons who calls the current system "unmanaged care." A New York Times poll conducted in June echoes that dissatisfaction. It found that 32 percent of the sample thought their health care had become worse since 1992, while only 12 percent felt it had got better.
Ellwood bristles at this kind of talk, calling it "post-managed competition backlash," a fear of change rather than a scientific reflection of the workings of a system. "Most of the stories are generated by those who have been adversely affected economically," he says.
"Outcomes under traditional fee-for-service medicine were not always ideal," he adds. Remember the decades of rising malpractice rates because so many doctors were being sued? Ellwood asks. And the dangers that made reform necessary in the first place -- unnecessary surgeries, for instance, or learning-disabled children who were hospitalized for no reason.
"Don't compare what we have now to some imaginary perfect system that never existed," he warns. "I don't think the overall effect of managed care has had a detrimental impact on health care, or on health."
But he acknowledges that neither he nor anyone can know that for certain. And that, he says, is why it is time to concentrate on the lapsed half of his initial health care equation. Time to compete on quality as well as on price.
However, while critics stress quality measurement as a way to fix the system and protect the patient, Ellwood, ever the champion of managed care, sees it as a way to prove that the system works and to silence naysayers.
"The greatest threat to managed care is its success," he says. "It's cutting costs, it's threatening to doctors in terms of their incomes, it's of concern to some groups who are used to limitless care on demand and it's vulnerable to unjustified attacks. We're working with anecdote here when we should be working with epidemiological evidence."
 PAUL ELLWOOD RECKONS THAT HE WOULD HAVE BEEN A FOREST ranger if he had had a choice as a young man. He offers this while driving through the three-store town of Hoback Junction, just before turning south toward the one-store town of Bondurant, which he will soon call home. He has purchased an old homesteader's ranch, which is in the middle of a complete renovation. He is only slightly daunted by the fact that just two or three prospective buyers have even toured the house he already owns up in Jackson Hole.
As he steers his Chevy Suburban along the breathtaking route, he talks passionately about mud slides, cattle grazing rights, microclimates and the lack of road maintenance in most national parks. He clearly never felt the same passion about becoming a doctor.
"Even in medical school, I wondered whether I really wanted to be a----," he says, leaving the sentence dangling on the final word. He knows how many doctors accuse him of being hostile toward his own profession.
He starts again. "I wondered," he says slowly, "whether being a doctor was an appropriate career for me."
He is equally hesitant when asked what drew him into medicine in the first place. "Let's just say . . . the expectation: 'You're gonna be a doctor like your father, aren't you Paul?' "
His father, Paul M. Ellwood Sr., was a general practitioner who worked in the clinic of a rough ghetto neighborhood in Oakland, Calif., until he was well into his 80's. "A medical missionary type," Ellwood says.
Although he credits his father with "my social orientation -- that you're supposed to devote yourself to improving people's lives," he says that in most other ways his father's approach to medicine "was not a very appealing model."
"He was a nice family doctor," Ellwood says. "He felt he had to spend an hour with every patient. I remember we'd be on our way for Christmas Eve at my grandma's house. But on the way, my dad always had to make house calls and they would take an hour. And so my sister and I would sit in the car just going crazy." Although he became a doctor, the small private office that drew his father and so many other doctors into medicine never held any attraction for him. Instead, he spent his career running clinics and then foundations. "To be an independent practitioner," he says, "was never a goal. The autonomy aspect of it meant nothing to me."
Ellwood went on to advocate a health care system that all but obliterated his father's traditional world of medicine. It is a change that has not been well received by most doctors. On the ride to Bondurant, I come clean about my own background: a family that includes a pediatric cardiologist, a psychiatrist, a general practitioner, a psychologist, an endocrinologist and an orthodontist. "Aha," he responds, "an agent from the enemy camp."
No, I tell him, their views about managed care vary, from support to concern to hostility. The most critical is my brother, Gary, a psychiatrist, who once spent countless hours in the emergency room gaining the trust of a mute, petrified rape victim only to be told by her insurer that he could not admit her to the hospital because that insurer's psychiatric care contract was with another hospital, two hours away.
Gary agrees that there's a need for efficiency but argues that there has to be room for relationships: "They made this girl into a commodity." When I told him I was going to Jackson Hole to meet with Ellwood, Gary had one question: "Ask him if he's ever been sick."
Ellwood has never fully understood the opposition from doctors. He believes he is on their side: "That's who I identify with. I don't identify with the policy wonks, or the insurance executives."
But even his attempts to show his empathy reveal his distance. "One of the favorite put-downs of me is that I never did private practice," he says. "No, I never operated a little-itty-bitty office. My patient is the United States of America."
He often wonders, he says, whether there is a gene for taking on the world's problems. His father did it. And though he took a road deliberately different from his father's, he did it, too. Now he is watching his three children repeat the pattern, which makes him both proud and protective. "Having a life's goal can be a burden," he says.
David Ellwood, 43, a dean at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, was the architect of Clinton's original welfare plan, until he left the Administration in frustration in July 1995. Cynthia Ellwood, 41, is an assistant superintendent of schools in Milwaukee and an editor of a national newspaper on education reform. And Deborah Ellwood, 35, works for the Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany. Even his former wife, Ann, is out to change one corner of society, establishing Minnesota Early Learning Design, a nationwide program to train parents.
"I don't know where it comes from," Ellwood says of his family's need to take on the impossible. "They were born that way. I was born that way."
 LIVING IN THE MIDDLE OF NOWHERE SEEMS TO HAVE GIVEN ELLWOOD a subtly different perspective on health care. About a year ago, he was riding one of his eight horses near his unfinished ranch when his mount threw him. He concluded that he had suffered a pneumothorax -- a collapsed lung -- and he managed to get back on the horse and ride to the home of a neighbor, who drove him the 35 miles to the nearest emergency room.
"They told me I needed surgery and they told me there were two doctors," says Ellwood, who is insured by Medicare. "I didn't have a clue whether either of them were any good."
He made his choice by asking their ages and choosing the younger of the two on the theory that younger surgeons have steadier hands and more recent training.
"Your brother wants to know if I've ever been sick," he says, sharply. "I have been sick. And sick people should be able to make their decisions on more than just a lucky guess. Do you realize how profound it would be if this all wasn't just a matter of faith or luck but a matter of one's ability to obtain information?"
A new project aims to allow exactly that. Facct is all about measuring quality, so that choices can be made on the basis of what is best rather than on what will cost the least.
Facct is not the first attempt to measure the quality of American health care. The system is awash in measurements, some carried out by the health plans themselves, rating patient satisfaction with the plan (and using those numbers in advertising). Outside organizations, like the National Committee for Quality Assurance, also evaluate and accredit plans. And groups of health care purchasers, like the Managed Health Care Association, which represents about 100 of the nation's largest employers, formed the Outcomes Management Sysrem Consortium to find out exactly what they were getting for their health care dollars.
Ellwood is not satisfied with the numbers that are already out there. He is most critical of the more longstanding types of measurement. Oxford Health Plan's claim that it is "No. 1 in customer satisfaction," as a recent advertisement boasts, does not tell him whether those happy customers actually got better. And when the National Committee on Quality Assurance notes that a given plan has a high mammography rate, it does not say whether those mammograms were read correctly and whether the patients with positive readings survived their diagnoses.
In other words, the system currently measures process, what providers do, rather than outcomes, whether what they do works. To Ellwood, that makes no sense.
"Wouldn't you rather have a system that measures what the health system is for rather than how it goes about doing it?" he asks. "When you buy a car, you don't care whether Ford has a total quality improvement program, but you care a lot about its crash worthiness."
The decision for the Jackson Hole Group to jump into the process-versus-outcomes debate had its start in February 1995, less than a week after Ellwood was thrown by his horse. At first, the idea did not go over well. The meeting was attended by a number of representatives of big health plans, who were resistant to the level of measurement and scrutiny involved.
So Ellwood held two subsequent meetings, and he did not invite the providers. As a result, Facct is backed primarily by consumer groups and large health care purchasers, among them American Express, General Motors, the Federal Health Care Financing Administration, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the American Association for Retired Persons and the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship.
The group is not based in Jackson Hole, but in Portland, Ore., home of its president, David Lansky. Last summer, Lansky, an expert in health policy research, released Facct's recommended criteria for evaluating care in the areas of breast cancer, diabetes and depression.
Diabetes care, for example, would be measured by using patient questionnaires, laboratory billing records and test results to determine whether a health plan or doctor does the three things thought most effective at controlling the effects of the disease (regular checks of a patient's feet to avoid loss of a foot to circulatory complications; regular checks of blood sugar levels, and annual eye exams to detect problems that can lead to blindness).
Using those same records, Facct would next look at patients' satisfaction with their access to specialists and support services. Finally, Facct would look at the results: Are patients able to cope with diabetes and its treatment? How many keep their blood sugar at desired levels? How many can avoid being hospitalized?
Eventually, Lansky and Ellwood say, Facct hopes to develop similar scorecards for most conditions. Its hope is that they become a standard in medicine, used by individual consumers and large purchasers to compare the quality of health plans.
"Success will be when we begin seeing the Government and the various corporations writing into their contracts, 'We expect this health plan to live up to Facct standards,' " Ellwood says.
That may take a while. There are many obstacles between here and there, and the largest -- making sure that the data are statistically significant -- is the reason other groups have rejected an emphasis on outcomes measures. The National Committee for Quality Assurance's revised criteria give more weight to how plans treat people who are sick, a change from the former emphasis on how plans keep people healthy. But nearly all the measurements are ones of process rather than outcomes.
"I would love to have outcomes measurements that allow you to make meaningful comparisons," O'Kane says. "But I don't think we can do that yet. Many plans are so small. Many diseases are so rare. You can measure, but you won't know what your measurements mean."
A second problem is cost. "At what point is the cost of developing this and of carrying it out going to exceed the benefits?" asks Joseph T. Lynaugh, president of NYLCare, the health care subsidiary for New York Life, which offers both H.M.O. and indemnity plans. Just the salaries of the professionals needed to analyze the data would add $800,000 a year to the cost of a plan with 100,000 members, he says.
Everyone agrees that Continued on page 106
health plans are reluctant to submit to Ellwood's vision, but there is little agreement on why. It is not only because they might look bad. Some are reluctant because they might look too good.
"Can you imagine in practice what would happen if The New York Times printed on its front page that Plan X was the best at treating depression?" says Helen Darling, who is manager of health care strategy and programs for Xerox. "Every depressed individual in New York would flock to that plan. And would anyone who was not depressed want to remain enrolled?
"I have been sworn to secrecy by one plan that has the best AIDS program in the world. They don't want people knowing about it. They couldn't handle the results. Ideally, if we lived in a wonderful world, we would want a plan to win prizes for their wonderful care. But in reality that would kill them."
The final obstacle comes not from the providers but from the purchasers. Those who buy health insurance have to insist on outcomes measurement, just as they insisted on managed care. They have to be willing to look at quality in addition to price.
There is some evidence that some already are. G.T.E. set a basic quality threshold, ranked plans according to perceived quality and offered financial incentives to employees who chose the highest-quality plans.
"It makes economic sense," says Dr. Mary Jane England, a psychiatrist and president of the Washington Business Group on Health. "If the employees aren't happy with the plan, they are going to be coming to complain. And if the care isn't keeping them healthy, you'll see absenteeism, decreased productivity."
But in an era when businesses are looking to cut employee benefits, it is unclear whether most employers will see it that way, particularly when quality measurement is still so elusive. A survey last year for the Washington Business Group on Health found that looking at the price tag rather than the product might be a difficult habit to break. Ninety-one percent of the businesses surveyed considered cost when choosing health plans, while 84 percent considered service to employees and only 37 percent considered quality benchmarks.
It could be that Paul Ellwood is searching for that perfect something that does not quite exist.
"Crusades always run into the problem of reality," Lynaugh says. "For Paul Ellwood, it seems it's almost a quest for the Holy Grail. There is no perfect system. By definition, the Holy Grail is beyond reach."
But those who judge Ellwood's dreams by whether they can be realized are missing the point. The power of Ellwood's journeys lies less in their completion than in the landscape they change along the way.
"Simply by talking about quality, he has brought the focus on quality," says Bruce Merlin Fried, director of the office of managed care at the Health Care Financing Administration, which administers Medicare and Medicaid. "Simply by telling the health care system in general that purchasers are going to be holding you accountable for quality, he has done the most important part and changed the nature of the debate."
 ELLWOOD IS AT THE WHEEL OF HIS suburban again, driving back from the ranch toward Jackson Hole. The late afternoon sun is in his eyes and he squints with each westward bend of the road. It has been a long day, and when he talks the certainty is gone. There are doubts that were not there hours earlier. It is a mood that sneaks up more often since the demise of the Clinton plan. "The whole Clinton thing was a big concentrated sort of high," he says. "It has led to a kind of concentrated low."
As he drives, Ellwood talks about his doubts about the future of the Jackson Hole Group, which must decide whether to disband in July. "I don't know that people will be willing to continue to take me seriously," he says, "when my address is Bondurant, Wyo."
And he doesn't seem sure that he wants them to. "Living in Bondurant, I'm more and more reticent about going out and giving a speech to somebody and acting like, you know, a big authority," he says. "I read somewhere that people lose confidence when they try to work at home. I don't know that I'd have taken on the whole health system if I'd started out working out of my back room."
Next come the doubts about Facct, which, under the most optimistic of timetables, will take years to implement. "The trust in managed care is really deteriorating rapidly," he says. "We need some way of assuring the public that plans can be trusted, and we need it quickly, or everything we've done can go down the tubes."
In the next weeks, he would come up with yet another plan to perfect the system. He believes the National Committee for Quality Assurance should be made into an agency with teeth, like the Food and Drug Administration, and should develop a minimum set of requirements that all plans must immediately meet in order to be licensed. Facct would become the Consumer Reports of health plans, providing data that consumers could use to make quality comparisons.
Ellwood has been talking for a long time, and we are nearing Jackson when he finally turns to his most fundamental doubts -- doubts about the whole of managed care.
He needed a minor operation some time ago, he explains, and was surprised to learn that it would be an outpatient procedure. "They told me to bring someone to drive me home," he says. "I thought it was because I would be in too much pain to drive, but then I realized it was because, when they sent me home, I was still coming out from the anesthesia."
In his friend's car, he says, he experienced common postoperative complications: nausea, dizziness and vomiting. "I had to decide whether to go back to the hospital to die or to go on home to die," he jokes, "so I decided to come on home to die."
He obviously survived, and at his next checkup he described the event to his surgeon. "The guy got this little smile on his face," he says. "Then he leaned in real close and looked me right in the eye."
He imitates what the surgeon said next, pausing for emphasis between every word. "Ellwood . . . it's . . . your . . . own . . . damn . . . fault."

GRAPHIC: Photos: For sale: The doctor, having sold the idea of managed health care, is now looking for takers of quality managed health care. And if you're looking for a house. ... (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBBIE MCCLARAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 68); Paul Jr. and Paul Sr. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF PAUL ELLWOOD) (pg. 70); Ellwood, second from right, and other members of the Jackson Hole posse. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF PAUL ELLWOOD) (pg. 71)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: JACKSON HOLE GROUP FAR EAST MOTORS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JACKSON HOLE GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WYOMING, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HEALTH CARE (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (88%); RELIGION (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); 

PERSON: ELLWOOD, PAUL J JR (DR); ELLWOOD, DAVID T; BELKIN, LISA BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



150 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Thailand Restoring Pattaya Beach Resort

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: PATTAYA, Thailand

 BODY:
IN a vestige of the Vietnam War, nearly two-thirds of the people who visit Thailand today are men, many of them coming for the kind of red-light district R-and-R that attracted soldiers on leave from the battlefields.
Thailand is working hard to change that image, and its efforts are most visible here 80 miles southeast of Bangkok at the beach resort of Pattaya, which was first popularized by American G.I.'s in the early 1960's. 
 "Historically, Pattaya has had a little bit of a difficult reputation," said David Holden, director of sales for the 988-room Royal Cliff Beach Resort that overlooks the city from a high bluff. "We have always had the sort of night life that you would expect troops coming from a war would be looking for."
The red-light district, with its nightclubs, discos and female boxing shows, is still Pattaya's defining landmark. It is as if the AIDS epidemic were not sweeping through Thailand, as it is elsewhere in Asia. "But inexorably," Mr. Holden said, "we are developing Pattaya as a family resort city, as a resort fit for all."
Along its beachfront, Pattaya now offers scuba diving, para-sailing and jet skis. There are bowling alleys, tennis courts and eight nearby golf courses. The city is crowded with fine restaurants, fast-food outlets, duty-free stores, cinemas, shopping malls, a Ripley's Believe It or Not museum and a new disco that can hold 6,000 people.
"We want Pattaya and the eastern seaboard to become a major center of the Thai economy, both as a center of tourism and business," said Seree Wangpaichitr, who heads the Tourism Authority of Thailand.
In its brochures, the resort now promotes itself as a destination for families and business conferences, hardly mentioning its famous night life.
But the development has brought other problems, including air and water pollution. In response, the Government has begun a $145 million program of new roads and transportation, land reclamation, beautification and water and sewage treatment.
"Obviously, it is hard to sell a beach destination where it is unwise to swim in the sea," Mr. Holden said. Most swimming here is done in hotel pools.
The development of Pattaya is part of a sophisticated repackaging of Thailand as an all-purpose tourist destination. Package tours are proliferating, offering trips to beaches, hill tribes and historical sites.
As one indication of success, Mr. Seree said that in recent years the percentage of visitors to Thailand who are women has risen from 28 percent to 38 percent. Bangkok's own red-light district, Patpong Road, has recently added a night market, where families can be seen shopping for souvenirs in front of the flashing neon signs of go-go bars.
But most tourists quickly pass through Bangkok, where the historic canals have mostly been paved over and traffic gridlock has set in, making travel there -- for business or pleasure -- a chore.
Mr. Seree said that while the average stay in Thailand is about seven days, the average stay in Bangkok is just a day or two.
Meanwhile, he said, visits to Pattaya are increasing at a rate of more than 4 percent a year, with the average stay for foreign tourists rising to more than four days. Tourism revenue in Pattaya last year totaled nearly $1 billion, with most of that coming from European and other foreign visitors he said.
All of this means that a traveler looking for sand, surf and palm trees must now look elsewhere. Pattaya, which once was filled with clamor and energy at night, is now filled with clamor all day long. It is no longer a quiet beach town, but a city bustling with the business of tourism.
Development has brought traffic jams to Pattaya, too, making it one of the few beach resorts in the world where traffic police officers wear masks to avoid breathing polluted air.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A street in Pattaya. (Seth Mydans)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (94%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL CLIFF BEACH HOTEL CO LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: THAILAND; PATTAYA (THAILAND); THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES BEACHES (90%); RESORTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); FAMILY TRAVEL (89%); FAMILY (88%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); LAND RECLAMATION (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); WATER SPORTS (70%); TOURISM (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); HOTEL AMENITIES (65%); FAST FOOD (64%); TOUR PACKAGES (63%); WATER POLLUTION (61%); AIDS & HIV (54%); EPIDEMICS (52%); SCUBA DIVING (51%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



151 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2646 words

HEADLINE: Las Vegas In Spades

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SIANO; JOSEPH SIANO is an editor in the Travel section.

 BODY:
IF any trip to Las Vegas ever looked like a break-even proposition before it started, our visit in September did: My wife, Marsha, and I left on Friday the 13th, on America West flight 711. It was a theme that would repeat itself throughout our four-day stay at the new Monte Carlo resort and casino.
The Monte Carlo, a 3,002-room Old World concoction that opened in June, is part of a wave of hotel construction and expansion that will increase Las Vegas's room count by more than 33 percent -- from 90,046 at the end of 1995 to 120,700 by the end of 1998. It won't be long before the Monte Carlo gives up headliner status to the New York, New York hotel next door. But for now, it's the newest act on the Strip. 
 The Monte Carlo's style is as close to understated as you can expect in a city where the older hotels are bathed in neon, and the newer ones seem to be spitting fire at you from volcanoes (or dragons or galleons) as you walk by. The building has the grandeur essential to any self-respecting gambling palace without looking garish. Although its casino will never pass for the original in Monaco (despite the hotel's suggestions otherwise), it is decorated richly enough to make the quarter-slots player feel like a high roller. And the level of comfort is surprising, given its moderate price scale. I'm just not sure that Prince Rainier would tolerate the staff around his palace too long.
Shortly after we landed at McCarran International Airport, we came up winners. The Avis car-rental clerk chirpily told me that for $2 a day more, I could graduate from economy class to midsize. As she zipped off a stream of vehicle names, the word "convertible" flashed by; I didn't need an Elvis impersonator to tell me the right choice. Standing next to the gleaming white Chrysler Sebring JX convertible in the Avis parking lot, we could see the spotlighted towers of the Monte Carlo.
In 10 minutes, the Monte Carlo's triumphal arch, grand splashy fountain and cream-colored facade lay before us. Marsha and I cruised up in front of our mini-principality with the top down; nowhere among our legion of loyal subjects, however, were there any bellhops.
By now it was past 3 A.M. our time, so we would have welcomed a place to sit down. But there were no seats anywhere in the vast, marble-paved lobby. The desk clerk and his computer, stationed behind a mahogany counter as long as a basketball court, told us that our non-smoking room with a king-sized bed hadn't been cleaned yet -- at about 12:20 A.M. Las Vegas time. He called housekeeping, but got no answer. While we waited (and stood, and glowered), he checked in five other guests.
Twenty minutes later, he said the room finally was clean, and presented us with two key cards and two room-charge passes. Even though he saw my wife beside me, he issued both passes in my name, which didn't seem like much of a lapse at the time. We headed up, pretending to be each other's bellhop -- and we didn't need one to find Room 7128. I knew it had to be the room far down the hall, where the housekeeper's cart was parked.
At this point, I was almost ready to call our first night's stay a washout and use the free buffet breakfast passes that the desk clerk had given us for our inconvenience.
As the housekeeper fluffed the last pillow, I scouted our room. The bathroom was done in beige marble, including the walls around the porcelain tub, and the sink had generous black-granite counter space. There was a hair dryer, a furry bath mat and ample-sized white towels.
The room itself was spacious, with the marble flooring of the foyer extending to just beyond the doorless closet nook. The cherry furnishings included an armoire concealing the television, a writing desk and chair and an armchair. Heavy gold drapes kept out the exterior spotlights at night. Carpeting was green with a floral border, and the colors all seemed to play off each other in harmony.
Heating and air-conditioning could be controlled in the room, and lighting was bright. The telephone had a data port, but its convenience was diminished by being on the bedside table, not on the desk across the room (although it almost made the short flight over there after the phone rang in the wee hours two nights in a row -- much dismay, no explanation from the front desk).
Over all, for the $69 weeknight rate, the room was well appointed; at $129 on weekends, it was a closer call.
EARLY the next morning, in keeping with the theme of our hotel, I took the convertible for a ride to the local version of the Grand Prix of Monaco, the new Las Vegas Motor Speedway on the northern edge of town. The Monte Carlo is well situated for fast getaways: Three quick right turns lead to I-15, the main access to downtown and such outlying sights as Valley of Fire State Park and Hoover Dam. Marsha, meanwhile, slept in and sampled some of the palace amenities.
Although I warned her not to tamper with perfection, she insisted on getting a facial at the hotel's salon. The service here was a pleasant contrast to what had preceded it; in the adjoining spa, attendants were ready to explain how to use the computerized exercise equipment, and a shower area was well stocked with grooming supplies. There was a marked improvement in Marsha's expression, and not just because of the facial.
On our last trip to the city, we had stayed at the same intersection -- Las Vegas and Tropicana Boulevards -- in the Excalibur, the world's only 4,000-room medieval castle. In the two years since, the landscape has changed greatly. What had been an empty lot across Tropicana Boulevard (named after the Polynesian resort on one corner) now contains the New York, New York hotel-casino, scheduled to open Jan. 6, and, next to it, the Monte Carlo. Adjacent to the Excalibur, the Luxor was adding two glass-clad ziggurats to go with its existing pyramid.
The exterior of New York, New York is as hyper as life in the city it limns, with scaled-down landmarks cheek-by-jowl (the Whitney Museum, in Las Vegas anyway, has a tenement as a neighbor). Although construction work prevented us from looking inside, seeing it four months short of completion lent a goofy charm. The Statue of Liberty, complete up to its chest, appeared to have been decapitated by a low bridge on the ride over from France.
Now that Fremont Street, the downtown thoroughfare known as Glitter Gulch, has been spoiled by a new all-weather canopy, the southern end of the Strip has become the city's new visual epicenter. From King Tut to King Arthur, from Bali Hai to the Brooklyn Bridge, it looks like some encyclopedic Times Square of civilization.
By the time I returned to join Marsha for lunch at the Monte Carlo, she had experienced another adventure with the hotel staff. The cashier at the breakfast buffet refused to honor Marsha's hotel room-charge card because it had my name on it, not hers. Wits sharpened by hunger, my wife whipped out the marriage certificate that she had brought to get through airline security in New York. It also failed to bring home the bacon, as it were. This was the Monte Carlo, Marsha was brusquely told, not Kennedy Airport.
After a delay that sent several customers behind her off to find other food sources, she went to the manager, who quickly scrawled her signature on the card and told her that would do. But Marsha insisted on a card in her own name. That acquired, she finally got breakfast.
This strange tale was shared with me over lunch in apt surroundings: the Monte Carlo's Cafe, with a harlequin theme featuring Dali-esque murals and fancifully painted musical instruments. My Reuben sandwich was adequate, though not overstuffed, and the service finally showed some signs of friendliness and competence.
Restaurants, in fact, were one of the Monte Carlo's stronger points. On the second night of our stay, dinner at the Market City Caffe -- enhanced by the look and aromas of a trattoria -- proved enjoyable. Napolitana pizza, decorated with chunks of sausage, was not overly oily, and a calamari salad was generous. And an order of iced tea brought a pitcher of it.
What the Monte Carlo's restaurants never try to do is innovate; the hotel management baldly states that it wants the middle-market gambler, and the menus reflect it.
So does the casino itself, a 90,000-square-foot gambling pit brightly lighted by chandeliers. The magicians' posters, ornate ceilings and lack of honky-tonk help distinguish it from its Las Vegas brethren. And I'd bet that the one along the Riviera doesn't have its own 24-hour convenience store.
On Monday, our third day there, we put the convertible to good use, driving about an hour northeast to Valley of Fire State Park. As we slowly cruised through the 36,000-acre park, the state's oldest, the eroded red-sandstone formations that give it its name rose up like a 360-degree rocky dome. This spectacle -- combined with sunny, 80-degree weather -- made us wonder how we ever could have driven thousands of miles around America with a steel roof over our heads.
From the park, we made the 70-mile drive south along Lake Mead to Hoover Dam, stopping on the way for short hikes up rocky hillsides, reveling in the silence. A roadside thermal pool tempted us to take an impromptu dip, until we saw a sign warning about a bacterium that could cause a slow, gruesome death if ingested.
We decided not to take the guided tour of the Hoover Dam, once we saw the line. The grainy black-and-white 1930's newsreel in the visitor center theater and the view from the observation deck to the Colorado River, over 700 feet below, brought home the dangers and heroism involved in building the dam. One small detail lent a heart to this giant wall of concrete: we passed a plaque on the rock walls where the dam builders had interred their canine mascot.
A few miles south, Boulder City proved a worthy and relatively undiscovered adjunct to a Hoover Dam visit. This town was created for 5,000 dam workers and their families, who flocked here -- despite the risks -- for the work provided by the Depression-era project. The town square seemed eerily quiet; only later did I realize why: no slot machines. It's the one town in Nevada that outlaws gambling, a legacy of the Government's efforts to keep the workers from squandering their wages.
Many of the original small stucco and brick cottages still stand. The original Boulder Dam hotel, now under restoration, at one time was the only major hotel in southern Nevada.
Back in Las Vegas that night, we had dinner at Blackstone's, the Monte Carlo steakhouse named after the magician Harry Blackstone. The dark paneling and big leather banquettes send a clear message: this is a place for power meals. As we sat at our table, we speculated on which of our fellow patrons were free-spending gamblers dining on the house.
If anyone guessed us, they were wrong, but the attentive service and the food were worth the $86 tab (with tax, tip and drinks). My Cajun shrimp were nicely grilled in a peppery but not incendiary maple sauce, although the black bean soup was too thin, with not enough flavor, and my steak, done as ordered, could have been more tender; the bearnaise accompanying it, like Marsha's grilled salmon, was satisfactory. A Grand Marnier souffle, ordered in advance, arrived on time and was sweet and moist.
Our red-eye return flight gave us lots of time to enjoy our fourth and final day, but not without paying an extra $44 for a 4 P.M. checkout.
We made sure to dip a toe in the Monte Carlo's pools. Bring your best beach coverups -- you'll be showing them off in the mandatory walk through the lobby and casino to reach the pool. And get there early, too. Most of the day, about a third of the pool area is in the shade, so tanning spots are at a premium. Start with a soak cycle in the eight-person hot tub, let the wave pool do the agitation, and then spin with the nonstop tide in the loop-shaped current pool.
AFTER drying out, we checked out, drawing the same clerk we had at our ill-fated check-in. Thus was our stay fittingly bookended -- especially after he made a $60 error in the hotel's favor.
We paid a last visit to the Monte Carlo's casino (accent on the "paid"). Houdini's Lounge, decorated with illusionist memorabilia, was aptly named: it lets you sit and sip while watching lots of people make $100 bills vanish.
The Monte Carlo's headline act is -- surprise -- a magician. Lance Burton, a former world champion prestidigitator, opened his 90-minute show in a pretty turn-of-the-century style theater with some world-class sleight of hand. But once Burton moved on to bigger illusions -- making his lovely assistants, an audience member, ducks and a Corvette disappear -- his act, for all its polish, became too dependent on trap doors and mirrors. And it was a sad reminder that for our next trick, we would go back to the airport, stop at the rental-car lot and make a convertible disappear.
 
Wheeling and dealing
 
The Resort
Rooms at the Monte Carlo Resort and Casino, 3770 Las Vegas Boulevard South, 89109, (702) 730-7777 or (800) 311-8999, fax (702) 730-7200, start at $60 weekdays and $100 weekends, but often are higher depending on which week you go. Although the hotel has a wading pool and a video arcade, it does not go out of its way to entertain families, as do the nearby MGM-Grand and Excalibur.
Besides a food court with a McDonald's, Sbarro's, Nathans, Haagen-Dasz and a bagel outlet, the hotel has six restaurants. The one dedicated exclusively to buffet service has breakfast for $5.49, lunch for $6.49 and dinner for $8.49. The breakfast buffet on a weekday was much more generous than on Sunday. At the Market City Caffe, the hotel's Italian restaurant, a sausage pizza for one was $9.95 and a calamari salad was $7.75. A Chinese restaurant, a deli, a steakhouse and a brew pub with live entertainment complete the dining picture.
Among the retail shops is a 24-hour convenience store, Hyper Mart, with orderly, well-stocked shelves and reasonable prices (soda at 75 cents a can, domestic beer 99 cents, 1.5 liters of water $2.50), truly a convenience for a guest who doesn't wish to splurge on room service but does not want to leave the hotel, either.
The 2,000-square-foot health spa provides exercise clothes and robes for $10 a day. Services include a half-hour facial ($45); shower areas were stocked with a variety of free grooming products. The adjoining Euphoria Salon offers aromatherapy manicures ($28) and pedicures ($55).
The 90,000-square-foot casino, all on one level, has 2,200 slot machines, the usual array of table games, poker and bingo rooms, keno, sports betting and a separate room for high-limit players.
Poolside drink service is available, and the pool area has a snack bar for light meals. Guests get free use of two large, thick beach towels; inner tubes rent for $7 a day. Tennis is also available on three outdoor courts for $10 an hour. The hotel's multilevel self-parking garage is free.
Tickets for Lance Burton's magic show, at 7:30 and 10:30 P.M. Tuesday through Saturday, are $34.95 a person.
 
Sightseeing
To reach Boulder City and the Hoover Dam, take Highway 93-95 south from Las Vegas about 25 miles.. The 35-minute tours of Hoover Dam leave every few minutes from the dam's new visitor center. Tours, offered daily from 8:45 A.M. to 5:30 P.M., cost $5, $2.50 for ages 62 and older and 10 to 16; after Jan. 1, it's $6, $5 for seniors and ages 6 to 16. Call (702) 293-8367. For Boulder City information, call (702) 293-2034.
Valley of Fire State Park, 55 miles northeast of Las Vegas, is reachable via I-15 north to Highway 169. Admission, on the honor system, is $4 a car. Best times to visit are dawn and dusk, when the sunlight intensifies the red of the sandstone. Call (702) 397-2088. J. S.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Monte Carlo Resort and Casino, with Old World-style fountain.; Playing roulette and blackjack. (Ron Mesaros for The New York Times) (pg. 14); The New York, New York complex is under construction. (Ron Mesaros for The New York Times) (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: CAR (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER, AND RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL AND LEASING (81%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (81%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (81%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MONACO (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MONTE CARLO RESORT AND CASINO (LAS VEGAS) OLD WORLD BAKERY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONTE CARLO RESORT AND CASINO (LAS VEGAS)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS (NEV); UNITED STATES (95%); MONACO (79%); NEVADA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; GAMBLING; CASINOS HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); GAMING (90%); HOTEL STAFF (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); AIRPORTS (72%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (71%); BASKETBALL (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (63%); 

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



152 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 34; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: POP VIEW;
Can Country Embrace This Rebel?

BYLINE: By Ben Ratliff 

 BODY:
IS THERE A COUNTRY SINGER SO underappreciated as Johnny Paycheck? His biggest hit, "Take This Job and Shove It" from 1977, remains the sound bite that most remember him by. Yet he has made 30 years' worth of wrenchingly expressive recordings, including songs from a brightly burning early period that should place him among the finest singers in American music. Now, "The Real Mr. Heartache," a well-annotated reissue (on the Country Music Foundation label) of Mr. Paycheck's mid-60's work, appears at a moment when part of Nashville may be circling back to his old sound.
When Mr. Paycheck, now 58, started his career in the late 1950's, the new country didn't sound like Hank Williams anymore. The music was reinventing itself, having taken a severe economic and esthetic hit from rock-and-roll. But what many older Nashville musicians remember as a bad time for the music sounds today like a golden period of restless creativity. Into the mid-60's, Mr. Paycheck worked as a bass player, steel-guitar player and backup singer in the bands of Ray Price, Faron Young and George Jones. That education primed him in the style of honky-tonk music's second wave -- hard country, as it was known. 
 Taking a cue from the dynamics of Elvis Presley and Gene Vincent, country producers boosted the sounds of steel guitars and drums; the subject matter darkened. And in the hands of the producer Aubrey Mayhew, who recorded Mr. Paycheck in the mid-60's on his own independent label, Little Darlin', the music literally became louder. "The Little Darlin' sound," as Mr. Mayhew publicized it, was an aggressive blare. He encouraged spontaneity in a studio process that had become cut and dried, and he insisted on mastering the records "hot," pushing the levels into the red; he wanted to create songs that would announce themselves on AM radio. "The records always sounded like they had this tension, as if they might self-destruct," says Lloyd Green, who was the musical director and steel guitarist on the Paycheck sessions.
Mr. Paycheck, too, had a perfect independent-label sensibility: mulish, experimental, extreme. He wrote some of his own best material, but he also became known as the singer who could carry the grimmest themes other songwriters could come up with. The normal country conceit -- the condition of being lonesome and blue -- is intensified in these songs with undemure vocabulary: words like "torture," "shame," "unbearable" and "insane."
"A-11," his first hit, in 1965, made an imaginary jukebox selection the symbol of a man's ruin. A year later, "(Pardon Me) I've Got Someone to Kill" presented a terrifying revenge and self-destruction fantasy. But 1967's "You'll Recover in Time," with lyrics by Mr. Paycheck and Mr. Mayhew, is the pinnacle of hard-country abjectness. It's a song of tender encouragement sung by a man to his ex-wife. But the man, as it turns out, is straitjacketed in a mental institution, having committed himself after she left him; she, after her own subsequent failed romance, has been assigned to a space near him, also straitjacketed.
If Mr. Jones, Merle Haggard and Willie Nelson are the great living country singers, then this reissue proves that Mr. Paycheck should be considered in their company. These old records, still cult items in Nashville's used-record stores, are full of vocal gymnastics: soaring, bizarrely pronounced vowels ("time" as "toime"), sung in a jolting, elastic tenor. The performer is to country music what the eccentric vocalist Jimmy Scott is to jazz.
Mr. Paycheck -- born Donald Lytle, his name swiped from a heavyweight boxer knocked out by Joe Louis -- has been complicit in his own present obscurity. During country music's highly commercialized "outlaw" phase in the 1970's, he took the image seriously. Bad management and bad habits with drugs led to a marginal place for him in country-music history. Despite the great early singles and his 33 top-20 hits during the 70's, he rates only parenthetical references in Bill Malone's reliable history "Country Music U.S.A."
Mr. Paycheck's career has been one of extremes: in 1970, he was a wayward soul, sleeping in the booths of Los Angeles bars; less than a year later, after signing with CBS to start the second phase of his career, he was nominated for a Grammy. In 1985, five years after the end of his run with CBS and in another slump, he was close to a new record deal with a major label when he shot and wounded a man in a bar near his hometown, Greenfield, Ohio, and went to jail.
The rest of the industry hasn't often been on his wavelength. His last good single, 1987's "Old Violin," demonstrated the problem: within the constraints of a typically perfumed Nashville production, Mr. Paycheck seemed a yard dog surrounded by chintz and ottomans. But perhaps the tides are turning. The new talk of Nashville is BR5-49, a young country band that is creating excitement because of its dedication to old-school hard country. "That was the end of the true honky-tonk music, I think," says Gary Bennett, BR5-49's 32-year old singer, speaking of the Little Darlin' tracks. "The Nashville Sound ended up to be just a lot of studio musicians; all the originality has seeped out of it over the years. It reminds me of this thing that George Bernard Shaw said -- that a reasonable man adapts to the circumstances around him, and an unreasonable man expects the circumstances to adapt to him -- therefore, all change is made by unreasonable men. Paycheck was an innovator."
Johnny Cash's career has been revived by the producer Rick Rubin's recasting of him as a dark and brooding loner, a granddad hipster hero; it remains to be seen whether there will be a place for Mr. Paycheck in the fold of the new "alternative country" -- whether it's tough enough to accommodate him.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Johnny Paycheck, best known for his 1977 hit "Take This Job and Shove It." (Midnight Special Productions)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COUNTRY MUSIC FOUNDATION (57%); COUNTRY MUSIC FOUNDATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNTRY MUSIC FOUNDATION (57%); COUNTRY MUSIC FOUNDATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) SINGERS & MUSICIANS (93%); COUNTRY MUSIC (91%); MUSIC (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); SONG WRITING (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: RATLIFF, BEN; PAYCHECK, JOHNNY

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



153 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 36; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION;
Cute Animals With a Cutting Edge

BYLINE: By DAVID EVERITT; David Everitt writes about film and video for Entertainment Weekly.

 BODY:
A LITTLE OVER A WEEK AGO, A significant confirmation of pop-culture status hovered high above Central Park West and Broadway, televised for an entire nation to see: the Bullwinkle balloon, redesigned with Rocky affixed to the moose's back, returned to the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade after a 13-year absence.
Rocket J. Squirrel and Bullwinkle J. Moose's drily satirical cartoon show, popular among adults and children alike, began in 1959 and floated from network to network and time slot to time slot for 156 episodes, until 1964. The show then appeared regularly in reruns until 1973, and it has popped up in reruns off and on for the last 23 years. In 1991, with much fanfare, Disney released "The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle" on home video. So, like Lucille Ball, Jackie Gleason and Dick Van Dyke, the clever squirrel and his addled moose pal have maintained a place in America's comedic consciousness. But recently they seemed to have gained a new prominence. 
 In June, "The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show" had its debut on the Cartoon Network, and it has become a popular fixture on that cable channel at 11 on weeknights and at 11 A.M. and 9 P.M. on Sundays, once again reaching beyond the typical cartoon audience. "It turns out, oddly enough," said Linda Simensky, the network's director of programming, "that 'Rocky and Bullwinkle' is in our top five shows among teens, which is an elusive group. They don't seem to be watching a lot outside of MTV and a few other channels."
And this fall, Bantam published "The Rocky and Bullwinkle Book," a glossy collection of plot summaries and quirky facts. (What is Bullwinkle's hometown? Frostbite Falls, Minn., of course.)
"Rocky and His Friends," as the show was called when it had its premiere on ABC, was easily the quirkiest cartoon show of its era. There were cute animals and slapstick to entertain children, but there was something more for viewers of all ages: topical social humor and sophisticated whimsy.
The serialized Rocky and Bullwinkle adventures were usually farcical sendups of the cold war, pitting decent American animals against Boris Badenov and Natasha Fatale, the most dastardly dirty-tricksters of Pottsylvania, a vaguely Eastern bloc repository of totalitarian evil. In one memorable story, Boris and Natasha sabotaged the United States economy by counterfeiting that most fundamental of American currencies, the premium cereal box top.
In other regular segments of the show, "Mr. Peabody's Improbable History" dismantled the most honored exploits of the past, as Mr. Peabody, a wealthy dog, traveled back through time with his adopted boy, Sherman; "The Adventures of Dudley Do-Right" skewered square-jawed heroism, and "Fractured Fairy Tales" and "Aesop and Son" turned age-old stories upside down. Through it all, the characters, who were drawn in a way that was at once crude and full of droll personality, offered their opinions on plot devices, the show's ratings and the network's censors.
After two years of appearing on weekday afternoons, "Rocky and His Friends" switched from ABC to NBC and became "The Bullwinkle Show." Broadcast by NBC on Sunday evenings at 7, it was one of the first cartoon shows to be broadcast in prime time, following "The Flintstones."
The program's appeal to both children and adults was a key factor in Bantam's decision to publish the new book. "The show has lived on in the minds of those three and a half decades of viewers," said Irwyn Applebaum, Bantam's president. "Everyone has a sense, I think, at any age, that it's a little smarter than it looks, initially, and it kind of sneaks up on you, that gentle attitude that still carries some bite."
While shows like "The Simpsons" have made irreverent animation commonplace, it was virtually unheard of in 1959, when Jay Ward created "Rocky and His Friends." Actually, Ward, a Harvard Business School graduate who in 1949 had been a creator of "Crusader Rabbit," the first cartoon made for television, did not produce "Rocky" alone; his partner was Bill Scott, a skillful writer and voice actor (the voice of Bullwinkle, no less). Nevertheless, Ward, who died in 1989, is singled out as the show's guiding force. Neither a writer nor an artist, he devised a creative setting that his staff found invaluable.
Physically, that setting was a modest Los Angeles building -- "a strange, little gingerbready house," recalled Allan Burns, a writer for Ward who later was one of the creators of "The Mary Tyler Moore Show." The building was incongruously situated across Sunset Boulevard from the swanky Chateau Marmont. Jay Ward Productions may have been short on capital, but Ward spared nothing when outfitting his offices.
"Ward created a playpen sort of atmosphere," said Louis Chunovic, author of "The Rocky and Bullwinkle Book," "complete with toys, candy, a popcorn machine and a calliope."
Ward was the ringmaster of this circuslike studio. "It was a wonderful place to work because of the freedom," Mr. Burns said. "Jay wouldn't come in and say, 'Do such-and-such.' He'd say, 'Figure out something you'd want to do.' That was Jay's style. 'Be thinking of new stuff.' "
Creative freedom without talent, of course, would not have produced memorable comedy, but Ward had a talent for spotting inventive young writers. He also set the adult tone of "Rocky." Tiffany Ward, Ward's daughter, who is the managing director of Jay Ward Productions, characterized her father's approach this way: "Some people might have said, 'O.K., I'm producing a cartoon; therefore it's for children.' Dad was saying that this is humor, not just children's humor, and he believed with every ounce of his soul that if there was more humor in the world, then the world would operate better."
Mr. Burns learned a practical lesson. "Jay's philosophy," he said, "was this: you're not that much smarter than everybody else, so if you do what you think is funny, chances are there's going to be a lot of people out there who are going to find it funny. And don't write down."
Years later, Mr. Burns put this philosophy to work as he and James L. Brooks created "The Mary Tyler Moore Show." "We were told by CBS that what we were doing was a little too smart for the room, that we should be doing more sitcomy sort of stuff," Mr. Burns said. "And we resisted that. I always knew there would be somebody out there who got it, and lo and behold, people did. I believe that it was a lesson that I learned from Jay 10 years before."
Mr. Chunovic says that the show is uncannily relevant today, despite humor linked closely to the events of its times. "There are jokes in 'Rocky and Bullwinkle' about welfare," he said. "There are jokes about cable television. There are tons of jokes about venal politicians. There are jokes about the military and the military mind-set. It sounds like it was torn from the headlines, only the headlines were in the early 60's."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Natasha Fatale, left, Boris Badenov, Rocky Squirrel and Bullwinkle Moose in the animated half-hour show that had its premiere in 1959 as "Rocky and His Friends." (Cartoon Network)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ROCKY AND BULLWINKLE SHOW, THE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CARTOON NETWORK

ORGANIZATION: CARTOON NETWORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); THANKSGIVING (72%); CURRENCIES (60%); COUNTERFEITING (50%); 

PERSON: EVERITT, DAVID LUCILLE DESIREE BALL (56%); HERBERT JOHN 'JACKIE' GLEASON (56%); DICK VAN DYKE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



154 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 12; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: New Partnership Draws Business to County

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

 BODY:
IN what can certainly be described as a good fit, the newly formed Westchester Partnership for Economic Development began its work by helping to bring a major shoe company to the county.
Early next year, when Nine West Group, the largest women's nonathletic shoe company, starts moving into its new headquarters in White Plains, it will bring 1,400 employees with it to the 336,000-square-foot building at 1111-1113 Westchester Avenue that was vacated by Nynex when that company moved to Manhattan. 
 "The positive economic impact Nine West will have on the county and Westchester taxpayers gets us off to a good start," said William M. Mooney, president of the new organization and president and chief executive officer of Hudson Valley Bank. "We believe this is the start of a new era of economic growth in the county."
In a move to eliminate fragmentation and duplication of services, the new Westchester Partnership for Economic Development has consolidated under one roof the activities previously performed by the Westchester County Association's Westchester Economic Development Organization, the Westchester Business Partnership and Westchester County's Office of Commerce and Economic Development.
"For companies thinking about relocation, we're providing one-stop shopping," Mr. Mooney said."Not only are we a clearinghouse for information but we have a 'deal team' that discusses everything from leases and incentive packages to quality-of-life issues with prospects."
For example, Mr. Mooney said, when Nine West first showed interest in the county by getting in touch with real estate brokers, officials from the state, the city of White Plains and the Westchester Partnership for Economic Development immediately went into action.
"We knew we were in competition with Stamford, where Nine West was based, so an attractive package of incentives was arranged for Nine West, and through our joint efforts the company is now coming back to New York, where it was started almost 20 years ago."
As for the primary focus of the new organization, Mr. Mooney said, it is to attract new business to Westchester and to retain existing business. "Seventy percent of our efforts are directed to bringing companies to Westchester," he said. "We're aggressive campaigners, initiating meetings with prospects. We literally embrace companies and extol Westchester. And these face-to-face meetings have already turned into deals that are in the final stage."
Describing the Partnership as a unique enterprise, Mr. Mooney said: "The reception has been very positive, up beat. What we've done is to pull the talents of business leaders, government officials and labor leaders into one cohesive group with a single goal: to stimulate the economy and bring companies into Westchester. We have the people and the organizational structure to make things happen."
Neil DeLuca, Deputy County Executive, said that the new Westchester Partnership had its beginnings in the county's old Office of Commerce and Economic Development.
"The decision to privatize the county's economic development office was a case of 'shoemaker, stick to your last,' " Mr. DeLuca said "It was made not only to save the county money but because of a belief that business in the county can best be promoted by business. With that in mind, we awarded a grant of $82,000 to the Westchester County Association, which then created the Westchester Economic Development Organization to take over the operation of the county's economic development office."
The roots of the Westchester Business Partnership can be traced back to 1990, when office vacancies, a result of the recession and downsizing, hit epidemic proportions. It was then that a group of four of the county's largest developers approached County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke with a plan to promote the county as a place to do business.
"We felt that the county government wasn't doing enough to attract and retain business," said Brad Berger, president of the Robert Martin Company of Elmsford and vice president of the Westchester Partnership for Economic Development. "Each of us made a $100,000 contribution to fund the original partnership and show the county that we meant business."
"The county responded by joining with the private sector in the partnership to market Westchester," Mr. DeLuca said. "Teams of business leaders went canvassing, initiating meetings with companies. The partnership also lobbied state lawmakers to make New York State more attractive to business by lowering business taxes and relaxing some of the more difficult business regulations. An advertising campaign, extolling the virtures of Westchester, was mounted." Eighteen months ago the two groups started merger talks.
"They had the same interests and felt they could operate more effectively as a single entity," Mr. DeLuca said. "But as is the case when two groups combine, there were turf issues. It wasn't easy. It took 20 people one year to hammer it all out and get approval."
Mr. Mooney agreed that establishing the new organization was not a simple job.
"Many hours of work on the part of a lot of people went into ironing out the details," he said. "But the net result is that we have one great organization, a single strong economic development entity. However, the old Westchester Partnership gets credit for laying the groundwork. They were the catalyst. Our new organization will continue and expand its efforts in promoting our county and its assets as a prime location for business. We have already taken an active role in discussions with several major companies in regard to business relocations. Our job is to do whatever we can to see that such moves, and others, go through. We have the people and the resources to make them happen."
Mr. DeLuca said that starting next year the Westchester County government is expected to give $332,000 a year to the new partnership. "The sum represents the combined amount we previously gave to the two separate organizations," he observed.
The number to call for information about or assistance from the Westchester Partnership for Economic Development is 948-7358.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William A. Mooney, president of the Westchester Partnership for Economic Development. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER PARTNERSHIP FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT NINE WEST GROUP INC (58%); HUDSON VALLEY BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER PARTNERSHIP FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FOOTWEAR (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; MOONEY, WILLAM A MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



155 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Business Improvement Districts;
Making a BID to Improve a Bronx Neighborhood

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
The Norwood section of the north Bronx has become a tough territory for sprayers of graffiti. No sooner have they left their signature messages on apartment walls and the metal roll-down gates that protect the glass display windows of retail stores than crews from Partners in Grime, a cleaning specialist, arrive with solvents and pressure washers to clean them off. The intention is to project the image of a community that is safe and economically viable and one that is managed more by productive citizens than idle youths with spray cans.
"In our view, nothing disturbs people as much as graffiti," said Dr. Spencer Foreman, the president of Montefiore Medical Center, the dominant economic institution in this northern section of the borough. "People see a neighborhood that is covered with graffiti as being out of control." 
 Prompt removal has another benefit, Dr. Foreman says. It saves money. "If you clean the graffiti off quickly, it discourages the youngsters who are doing it," he said. "They either stop or move on to another area, and the cost drops precipitously."
The graffiti-cleaning campaign in the area, which includes commercial strips on Jerome Avenue and Gun Hill Road, has evolved from a variety of mostly ad-hoc efforts to improve the neighborhood, including those of a group called Norwood Against Graffiti, into a full-blown business improvement district, the Jerome Mosholu-East Gun Hill BID.
The stores along both streets have an occupancy rate of over 90 percent, BID officials said, with local shops intermixed with nationally franchised chains such as McDonald's, Radio Shack and Kentucky Fried Chicken. Rental rates, which peaked at about $50 a square foot a year in the late 1980s, are in the $30 to $40 a foot range now, officials said. Like better known BID's in Manhattan, such as the Grand Central Partnership or the Times Square BID, the Bronx group, which was approved by the city administration on May 6, will provide security officers to supplement police and sanitation crews from city government and help clean sidewalks, as well as continue the graffiti-removal program.
The scale will be a lot smaller, of course. The bigger Manhattan districts have annual budgets running into the millions of dollars. The Jerome Mosholu BID is expected to raise and spend about $200,000 for 1997 -- and the figure includes putting up holiday decorations this year.
And unlike the Manhattan districts, which have substantial corporate sponsors with an intense interest in neighborhood property values, the Bronx district has as its principal sponsor Montefiore, a big (annual budget, approximately $1 billion) institution, but a nonprofit one. Of the 37 operating BID's in the city, the Bronx district is the only one principally sponsored by a nonprofit.
DR. FOREMAN said the sponsorship of the BID was part of the medical center's tradition of involvement with its local community and "enlightened self interest."
"There is an image of the Bronx as Fort Apache that has given the borough a reputation that is unjustified," he said. "The fact of the matter is that there are no drive-by shootings here. Our neighborhood is made up of solid middle-class families who live good lives."
He said that because many of the medical center's employees live nearby, the appearance and feel of the community affects their performance at work. "We get a wonderful result from our investment," he said. The medical center and its affiliates are the largest employer in the area, with approximately 8,000 workers.
Dr. Foreman also acknowledges, in a time of increasing competition between hospitals, that people are more likely to seek medical treatment in a neighborhood that seems clean and safe. The medical center's location, at the second-to-last stop of the No. 4 subway line, has always put it at the fringe of the city's medical establishment.
The district will benefit the landlords and merchants being assessed to pay for it, said Harold Citron, who operated Citron's Hardware on Jerome Avenue for 51 years before selling the store earlier this year. "It will be important to have security guards marching up and down Jerome Avenue," he said. "That way senior citizens will not be afraid to walk to the bank to deposit their Social Security checks." Both Citibank and Chase have branches along Jerome Avenue, and City and Suburban Federal Savings Bank has an office on Gun Hill Road. Mr. Citron said the street cleaning and graffiti removal were important was well, so the area can project a welcoming image. "If people walk into an area that is dirty and has graffiti all over the place, they assume it is a seedy area and they will not shop there," said Mr. Citron, who is an adviser to the district.
As with all BID's, not everyone is enthusiastic about the extra assessment, which some shopkeepers fear will be passed on to them in the form of higher rents by landlords. The annual assessment, on property owners, is $30 per foot of sidewalk space for commercial properties. Montefiore is expected to contribute about one-quarter of the budget. City regulations allowing BID's to impose fees on property owners solve the problem of having some businesses contribute to upgrade the community while others refuse but benefit as free riders, Mr. Citron said. "Sometimes, merchants can be their own worst enemies," he said.
Although the BID assessments represent additional taxation for services like cleaning and security that are supposed to be supplied by the city, they have an advantage over other levies: they are guaranteed to be spent locally, rather than commingled with citywide taxes.
Montefiore moved from Manhattan to the Bronx in 1912, when the area was mostly fields and dairy farms, and has gradually been transformed from a nursing home for people with incurable diseases to an acute care hospital affiliated with the Albert Einstein Medical School. It is named after Sir Moses Montefiore, a Jewish leader and philanthropist in 19th-century England.
The medical center became involved in the local real estate market in the early 1980's, when the nearby five- and six-story apartment buildings appeared likely to go through the same cycle of deterioration and abandonment as had many of their their counterparts in the southern part of the borough. The aging buildings required investment, but landlords feared that property values were so low the spending could not be justified.
The medical center established the Mosholu Preservation Corporation in 1981 to intervene in the market. "We were the buyers of last resort," said Dart Westphal, vice president of the corporation. Ultimately the corporation acquired five apartment buildings: one that had been abandoned, two in foreclosure and two donated by owners who were abandoning their properties and saw a way to get a tax benefit.
The action helped prevent any panic, repairs were made and property values increased. "What we did was put a floor on the market," Mr. Westphal said. "The owners knew they could always sell to the hospital."
HE said apartment units, which were valued at as little $2,000 apiece at the low point, are currently in the $15,000 to $20,000 range. The corporation continues to own and operate the buildings.
The corporation also has been publishing a local newspaper, The Norwood News, for the last eight years to promote a sense of community. Dr. Foreman said it is getting close to breaking even.
"We wanted to say that this is a regular place where regular people live," Mr. Westphal said. "It says this community is important enough to have its own newspaper."
Cleaning up the area will encourage more residents to shop locally and improve residents' self-image, said June M. Eisland, a Democrat-Liberal who represents Norwood and Bedford Park in the City Council.
"Cleaning the streets, getting rid of the graffiti and keeping up the little parks all enhance the quality of life," she said. "It makes the area appear more secure and conveys the sense that the hierarchy of the community cares about what is happening here." She said that because of the BID, holiday decorations started going up on Jerome Avenue before Thanksgiving, and "they will be up on Gun Hill Road for the first time in recent memory."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nicholas Lessa removing graffiti from wall as part of business improvement district's cleanup in Norwood section of the Bronx. (Photographs by John Sotomayor/The New York Times)
 
Map of the Bronx showing location of the Montefiore business improvement district.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (82%); RSH (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (82%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (82%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: JEROME MOSHOLU-EAST GUN HILL BID (ORGN); MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (NYC) MCDONALD'S CORP (82%); RADIOSHACK CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JEROME MOSHOLU-EAST GUN HILL BID (ORGN); MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NORWOOD (NYC); BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; GRAFFITI REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); VANDALISM (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (88%); BUDGETS (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); SPONSORSHIP (86%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); GRAFFITI (78%); RETAILERS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); FRANCHISING (72%); TRENDS (72%); APPROVALS (64%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FOREMAN, SPENCER (DR); HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



156 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2680 words

HEADLINE: A Safety Net Wears Thin

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE 

 BODY:
THEY woke about 10 A.M. and began to scrounge for change. Philip, Florence and Raymond, emerging from a cinderblock enclosure and slinking toward a Hoboken liquor store for the tall boy and a fifth of vodka. In an hour both bottles were empty but their bellies were warm, the day after Thanksgiving like the day before, this year like the last, their future seeming as bleak as their past.
Florence Golden, 50, swathed in rags, had just got out of a hospital. She had walking pneumonia, not the first time. Raymond Ulish, 40, was nursing his swollen and cut hands after drunkenly punching walls all night. Philip Bonfiglio, 49, was thinking about his dead wife. 
 "This is the worst year ever," Mr. Bonfiglio said. "People have just gotten colder, more heartless. When I got on the streets it was nice, people were generous. But now, it's once in a blue moon when people give you something."
Mr. Bonfiglio is right. Being homeless in New Jersey is more difficult than it used to be, whether you fit the visible stereotype of Mr. Bonfiglio and his companions as street-hugging panhandlers or are more suitably characterized by the term that for more than 15 years has defined a far larger segment of an out-of-luck, unhoused society: the homeless.
For all of them, life is getting tougher, advocates and local government officials say, adding that a growing frustration with the chronic nature of the problem has led an economically cautious state government to be much more selective about who it helps and how much it will spend.
This erosion continues on other fronts: affordable housing continues to be scarce in New Jersey. The waiting period for housing-assistance funds can drag on for months, and, in the case of low-income apartments, years. Requests for shelter also routinely outpace bed space, with thousands of the homeless being turned away from shelters every year.
Homelessness, which began as a trickle in the late 1970's, became a flood in the late 1980's, the numbers of homeless rapidly expanding not only in major cities like New York and Newark, but also in smaller urban and suburban areas in New Jersey. In part, the phenomenon was driven by the drug crisis and, particularly in New York, the wholesale release of mental patients who could not care for themselves. But the major cause was much more simple: the skyrocketing cost of housing, the issue still at the nub of the problem.
In Middlesex County, which once allowed its few homeless to sleep under bridges and in church pews, two temporary shelters were in use by the mid-1980's. By the early 90's, there were two permanent shelters and three others that either alternated between churches or operated in winter.
Statewide, the number of homeless shelters nearly tripled between 1987, when 66 were registered with the New Jersey Department of Community Affairs, and 1996, when 164 had opened.
But while advocates for the homeless say the number of those needing aid has remained constant over the last four years -- about 15,000 on a given day, more in winter -- the amount of Federal and state dollars being allocated for the homeless and those in dire need of housing has shrunk.
Emergency funds for families with dependent children and single people have gone from $125 million in the fiscal year 1993 to $68 million in fiscal 1997, according to the State Deparment of Human Services. State block grants meant to cover those not eligible for welfare went up slightly because of cost-of-living increases, rising from $7 million in 1993 to $7.7 million for 1997.
It's not news to the dispossessed that things are tougher.
 
THE PEOPLE
Coming Up Short
Glenn Statten, 63, lost his home in Perth Amboy a month ago after he was laid off from his job and his wife began using drugs. He had lived in a rent-subsidized house for 35 years, driving a truck for $10.20 an hour and toward the end helping to raise three children who are still in their teens. He had never imagined falling into this situation. Now he doesn't understand why it took so long.
"I never had a bank account, never had enough money for that, even $10 an hour ain't enough in this day and age," he said, shuffling cards for a game of solitaire at the Ozanam Family Shelter. a former barracks in Edison where he lives with Danielle, 12, Travis, 9, and Trever, 6.
"All it took was a couple of missing paychecks," he said. "I don't drink or do drugs, and I have always supported my kids," he added. "People may think we're bums, but I'm not so different from the rest of you. You could be here too."
Mr. Statten's fellow residents include a woman in her 60's who was evicted when the man with whom she lived died; a 50-year-old woman fighting to win a worker's compensation claim, and a family with five children, their only income a Burger King fry cook's salary. Others have lost jobs, had drug problems or escaped bad marriages.
Some were on the streets for months before finding shelter at Ozanam, which houses more than 90 people. Others spent only days. None are quite sure how to turn their lives around.
"I took care of my husband for 20 years, but when he died there was no will and his children took what money there was," said one elderly woman who refused to give her name because she was a lifelong resident of Edison.
"I finally ended up sleeping on the street with two suitcases -- I felt like dying," she said, adding that she came to Ozanam after one of her suitcases was stolen from her while she was resting at a McDonald's. "You have no idea what it's like out there."
A woman who gave her name as Nancy, 50 years old, wears a brace on her right leg. She injured it almost two years ago when she tripped over some debris in the trucking yard she managed. It was a sprain that grew worse, she said, and required two operations. Company doctors finally disagreed with private doctors, and worker's compensation was cut off last month.
Now she subsists on $200 a month in welfare and $100 in food stamps, has exhausted her savings and can neither get a job nor afford an apartment until her claim is settled. But even a settlement in her favor would give few options, since rental agents will not consider those without a steady income.
Caridad Centeno, 29, asked for a cigarette, her 10-month-old boy crying in a corner, her other four children playing games in a back room. She said she fled to the shelter with her boyfriend, Armando Rodriguez, 32, after being evicted from a drug-infested apartment in the Bronx when her welfare check was late.
She has applied for assistance in New Jersey, her boyfriend working for minimum wage at the local Burger King. This, she hopes, will open a new life for her and her family, minimum wage and a welfare check providing the key to a shaky success away from drugs and gangs.
 
THE NUMBERS
Chronic Problems
 Of the roughly 750,000 people homeless nationwide, 36.5 percent are families with children, while children themselves account for 25 percent of the homeless population, according to the National Alliance to End Homelessness, the National Coalition for the Homeless and the United States Conference of Mayors.
The contributing factors to their homelessness vary. While 69 percent of the homeless surveyed by the Conference of Mayors were substance abusers or mentally ill, 1 in 5 were the working poor. Roughly 50 percent of the women were fleeing domestic abuse. Most of those studied were homeless for six to eight months before pulling themselves off the street, though they often return.
New Jersey reflects these national trends, with children and the elderly accounting for an increasing number of the state's estimated 40,000 homeless.
The main problem is affordable housing. According to the National Low Income Housing Coalition, the fair market rent for a one-bedroom apartment in Trenton, in Mercer County, is about $610, while the same apartment in Middlesex County would reach $705. Both prices far outstrip the income of most seasonal and minimum-wage earners, even if both spouses work.
According to the Conference of Mayors, there is also a lack of state subsidies that might make such housing affordable, with people waiting up to five years for Federal subsidies for private housing, called Section 8 certificates, and others waiting three years for public housing. In the City of Trenton, officials are not even accepting any more applications for the state subsidy, the report said. (The state subsidy is based on an average rental price in each of various regions in the state.)
"People look at us and think we're all alcoholics and drug addicts, but it's not like that," said a 30-year-old warehouse worker in New Brunswick who recently lost his $6-an-hour job and is now homeless. "There are a lot of people out there being forced to decide whether to pay the rent or eat. When they lose their jobs, they end up like me. Without the shelters, they'd be lost in the world."
But while shelter needs remain as great as ever, the safety net meant to catch those battered by a lack of skills, money or family is fraying. In Middlesex County -- a mix of New Jersey's rural, suburban and urban landscape -- operators of emergency shelters reported a combined loss of more than $400,000 in operating income -- primarily government funds -- during the fiscal year that ended in September. The result has meant belt-tightening and layoffs.
The loss of revenue reflects a change in direction by state government, which is more narrowly defining which of the homeless qualify for temporary rental assistance and moving toward a program that puts more of those who do qualify into temporary apartments. (Recipients can receive the housing aid for up to a year, with the state covering all but 35 percent of their rent. But a shelter stay can cost $1,200 a month, far surpassing the $600 to $800 that can put many in an apartment.)
This has left shelters with a growing number of residents who can contribute nothing to their care. Although shelters also receive private donations, and block grants meant to pay for those who don't qualify for state assistance, these fall far short of the need, according to Marilyn Wightman, director of shelters and housing for Catholic Charities, Diocese of Metuchen.
Catholic Charities is the county's largest provider, offering beds and counseling for 1,382 residents in the last year. It had a deficit of $213,000 in the fiscal year ended June 30, mainly due to a cutback in temporary housing-assistance funds, and expects a loss in the next year of $150,170. Five counselors and staff assistants have already been laid off.
"Welfare continues to refer people to us for help but there is less willingness to help pay the cost," said Ms. Wightman, whose group runs a men's shelter in New Brunswick and the Ozanam shelter in Edison.
"The need has not gone down with the funding. There are waiting lists even to get into a shelter," she said. "But there is a hostility toward the poor and these people are being blamed for the positions they are in. Some may have made bad decisions, but the vast majority made the mistake only of being poor."
 
THE OUTLOOK
Leaner Times
New Jersey's county and city governments, which dole out state emergency-assistance funds to welfare recipients who find themselves homeless, say they are under increased pressure from the state to define more strictly which of the homeless are eligible for help.
Those perceived as contributing to their own homelessness are scrutinized more closely before any aid comes their way, local officials say. This includes people who quit their jobs, not complied with counseling requirements when they last applied, have been recently arrested or released from jail, or been forced out of their homes because their partners have accused them of domestic violence. But battered women who do not file charges against their abuser or bring hospital documentation of the abuse have also been refused, as have families evicted from illegal apartments by safety inspectors.
"The state is increasingly overturning cases that an administrative law judge has said meet the definition of needing assistance," said Angela B. Mackaronis, director of the Middlesex County Board of Social Services, which handles emergency assistance for families with children. "It worries us a lot because there are no absolutes in these situations. People need to be responsible for their own actions but we cannot have people left on the street either. A very delicate balance has to be maintained. But, so far, this seems more like fiscal than social policy."
State officials say that the guidelines for eligibility are unchanged, and that while less money may be allocated for homeless programs, they believe that cost-saving measures like placing the homeless in apartments instead of the more costly shelters will help just as many people.
No matter what action the state takes, the homeless will continue to seek shelter, but the shelters will simply not be reimbursed fully or at all for caring for them, advocates for the homeless say.
This could mean an end to many programs that help keep those wobbling on and off the streets from becoming chronically homeless. Many of those residing at Catholic Charities shelters in Middlesex County say they become self sufficient in a few months because of the heavy emphasis on drug, alcohol and mental counseling, and because staff members relentlessly coach residents on how to get a job, help them construct resumes and run through mock interviews.
Those who receive money at the shelter, either through welfare payments, emergency-housing assistance or part-time work must also put half their funds into a savings account, giving them a financial buffer if laid off and increasing their chances of staying off the street when they leave the shelter.
Many of them could have easily slipped into Mr. Bonfiglio's shoes, for he was not always so downtrodden. He once owned a delivery truck, was married and had a house. He was building a business and a life, saving money and controlling his drinking.
Then things began to unravel, a cycle set in stone after his wife died of cancer three years ago. Mr. Bonfiglio grabbed hold of a bottle, keeping a firm grip all the way through a bankruptcy, an eviction and several cold winters on the street. He is now seen as one of the chronic homeless, unwilling to get counseling even if it were offered.
At 32, a new resident at the Catholic Charities shelter in New Brunswick named Greg said he had already spent more than a decade sliding down Mr. Bonfiglio's path. It began at 16, he said. That was when we was kicked out of school for smoking pot and joined the Navy. He quit at 17 and returned home to Maryland. A fight with his father ended his stay there a few months later. He has quit numerous jobs and has a string of 20 arrests for public intoxication and disorderly conduct. He says he has slept in crack houses and on the street and watched fellow addicts go stone cold.
With only four days down at the shelter he still wrestles demons, but all around him, among the staff and in the eyes of his 40 fellow residents, he sees encouragement. Sitting across the table, is a West African named Leomine, also 32, who has conquered a crack addiction, found Jesus and started a job driving a forklift. He is saving for an apartment.
In the hallway, a former resident who is a part-time helper at the shelter, Michael Slana, 36, now works as a cook at Rutgers University.
"Sometimes when you're sitting in the shelter and looking back at your life, you just don't want to get out of bed," said Greg, cutting into Thanksgiving day leftovers.
"But when I look around here, I see there are lots of people like me, people who have just come across a burden in life, and don't have many skills," he said. "Maybe the system doesn't think we're worth the time, but there are lots of people here digging themselves out. I'm not like I was. I want a job and I want to work. I'm not going back on the street."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A homeless woman at the Ozanam Family Shelter in Edison, which houses more than 90 people. A shortage of affordable housing remains at the heart of the homeless problem, but government aid is also harder to come by. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Glenn Statten and his son, Trever, tidying up outside the Ozanam shelter. Families account for more than a third of the homeless. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); While living at a New Brunswick shelter run by Catholic Charities, a resident named Leomine, top, says he has conquered a drug problem and found a job. Philip Bonfiglio and Florence Golden, above, homeless and on the street, cross a Hoboken intersection. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; MIDDLESEX (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (87%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (86%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); HOSPITALS (70%); PANHANDLING (67%); SUBURBS (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); THANKSGIVING (57%); PNEUMONIA (55%); 

PERSON: ROANE, KIT R

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



157 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Women Who Lead the Way

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: PLEASANTVILLE

 BODY:
THIRTY years after the fact, Claudia L. Edwards executive director of the Reader's Digest Foundation and one of the more highly placed women in the county -- still winces at the memory of her 11th-grade economics instructor.
"I don't remember much else about Mr. Burg, but I'll never forget that he said I wouldn't amount to much," Ms. Edwards recalled recently at her office here. "He predicted that one of the boys in our class would become a lawyer, another would become a doctor and that in six months I would be pushing a baby carriage." 
 The high school teacher, however, was only articulating what has long been feared by women and confirmed recently in two studies: few women get to breathe the rarefied air above the proverbial glass ceiling, which three decades after Mr. Burg, still remains mostly the province of white men.
The bipartisan Glass Ceiling Commission, established in 1991 by Congress, first reported last year that there was indeed an invisible barrier inhibiting women and members of minorities from advancing. It also said that 95 percent of senior-management positions are held by Caucasian males, even though the work force is 57 percent female.
And this fall, a study by Catalyst, a nonprofit research and advocacy group in New York, showed in more detail that although some like Ms. Edwards have been successful, in general a woman's chances of amounting to much in America's corporate board rooms remain slim.
The Catalyst research found that among 12,997 corporate officers in the country's 500 largest companies, only 1,303 -- or 10 percent -- were women. It also showed that among the 2,500 people listed as the top five earners in those companies' proxy statements, only 50 -- or 2 percent -- were women.
Recent interviews with highly placed female executives in Westchester bore out what the Glass Ceiling Commission and the Catalyst studies showed: the way to the top for most female executives is a hard row to hoe.
Nationwide, among the 2,430 people holding the title of chairman, chief executive, vice chairman, president, chief operating officer or executive vice president of the Fortune 500 companies, only 57 -- or 2.4 percent -- were women, according to the Catalyst findings. And among the 978 female officers having the title of executive vice president, senior vice president or vice president, only 271 -- or 28 percent -- were responsible for sales and profit or loss, duties considered crucial for moving up the corporate ladder.
Westchester, which is home to many large corporations, reflects the trend, according to those executives interviewed. And it has only one company -- I.B.M., the Armonk-based computer giant -- listed among Working Mother magazine's most recent list of the 100 best companies for working mothers. I.B.M. was rated as "exceptionally progressive" by the magazine in terms of pay rates, advancement opportunities, access to child care and flexibility in work schedules.
In addition to Ms. Edwards, those executives selected for this article include the president of Pace University, a vice president and general manager at Nynex, a consultant who finally gave up on the corporate pursuit and set off in business for herself, the president of Maxwell House Coffee -- who oversees a $1.4 billion business -- and the chief operating officer of Pepsi-Cola North America.
Some had unusual stories to tell about the struggle to succeed and advice for those following behind. And although they agreed they had to be tough-minded to break into the old boys' club at the top, they each chose to be strong in different ways. Also, while some of them married and had children along the way, one said she waited until her 40's to choose the Mommy track. Another passed up family life altogether.
Patricia O'Donnell Ewers, the 61-year-old president of Pace University, described her high-profile journey to a senior post in the field of education as one of trailblazing.
"Whenever you're the first of your generation, people watch closely," she said. "And the higher up you go, the more that people make judgments. So don't go out of your way to be controversial, and do pick your battles carefully, knowing that the goal is to win the big ones."
Hard-driving though she is, Dr. Ewers recommended a noncombative style in the workplace, one of fitting in with the existing male leadership structure. "If the men in your company play golf, learn to play golf," she said. "If they like music, know more about music."
Her observations are supported by the Glass Ceiling Commission's report, which said that whether unconsciously or by design, men tend to choose co-workers who share their interests in golf, fishing and baseball. It also said men often steer most female and minority workers to the sidelines -- favoring only those who think the way they do.
"You will never get past the comfort barrier if you don't learn to speak the language men speak," Dr. Ewers observed. "Breaking through the glass ceiling is, among other things, about developing relationships and learning to communicate with men on their own terms."
Meredith L. Pera, the 46-year-old vice president and general manager of Nynex's mid-state region, had different advice for other women seeking to climb the corporate ladder.
"Don't ever stereotype yourself," she said. "And don't paint yourself into a corner. Be willing to move laterally and accept assignments that aren't your first choice."
As for pitfalls women should avoid in the workplace, Ms. Pera called crying "a no-no that makes people uncomfortable and doesn't put your point across." Anger is O.K., she said, so long as it is both well founded and not overly harsh.
Ms. Pera, who was divorced when she was 26 and did not remarry -- "I'm more of a solo decision maker," she said -- has an adopted 4-year-old son, Sam. She said she always wanted children but waited until the corporate environment was more accepting of working women with families. She shares a house with her sister, who is also single and has 2-year-old adopted twins.
A black female executive, Jennifer M. Rutledge, left corporate America in 1984 after being passed over for several promotions. She joined a partner in a strategic-planning venture and now serves as vice president of Delphi Consulting Group in White Plains. "I always assumed that the playing field would be level and equal," she said. "When it wasn't, I had to ask myself: 'Is this racism or sexism at work? What is the message?' The glass ceiling was being broken in places, but not fast enough for me."
Ms. Rutledge's decision to become self-employed is reflective of one of the fastest-growing segments of the economy: female entrepreneurs. Statistics show that women own 5.9 million small businesses in the country, which is up by 43 percent from 4.1 million in 1987. Meanwhile, the number of small businesses overall has grown only 26 percent, according to a Wall Street Journal report.
Ms. Rutledge has neither married nor had children. "I didn't plan it that way," she said. "That's just the way it worked."
By contrast, Ms. Edwards married early and had her first child -- as her economics teacher predicted -- shortly after leaving high school. "What upset me most about what Mr. Burg said was that most of it came true," she said.
"But I also remember sitting at my kitchen table and looking at my little boy and coming to the realization that no one could decide but me what I would become and where I would go in life."
By the time her second son was 3, she decided to defy the odds and enroll in college.
"And that's my advice to other women," she said, "that the first rule for getting ahead is believing in yourself."
Although some studies have suggested that taking the Mommy track often means a derailment of one's career goals, that is sometimes not true. Ann M. Fudge, the 45-year-old executive vice president of Maxwell House Coffee, a company within Philip Morris Companies' Kraft Foods division, married and had a child in college.
Ms. Fudge is now considered one of the top female executives in the country, along with another from Westchester, Brenda Barnes, the mother of three children and the chief operating officer of Pepsi-Cola North America, a $6 billion company.
Nevertheless, a study at Pace University of the career paths of M.B.A.'s suggest that most female executives who take time off and later go back to work permanently sacrifice career advancement and earning potential. The study was conducted by Frieda Reitman, professor emeritus at Pace's Lubin School of Business in Pleasantville, in conjunction with Joy A. Schneer, associate professor of management at Rider College in Trenton, N.J.
"Thirty years after Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, equality has not occurred," Dr. Reitman wrote recently. "How much longer will it take?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Claudia L. Edwards of Reader's Digest, top; Patricia O'Donnell Ewers of Pace. (pg. 1); Ann M. Fudge. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Jennifer M. Rutledge. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WOMEN; HIRING AND PROMOTION; DISCRIMINATION GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MEN (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); TRENDS (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); WORKING MOTHERS (66%); 

PERSON: EDWARDS, CLAUDIA L; EWERS, PATRICIA O'DONNELL; BRENNER, ELSA ANN LIVERMORE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



158 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Making the Case For State Schools

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN 

 BODY:
IN the fall of 1955, Richard L. Judd, whose father was a factory worker in Bridgeport and whose mother was an emigrant from Hungary, enrolled at Teachers College of Connecticut in New Britain for a very good reason: It was the only place he could afford.
When he talks today about the economics of his first year at New Britain it almost seems he is talking about another century. The entire tuition for his freshman year was $60. As for room and board, he lived three miles off campus in Army barracks from a World War II anti-aircraft site that had been converted to student housing. Cost: $180 for the school year. Food at the improvised dorms, under a plan using teams of students to prepare and serve food, was $7 a week, including lunch one took to the campus. 
 And even though he had to work three part-time jobs to get by, the important fact was that a public college was affordable, Mr. Judd says today, even if you were poor, a word used before euphemisms like "economically deprived" came into vogue. He was the first in his family to earn a college degree.
Over the decades, both the New Britain college and Mr. Judd have changed more than a little.
In 1955 the college -- founded in 1849 as the state's first public institution of higher learning -- was still relatively small, with 1,200 students. Today, it is Central Connecticut State University, with 12,000 students, about half full-time, half part-time.
And Mr. Judd is its new president.
He was inaugurated Oct. 24, in a ceremony attended by hundreds of people and which seemed more of a love-in than a formal affair, complete with hugging and kissing and the yelling of congratulations. The exuberance reflected Dick Judd, who came to the college as a big, enthusiastic kid, was graduated cum laude in 1959, went elsewhere to get a master's degree, then a doctorate, but returned to New Britain to teach.
For more than three decades, as a big enthusiastic man, he has been very much a part of the institution as a teacher and administrator, popular with students and faculty alike and also as an unofficial ambassador to the community outside the college campus, active in city affairs.
Forget the bumbling professor lost in his own thoughts and writing on esoteric topics. Mr. Judd, the author of several emergency medical texts, lives in New Britain instead of an affluent suburb; he knows the city streets, and can be very much the man of action on occasion.
Last July, for example, he was driving to the university one night when he saw what appeared to be a holdup on a street corner. Instead of riding on and looking for a police officer, he stopped his car and went over to two young men, one with his arms in the air, the other with a knife, and flashed a badge. The young man with the knife took off. The badge that inspired his quick exit was that of a city police commissioner. So Mr. Judd isn't a police commissioner anymore but, what the heck, it worked.
On the other hand, the new president of the state's oldest public college can be most eloquent, even lyrical, when he talks about education. "The demands of the information age have and will continue to have a profound impact on the fundamental patterns and cadences of learning," he said in his inaugural remarks.
Conversely, he can speedily switch to nitty-gritty problems in higher education today, particularly the one that bothers him most: Central now seems to be pricing out a lot of young people who are as poor as he once was. The state of Connecticut, he said, which once contributed about 80 percent of the cost of a student's education, today contributes just 50 percent.
He does not contend that the state, through its General Assembly, has made a conscious progressive effort to shortchange the youth of Connecticut. Rather, in his inaugural remarks, he called the state's position a "benignly neglectful policy to shift the burden of paying for college from taxpayers to students in the form of higher fees and massive borrowing. I fear so much that with the current Connecticut policy, C.C.S.U. will be put out of the reach of students, who without renewed state support will be unable to come here."
He also said he plans to be a very activist president in the effort to make his school more affordable. "Of the pledges I make today . . . one is to labor endlessly to convince public policy makers to fund C.C.S.U. adequately and to seek endowment support to provide sufficient access for our students."
Now, several weeks into his presidency, Mr. Judd is perhaps even more dogmatic about the state doing more to help students get into, and through, his university. He feels it vital not only to prospective students but also to New Britain and its surrounding area.
The city, once known as the hardware capital of the world, has taken many economic hits over the past several decades. Today, only Stanley Works remains of the glory days of hardware manufacturing, and without the industrial base, the city is getting progressively poorer.
"Those old manufacturing companies are not coming back," Mr. Judd said. What must be take their place are new technologies and a new and vastly more educated work force to make them successful. That is where Central Connecticut fits in, he said, and that is why it it is vital to make the university more affordable.
"Seventy percent of our students are working full- or part-time," he said. "The average age is 28 here. A lot of students have had to delay their educations. Some drop in and out because of money."
He will not deny that an education at Central is a bargain when compared to the costs at other institutions. Tuition, room and board and fees total $8,700 a school year if students live on campus. At the University of Connecticut, the state's scholastic flagship at Storrs, the total is $10,276.
At private colleges, costs tend to be higher. Much higher. The price for attending Yale University as an undergraduate this year is more than $27,000. At Trinity College in Hartford, it is more than $26,000.
But, of course, Central draws a good proportion of students from working class families. It and three other state universities, Southern in New Haven, Eastern in Windham and Western in Danbury, all former teachers' colleges, now make up what is known as the Connecticut State University System. Their combined total of students, Mr. Judd said, is more than the total at the University of Connecticut in Storrs and its branches around the state.
He said he does not begrudge the University of Connecticut getting a $1 billion state grant, known as UConn 2000, to upgrade its infrastructure and academic system. But he would like some of the largess of the state legislature to extend to the Connecticut State University System. "We have lots of problems with buildings here," he said, gesturing at one old building in need of roof repair on the New Britain campus.
He and other leaders of the university system, Mr. Judd said, will be pressing their case for more support from the legislature soon. Then he added, "We've got 130,000 alumni."
If that sounds like a threat, it was delivered in an even voice. Mr. Judd is not a threatening man. But he is a man of strong convictions and one of these is that society benefits when needy students are offered, and take advantage of, affordable education.
He knows something else: If he had reached college age in the 1990's instead of the 1950's he wouldn't have gone to Central. He wouldn't have been able to afford it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Judd, alumnus and president of Central Connecticut State University in New Britain. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (82%); CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (82%); CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (74%); ARMIES (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: RYAN, BILL; JUDD, RICHARD L

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



159 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 7; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL MUSIC;
Doing a Disservice To an Enduring Art

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "The Decline and Fall of the Classical Empire?" [Nov. 10], Bernard Holland does a grave disservice to both the art and profession of music. The negative portrayal of music schools, young musicians, orchestra boards, managers and players, composers, publicists and even broadcasters is full of half-truths. 
 It does not acknowledge the heroic battles all these groups are waging to foster and preserve a great, enduring and essential art at a time of severe political and economic pressures. The music world is bravely reaching out to attract new audiences. Not all strategies will be perfect, but to tar the whole effort with such a negative brush does an enormous disservice to this struggle.
There are countless demonstrations of the intrinsic vitality of music. In Philadelphia, for example, it is more relevant to celebrate the brilliant success of the Settlement Music School, whose seven branches are bursting at the seams with eager students from every stratum of society, than to emphasize the strike by the members of the Philadelphia Orchestra. The path to the future is difficult, but articles about the demise of music are destructive and misguided.
 
GILBERT KALISH
Stony Brook, N.Y.
 
The writer, a concert pianist, is a professor of music at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and chairman of the faculty at the Tanglewood Music Center in Lenox, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (55%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (55%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); 

PERSON: HOLLAND, BERNARD; KALISH, GILBERT BERNARD KALISH (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



160 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 2; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Upgrades to First Class On T.W.A. for a Fee

 BODY:
A new program from Trans World Airlines allows upgrades to first class for a fee when space is available.
For example, an unrestricted economy ticket one way from New York to Los Angeles is $1,208 (of course, most passengers travel on restricted fares that are much lower). The equivalent first class ticket is $2,051. If first class has not sold out, a passenger with a coach class ticket purchased at any published fare could have the ticket upgraded to first class two hours before departure for $150. 
 The fee is based on mileage one way: under 500 miles is $50; 501 to 1,000 miles is $100; 1,001 to 2,000 miles is $125; 2,001 to 3,000 miles is $150, and 3,001 to 6,000 miles is $250.
Travelers with connecting flights are charged according to the mileage of the overall trip. Connecting passengers can upgrade to all segments of a one-way trip at once, but upgrades for the return flight must be made the day of the return flight.
The program is available for domestic flights as well as service from the United States to Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean. T.W.A. expects to extend the first class upgrades to the rest of its international destinations next year. More information: (800) 221-2000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (78%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA) TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC (58%); TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (78%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TRAVEL AND VACATIONS AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AIR FARES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



161 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 3; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Benefits of Prepaying Mortgages

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
WHILE most homeowners are at least vaguely aware they have the option of making prepayments on mortgages, relatively few, it seems, are fully aware of the impact such payments can have on the cost of borrowing money.
"It's a pity," said Marc Eisenson of Elizaville, N.Y., who has written a book on mortgage prepayment. "There are millions of people out there who faithfully make their regular mortgage payments because they don't understand, or because no one ever told them, about the benefits of pocket-change prepayments." 
 Mr. Eisenson's book, "The Banker's Secret," published in 1990 by Villard Books in New York, is a 233-page elaboration of the simple fact that money saved is money earned. "Prepaying your mortgage," Mr. Eisenson said, "is like making a tax-free investment at the interest rate that your mortgage lender is charging you."
Mr. Eisenson explained that many homeowners misunderstand the significance of the impact that even small prepayments can have on the ultimate cost of their mortgages. Often, he said, borrowers who inquire about the subject are advised that prepayments "come off the back end" of the mortgage. In other words, he explained, making "x" number of prepayments on a mortgage will take "y" number of years off the total repayment period. But looking at prepayments only as a way of shortening the life of a loan, he said, results in many borrowers erroneously believing that the benefits are realized only if the mortgage is kept for many years. And since most borrowers suspect they will be selling their house and paying off their mortgage long before the mortgage runs its course, many borrowers decide that prepayments have no real benefit.
But in fact, Mr. Eisenson said, every prepayment that is made will save money no matter how long the mortgage is held. The reason, he said, is that every prepayment is essentially an investment at an interest rate equal to the rate being charged on the mortgage. "That can get really powerful with high interest rates and regular prepayments," he said.
When a mortgage prepayment is made, Mr. Eisenson said, the amount of the prepayment is deducted from the principal balance remaining on the loan. And while the prepayment will not change the amount of the borrower's regular monthly payment, it will change the manner in which the monthly payment is applied toward interest and principal. And that is why the benefits of prepayment begin to accrue as soon as the first prepayment is made -- every prepayment results in less being applied to interest and more being applied to principal.
"The more you prepay, and the sooner you do it, the more you'll save," Mr. Eisenson explained. Here's an example:
The interest due on a "self-amortizing" mortgage -- the kind most homeowners take out when buying a home -- is computed on the unpaid balance of the mortgage. With such mortgages, the lender calculates the monthly mortgage payment to insure there is enough money being collected to pay all the interest due while having some of the payment left over to reduce the principal.
For example, the monthly principal and interest payments on a 30-year, $100,000 mortgage at 8 percent interest would be $733.77. When the first mortgage payment is made, $666.67 is interest on the $100,000 borrowed and $67.10 is applied against the principal. So after the first payment is made, the borrower owes the lender $99,932.90.
When the next mortgage payment is due the total payment remains the same. However, since the borrower now owes a slightly smaller balance as the result of the previous month's payment, the interest due to the lender is slightly less than the interest that was due the month before. As a result, a slightly greater amount will be applied toward reduction of the principal balance. To continue with the example, of the $733.77 monthly payment, $666.22 goes to pay interest and $67.55 is applied to the principal.
If everything continues normally, the $733.77 monthly payment will be precisely the right amount to completely pay off the entire loan -- $100,000 -- and all interest due -- $164,149.00 -- in exactly 30 years.
Throw in a prepayment, however, and everything changes.
If, for example, a prepayment of just $50 is added to the first mortgage payment, that $50 is deducted from the principal balance remaining on the loan. That means that the borrower never pays a penny of interest on that $50.00 -- not for the next month, not for the next year, and not for the next 30 years.
If the same $50 is added to every mortgage payment, Mr. Eisenson said, the benefits multiply. For example, he said, a monthly $50 prepayment will save a borrower $39,906 in interest over the life of the loan, making it unnecessary for the borrower to make the last 73 payments -- six years and one month.
A borrower does not have to wait 23 years and 11 months to save with prepayments, however. After only seven years of normal payments on the example mortgage above, for instance, a borrower will have paid $54,113.55 in interest payments and would owe the lender a balance of $92,476.87. By making a monthly prepayment of $50, however, the borrower would pay $1,405.76 less in interest and $4,200 more in principal, making the payoff balance $86,871.11.
And while the above prepayment would cost some homeowners the benefit of deducting the saved $1,405.76 in interest on their Federal tax returns, Mr. Eisenson said, that same amount of interest has essentially been "earned" tax free because the borrower never has to pay it. "While you would normally pay taxes on the interest you earn, you never pay taxes on the interest you save," he said. "And now, you have roughly $5,600 more to put down on your next house."
Keith Gumbinger, a vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage industry publisher in Butler, N.J., said it would be hard to argue against the benefits of mortgage prepayment. He said, though, that borrowers should determine whether their mortgage contains a "prepayment penalty" clause. Such clauses are found increasingly in adjustable-rate mortgages, he said, because those mortgages carry low interest rates in the first few years and lenders want to discourage early payment.
Mr. Gumbinger said that borrowers who make prepayments should also check with their lender to determine how the lender wants the prepayments made. Some lenders require specific notations on the payment coupon or payment check. "Investing in your debt does come with a guaranteed return," Mr. Gumbinger said. "The problem is, most people lack the discipline to do it."
Mr. Eisenson's book can be obtained by calling (800) 255-0899.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: VILLARD BOOKS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); WRITERS (76%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



162 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: $1.2 Million Renovation;
At La Marqueta, Concrete and Enamel

 BODY:
The newest part of La Marqueta, the sloping marketplace along Park Avenue in East Harlem, is a stunning conglomerate of concrete and brightly colored porcelain enamel. But last week it stood vacant, surrounded by a padlocked eight-foot picket fence.
This rebuilt section of the upper market, between 115th and 116th Streets, officially opened at the end of October and has been used for events, but the city's Economic Development Corporation is "working out a long-term strategy to attract tenants," said Bernadette O'Leary, an agency spokeswoman. "Hopefully, that will happen in the spring." 
 Even though the market wasn't finished until this fall -- and still stands empty -- Jane Greenwood of Kapell and Kostow, the project's architect, said she was relieved that after a decade of grandiose plans for the market, at least something had finally got done.
Originally, the market revival -- La Marqueta extends down to 114th Street -- was a $20 million item in the Dinkins Administration. Under the Giuliani Administration, the budget was slashed to $1.4 million, and construction began. First, workers ripped down the old market buildings in the upper block. The most striking part of the design -- besides the hip, lower case signage: a sort of metal stencil, with a wavy "la marqueta" with big slashes that look like baseball bats -- are what Ms. Greenwood labels "stair follies." These columns are covered with graffiti-resistant enamel and sport pagoda-like orange roofs. The colors and market logo were also used on the existing enclosed lower market between 114th and 115th Streets, where a new glass facade was installed.
But there, merchants say that the money should have been used for parking spaces and advertising. Bernard Lifschultz, who sells bacalao (dried codfish), has been there for 50 years and says they need more customers."All we need's a little more money -- that'll put us over the top," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Stair folly," with pagoda-like roof, at La Marqueta. (Chun Y. Lai for Kapell and Kostow)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); VANDALISM (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (69%); TRENDS (69%); RETAILERS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



163 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
A Buyer Is About to Close on Bristol's G.M. Plant

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

DATELINE: BRISTOL

 BODY:
THE 1.25-million-square-foot General Motors ball-bearings plant in Bristol, reported to be the largest one-story manufacturing building in New England, has been contracted for sale to SF Bristol, a partnership of Harold Fetner and David Swersky, New York City real estate developers. A closing is to be held in about a week.
Originally marketed at $10 million when the plant closed in 1994, the price was reduced to $8.5 million and finally sold to SF Bristol for $5 million, including 182 acres of land on which the plant stands. 
 "I was intimidated by it," said Mr. Fetner. He was referring to the 30 acres of space under one roof, with ceiling heights ranging from 16 to 26 feet; a 70,000-square-foot basement, an annual electric and gas bill of $350,000 and the fluctuating cost of 5,000 gallons of heating oil a day.
"But," he said, "this is a Rolls-Royce compared to some of the buildings we have rehabilitated." G.M. had the plant steam cleaned, caustic washed, then fresh-water washed in an effort "to turn its pollution image around," said William W. Thompson, manager of the empty building for the auto manufacturer.
At its peak production period during World War II the plant employed 11,000 people making ball bearings, clutches, water pumps and other parts for military vehicles and airplanes. In the early 80's there were just 3,400 employees and by the time G.M. moved the remaining operations to its Sandusky, Ohio, plant the last 530 workers had been laid off.
A flood of Japanese ball bearings on the market was one reason for the consolidation, Mr. Thompson said, adding that Connecticut's business tax was probably another of G.M's reasons for moving out of the state. Corporate taxes of 11.25 percent in 1995, arguably the highest in the country, are now down to 10.5 percent and are to descend annually until they level off at 7.5 percent in 2000.
John Ritter, a broker with Sholom and Zuckerbrot Realty Corporation in Manhattan who introduced the SF Bristol partners to G.M., is the building's leasing agent for the New York metropolitan region. "The cost of doing business in Connecticut, in spite of corporate taxes, is less than in New York," he said. "There are something like 26 different taxes and fees in New York City, not to mention $40 tickets for double-parked trucks."
As for the labor pool, he said, "You may pay a bit more in Connecticut, but people there are skilled -- especially people who came out of G.M."
He said he considered the building, with its huge open bays and 14 loading docks, well suited for warehousing and distribution. It is adjacent to the Boston & Maine Railroad line, which connects with Conrail, and it has easy access to Interstate 84 and Route 8.
"Warehouses are going to be one of the best real estate assets of the future," said Mr. Fetner. "Distribution centers are popping up all over the country. We would love manufacturing, but companies are not rushing to the Northeast."
He said rents would be competitive with the prevailing $3.50 to $6 per square foot a year along the New York-Boston corridor. "We are asking $2.45 to $2.90, excluding utilities," he said. "If it became necessary we could mitigate our costs by selling off 30 acres of land, for which we already have an offer of $1.3 million."
"Spending on repairs and improvements will be minimal until we see what tenants want," he said, "and we are not talking to anyone under 100,000 square feet." .
The low cost of fitting out for warehousing and lower property taxes for such a use are financially attractive. But if the plant were dedicated entirely or in part to manufacturing it would be eligible for up to 80 percent of local property tax abatement on buildings and machinery for five years, and around 25 percent of corporate income tax credits for 10 years, according to Jonathan Rosenthal, executive director of the Bristol Development Authority. The benefits accrue from being situated in a state-designated Enterprise Zone.
AN Enterprise Zone is an area of a depressed city designated by the Connecticut Department of Economic Development. It must have unemployment rates high enough to warrant tax and training incentives that will encourage investment by industry. Details vary from town to town. Bristol's Enterprise Zone is a 2-square-mile, old downtown district where unemployment is around 10.6 percent.
"Informal city policy has been to pursue manufacturing," said Mr. Rosenthal, "with its higher tax base for a higher level of equipment. But we would not turn away a good distribution facility." The city also offers a limited number of grants to help with relocation.
For most of the 27 years that G.M. operated on the site atop Chippens Hill it was the city's largest taxpayer and employer. Its combined real estate and personal property tax on an assessment of $20.65 million was $826,864 in 1994. The assessment declined in 1995 to $20,533,590 and the personal property tax plummeted to $86,036 with the removal of most equipment.
Mayor Frank N. Nicastro, a Democrat, called the G.M. pullout "initially, a death blow to the people who had worked for 30 and 40 years for the company -- first downtown, then at the plant."
The devastating effect on the city's unemployment rate was exacerbated by the 1995 closing of the Pratt & Whitney plant in the adjacent Town of Southington, where 45 percent of the employees, or 450 workers, were Bristol residents, Mr. Rosenthal noted.
"We realized that in order to survive we had to diversify," said Mayor Nicastro, "and a key factor was to see that the G.M. plant was sold quickly. The sale is a tremendous boon to the city in new jobs, taxes from personal property, and a plant that is saved from unsalable disrepair."
The cost of totally redoing the building, tentatively called Bristol Business Center, is estimated by Ron Smith, a principal in Smith/Patterson Realty of Dayton, Ohio, as $5 million to $10 million, depending on its extent and use. "We are leasing the property within the region, exclusive of New York," he said, noting that Mr. Ritter was handling that area. His company has worked previously with G.M.'s large concentration of operations in Dayton.
"We might convert the basement of the Bristol building to an underground garage," he said, adding to 2,500 existing surface parking spaces on the side where G.M. employees entered. Now there will be several entrances for an eventual dozen or so tenants.
AN on-site power plant, which he said "could run the entire city of Bristol," may be sold or contracted out to Connecticut Light & Power. "Unless we had a big power user we wouldn't want it," said Mr. Smith.
This 26-square-mile city is home to a population of 60,000. "It's a traditional blue-collar town with a mix of residential, commercial and industrial real estate," said Alan Weiner, the city planner. "In the last 20 years the demographics have changed with the closing of Bristol Brass, G.M. and other longtime businesses. More people work out of town now."
But the tide may be turning. Plans are being submitted to Mr. Weiner's office for industrial development by outsiders and by Bristol firms that have outgrown their space.
Arthur G. Russell Company, which makes specialty machines for manufacturing plants, just moved from downtown to a new 80,000-square-foot building near the former G.M. plant. ESPN, the television sports channel based in Bristol since the late 70's, just bought 20 acres for expansion. And Kennywood, an amusement-park developer based in Pittsburgh, has bought the troubled shutdown Lake Compounce Amusement Park here, said John Leone, Chamber of Commerce director, and is investing $20 million "to rehab it as a major tourist attraction."
"Certainly the redevelopment of the G.M. plant will bring back some of those people who went to work in Hartford and Waterbury and Farmington," said Mr. Weiner.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold Fetner (far left) and David Swersky, New York real estate developers who have contracted to buy the 1.25-million-square-foot General Motors plant in Bristol (below). (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 
Map of Connecticut showing location of the former General Motors plant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; SF BRISTOL (CO) GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; SF BRISTOL (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRISTOL (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); BALL & ROLLER BEARING MFG (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR FORCE (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (68%); HEATING OIL (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); WORLD WAR II (65%); 

PERSON: FETNER, HAROLD; SWERSKY, DAVID; CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



164 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2290 words

HEADLINE: Developers' Hazard: Legal Hardball

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
NO one knows yet whether the Columbus Circle redevelopment project will wind up as a Sears or Sotheby's, a Reebok health spa or the Museum of American Folk Art, a swank hotel or a high-priced condominium apartment tower. But there is one safe bet. It will almost certainly wind up in court.
With months to go before the Metropolitan Transportation Authority selects finalists from among competing proposals for the New York Coliseum site, the chorus of litigants is already warming up. 
 Neighborhood groups are not the only ones huddling with lawyers. The Municipal Art Society may take legal action. And one competitor, Donald J. Trump, has threatened to use "force" (presumably of the jurisprudential variety) to protect the views from his nearly completed Trump International Hotel and Tower across Broadway.
As astonishing as Mr. Trump's tactic seems, he is simply following -- with customary rhetorical flourishes -- standard operating procedure for almost any development of consequence in New York City: Project gets reviewed. Project gets approved. Project gets sued.
"New York is one of the few places where litigation, and the threat of litigation, help determine strategy early on in the development process," said Carl Weisbrod, former president of the city's Economic Development Corporation and the 42d Street Development Project Inc.
Lawsuits are no longer last resorts. They are an integral part of the process. Litigation has altered the 42d Street redevelopment in Manhattan and the building of Atlantic Center in downtown Brooklyn; it has derailed other projects entirely, like Westway and Columbus Center, the previous proposal for the Coliseum site.
"It is almost impossible to finance a project when it's in litigation," said Bruce C. Ratner, president of Forest City Ratner Companies, which inherited Atlantic Center after the legal buffeting. "Even if there's a remote chance that the plaintiffs will win, the banks are not going to lend the quantities of money required."
More often than not, opponents do not prevail in court. But they need not win to achieve their goal. "Delay is money and they hope and pray that their delay will cause someone to walk out and leave the project," said Edward I. Koch, a lawyer himself, who faced many lawsuits in his 12 years as Mayor. "It's a strategic effort, knowing that they have no chance of winning."
To reduce their risk, developers often begin their defense with numbingly exhaustive environmental impact statements. These documents can run to thousands of pages, and carry price tags up to $1 million or more. Legal fees easily reach hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Add to that the costs of carrying fallow land, securing financing commitments and mounting a public-relations campaign outside the courtroom, and a lawsuit can become a multimillion-dollar item on the budget.
"We've gotten to the point where part of the overall evaluation of a project, including its price, is what would be the likely impact of litigation," said Christopher M. Jeffries, a founder and principal of Millennium Partners, one of the Coliseum bidders. In the final meeting before submitting its proposal, the Millennium team considered six key issues. Prospective lawsuits were among them.
"It's an interesting comment on the times that it's as important a consideration as the architecture," Mr. Jeffries said. "The dollars involved at a project like the Coliseum are so enormous that to purchase the land and have to sit there for three or four years could be devastating to the development."
On the other hand, local businesses and residents may believe they have no choice but to sue.
"When you're representing community interests, a lawsuit is all you have," said Douglas N. Cogen, former staff counsel to the Municipal Art Society. "You can't outbid a developer. You can't count on the governmental approval process to respect noneconomic issues. But you can file a complaint. And that gets people's attention."
It certainly got the banks' attention when Anthony Clemenza was trying to finance his 56,000-square-foot Loehmann's Seaport Plaza project, on Emmons Avenue in the Sheepshead Bay section of Brooklyn.
In July 1995, after five years of effort, he won a variance from the Board of Standards and Appeals allowing a 28,000-square-foot store in a district with a 3,500-square-foot limit. A lawsuit by a neighborhood organization called the Bay Improvement Group faulted the absence of an environmental impact statement, charging that issues like flooding and traffic had been ignored or given short shrift.
Mr. Clemenza said he was turned down by three banks and had to put his own money in the project in order to proceed with construction while the case moved through court, where he gambled on victory. Otherwise, he would have had to subdivide the space into 3,500-square-foot units.
He said he was assured by Loehmann's chief counsel that the environmental review would survive scrutiny and had been encouraged by Deputy Mayors Rudy Washington and Fran Reiter. But Mr. Clemenza was out on a limb until Oct. 23, only 19 days before the Loehmann's opening, when Justice Louis B. York of State Supreme Court ruled in favor of the project.
Successful as the project has become, Mr. Clemenza would not take such a risk again. "One or two little groups can turn around and basically tie up a project for five years, lose in the end and then appeal it," he said. "This stymies development."
Today's legal stage was set 25 years ago when neighbors of the Metropolitan Correctional Center in lower Manhattan sued to stop the project, warning of perils like traffic congestion. "The issue was whether there had to be an environmental impact statement for a prison, even though it didn't have traditional environmental impacts -- forests weren't cut down and it didn't despoil the water," said Ross Sandler, a professor at New York Law School and former city Transportation Commissioner.
In May 1972, the United States Court of Appeals found that the Government had ignored potential adverse impacts in planning the prison, ruling that environmental considerations must be construed to include urban dwellers' quality of life.
Ten years later, in April 1982, a Federal judge blocked construction of the Westway, a highway that was to tunnel through landfill along the Hudson River. He found that the Army Corps of Engineers had failed to consider the impact of the landfill on the striped bass habitat.
Simply put, the issue was not whether the highway would harm the fishery; it was whether planners had studied whether the highway would harm the fishery. (A frustrated Mayor Koch said, "If those striped bass need a place to fornicate, I'll build them a motel in Poughkeepsie.")
Around this time, one of the premier land-use law firms, Rosenman & Colin, added litigators at the outset to any major development case it was handling. Samuel H. Lindenbaum, of counsel to the firm, recalled, "I started advising clients that, unfortunately, in many if not most matters, the approval process doesn't end with what was then the Board of Estimate and is now the City Council -- but in litigation."
As vexing as this is for builders, Jerold S. Kayden, associate professor of urban planning at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, said it was "hardly surprising that in a densely populated, highly regulated city like New York, there is a cornucopia of legal hooks that citizen groups and neighbors can rely upon."
Moreover, he said he knew of no evidence that New Yorkers were uniquely litigious. That impression was confirmed by Con Howe, director of planning in Los Angeles and former executive director of the New York City Planning Department. "There are just as many lawyers per acre here," he said. "Whether it's community groups, environmental groups or property-rights people, it remains a litigious environment. I don't see any appreciable difference."
Indeed, he said, Angelenos may be more prone to lawsuits over developments that affect the natural environment. Clean-air lawsuits, he noted, are "bread and butter."
There are cities, however, where land-use litigation is not commonplace. "The ethos of suing on every project just hasn't occurred in Boston," said Marisa Lago, director of the Boston Redevelopment Authority and former general counsel of the New York Economic Development Corporation.
Because there have been no lawsuits in Boston like that against Westway, Ms. Lago said, opponents had less precedent to embolden them. She said Boston's land-use process offers a smaller target, since the authority has considerable power over zoning and functions both as the planning and economic development arm of government. Consequently, Ms. Lago said, it was possible to count on one hand the lawsuits filed in recent years in Boston.
BY contrast, you would need 10 hands -- or 5 hands and 5 feet -- to count the number of lawsuits filed against the 42d Street redevelopment project. In a remarkable twist, the developer of the first of the new office towers there, the Durst Organization, was originally one of the most aggressive litigants against the project.
What bothered the late Seymour Durst about the 42d Street project was that the government was subsidizing office development by the Prudential Insurance Company of America and Park Tower Realty that would compete with the Dursts' properties along the Avenue of the Americas, which they had bought or built themselves.
But that was not a cause of action. Instead, in the late 80's, the Dursts attacked on a variety of procedural fronts. They filed a suit to compel disclosure of the leases between the state and the developers. They filed a suit claiming that public notice had been defective. They filed a suit charging that the state was neglecting the Eighth Avenue portion of the site. They filed a suit asserting that the condemnation process did not guarantee payments to landowners.
"The things we were unhappy about weren't things you could sue about," said Douglas Durst, who is now president of the Durst Organization. "But we could sue about the fact that the Eighth Avenue part of the site was being abandoned."
Vincent Tese, who was then chairman of the state Urban Development Corporation, said of the litigants, "They were very, very cognizant of time and hoping that any delay would either wear us down or cause the developer to throw up his hands."
"The assessed value of the property rose dramatically during the period of the lawsuits," Mr. Tese said. "If it weren't for the fact that Prudential was a large company and could absorb these changes, the project might very well have not happened."
The Dursts lost every case. "Seymour said, 'We had good lawyers but they had better judges,' " Mr. Durst recalled. "As it turned out, we probably didn't have to sue, because the project would have fallen apart under its own weight in any event. The real benefit to us of the lawsuits in the end was the knowledge we gained about the project." But he conceded that the Dursts' history as litigants "made it very difficult" for them to persuade Prudential and Park Tower to sell them development rights for the northeast corner of Broadway and 42d Street.
This is not the only undertaking to have been reshaped by litigation without actually being stopped. In 1985, Rose Associates began Atlantic Center in Brooklyn, whose centerpiece was to have been two office buildings with 1.8 million square feet.
The Board of Estimate approved the project in 1986 but four lawsuits were filed on environmental grounds and Atlantic Center became so mired that it missed the mid-80's real-estate boom. Instead, it has been recently developed as a 380,000-square-foot shopping center by Forest City Ratner.
Mr. Ratner spied a silver lining in the legal cloud. "Atlantic Center would have had a hard time being an office development," he said. "But all of a sudden it became a great retail site."
Mr. Ratner believes it is getting harder for community groups to win land-use challenges, since environmental impact statements now cover "everything from toxic-waste storage to birds nesting."
And until the market grows appreciably hotter, there may be less of a taste for litigation. "When the market cools, the public is anxious that there isn't enough development," said Mr. Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York.
THE next battlefield is almost surely Columbus Circle. "I will not stand idly by if somebody has a design that is going to in any way interfere with the Trump International Hotel and Tower," Mr. Trump declared. "An adjoining property owner has power to protect a lot of things; views among them." (He would not elaborate on the legal theory underlying the assertion, and no one else interviewed for this article said they knew what it might be.)
The Municipal Art Society, whose 1987 lawsuit against Columbus Center proved to be a decisive blow, is concerned that government officials are not disclosing enough about their plans for Columbus Circle. "We think it's very important to have an open public debate," said Brendan Sexton, president of the society. "Will this round turn into litigation? Can't tell. Hope not."
The Committee for Environmentally Sound Development, which favors keeping the existing Coliseum, is talking to lawyers about possible challenges, said its vice president, Olive Freud, but would prefer to negotiate now than sue later.
Councilwoman Ronnie M. Eldridge said it was up to state and city officials to create an open, cooperative climate. "They encourage hostility in the community by not talking it through," she said. "That, of course, is what breeds litigation in the long run."

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Loehmann's store in Sheepshead Bay section of Brooklyn was subject of lawsuit by neighborhood group. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Drawing (Arnold Roth)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RATNER COS (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; REAL ESTATE LITIGATION (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); MAYORS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W DONALD TRUMP (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



165 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Plan for Stores at Linden Airport Readied for Takeoff

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: LINDEN

 BODY:
HAVING put together what they say is the right plan with the right development team at the right time, officials here hope the long-awaited redevelopment of the Linden Airport may be close at hand, opening a new chapter in the city's revival.
To carry out the city's five-year-old plan, the latest in a 25-year effort, a developer was designated in October to convert 100 acres of the 188-acre city-owned site along Routes 1 and 9 into a mixed-use complex. 
 Called Aviation Plaza, the $150 million project -- on the western and eastern sides of the diminished airport -- would contain 1 million square feet of retail, entertainment, recreational and hotel space.
The complex would be developed by Philips Linden, a partnership of Philips International of Manhattan, known for its shopping centers, and Prudential Securities, the financial services subsidiary of the Newark-based insurer. Philip Pilevsky, president of Philips International, said site work could begin in January with construction to start once all approvals are secured, which he expects by the summer.
The 88 acres bracketed by the complex would become a smaller and updated version of the federally financed airport, built in the 1940's and used today for small cargo and private planes. In return for keeping the airport open on part of the site, the Federal Aviation Administration released Linden from its obligation to maintain the entire tract as an airport until the year 2002.
That along with the F.A.A.'s approval of the latest plan three months ago cleared the way for the mixed-use project in this old industrial Union County city, which over the last 18 years has watched its economic base weaken as major companies reduced operations or moved.
Mayor John T. Gregorio said he was eager for the start of the project "to put ratables on the books, bring jobs and people to the city" and help diversify its economy. Estimates are that the project would generate $2.5 million in new tax revenue annually and provide 2,000 permanent jobs.
The added hope, he said, is that it would raise property values and trigger other projects on vacant and underused parcels up and down Linden's four-mile-long industrial and commercial zone along Routes 1 and 9.
At the same time, Mayor Gregorio said, the city is working with downtown merchants on Wood Avenue to improve that 16-block business corridor and insure its continued viability as the airport redevelopment plan unfolds. As part of its redevelopment agreement Philips Linden is to contribute $500,000 to downtown improvements.
The partners are to pay the city $20 million for the 100 acres, $2 million of which has been paid. The rest is to be paid contingent on receiving approvals and closing title to the site. The partners also agreed to make the necessary improvements to the existing entrance to the site as well as to Routes 1 and 9. The nature of the improvements must still be hammered out with the State Department of Transportation and approved by that agency.
MAYOR GREGORIO said $5 million from the land sale as well as some $3.5 million in state and Federal grants the city has received or will receive this year will go to among other things upgrading the airport and creating an entrance, separate from the commercial project. The city will recoup its investment from fees from the airport operator.
What is envisioned under the plan is the relocation of the airport to the middle of the site, leaving 70 acres fronting Routes 1 and 9 open to development. That area is to have up to 650,000 square feet of commercial space, including some 500,000 square feet of retail space, mostly comprising big-box retailers. There will also be restaurants, a 110,000-square-foot, 30-screen, 6,000-seat movie theater and a 150-room hotel.
The remaining 30 acres in the eastern edge of the site will contain recreational and additional entertainment uses such as a golf driving range and batting cages.
A project this size carries its share of risks, especially in a location not widely known for retail. But Mr. Pilevsky said he and his partners got involved because finding so large a tract of land three miles from New York City via the nearby Goethals Bridge to Staten Island was rare. He also said some 800,000 people with a median household income of $43,465 live within a seven-mile radius of the site.
Aviation Plaza is advancing at a time when retail development seems to be on the rise. A key reason is that tenants want to expand in and move to the state because of its dense population and large number of high-income residents, said Arthur E. Weiss, a senior associate at the Parsippany office of CB Commerical, a national brokerage. And many of them, particularly specialty retailers, want bigger blocks of space, he said.
But getting to this point has been a frustrating journey for the city, which over the years explored to no avail redeveloping all or part of the site. For example, redeveloping all 188 acres, the plan before this one, required Linden to find a replacement site for the airport before the F.A.A. would release the city from its lease. A site was found but talks with the community to accept the transfer and the F.A.A.'s approval of a redevelopment plan never materialized.
At the start of this decade Mayor Gregorio pursued the current plan, which he calls a compromise. But its progress, too, was slowed by delays in securing the $3 million in Federal funds to improve the airport; the funds were granted three months ago. In addition, negotiations with an earlier developer had broken down, forcing the city to find another developer, which took a year. Philips Linden was chosen over 13 others.
Not everyone is pleased with the plan, particularly former Mayor Paul Werkmeister, who supports now, as he did when in office, redeveloping the entire tract. He contends that the newer plan was drawn without sufficient public participation, is a "planner's nightmare and shortchanges the city." He said waiting until the lease expires to redevelop the 188 acres would generate more tax revenue and eliminate the airport, which he said loses money and is a drain on the city.
Mayor Gregorio conceded the airport would never be a big moneymaker, but said "the only way for Linden to grow is commercially and the opportunity exists now." The city also needs the jobs and revenue now, he added.
There has been and continues to be a lot of interest from retailers in the site, added Fred C. Michaeli, president of Planners Diversified in Summit, a consultant to the city on the airport project. "If we don't seize that opportunity these tenants will go elsewhere."
Mr. Pilevsky said he was negotiating with tenants for 85 percent of the 650,000 square feet of retail and entertainment space and had commitments from a movie theater operator, a supermarket and a home improvement chain. He said rents would be in the $10 to $20 a square foot range.
DOWNTOWN merchants feel they have been buffeted to a degree from competition from the airport project with the creation 18 months ago of a special improvement district, or SID, in which property owners tax themselves to pay for physical improvements and services. So far the downtown has gained, or is getting, new sidewalks, street lamps and trees. A program to help merchants improve storefronts will start soon.
"With the proper environment merchants will be able to compete," said Michael T. Bono, director of the SID and the Linden Economic Development Corporation. He said traffic from the airport project could cause some spinoff downtown.
George Boerer, the owner of BZ Fashions, a women's store that has operated on Wood Avenue for 50 years, agreed. He said he "knows what is coming but is upbeat" because of the downtown improvements and because "we have a lot to offer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John T. Gregorio, Linden's Mayor, at the Linden Airport. Above right, photograph of artist's rendering of redevelopment plan, which includes Aviation Plaza mixed-use complex. (Photographs by Sam D'Amico for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey showing location of Linden.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (56%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (56%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; LINDEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROVALS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAILERS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



166 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 27; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Another Perspective On Newark's Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "The Reinvented State" (Nov. 17), James W. Hughes and Joseph J. Seneca present a portrait of the "new" New Jersey. According to the authors, in this reinvented state, suburbs have replaced cities as the major locus of economic activity. 
 Looking at the statistics through the 20-year mirror used in the article, this analysis is accurate enough. However, the 20-year perspective does not reflect what has been happening to Newark's economy during New Jersey's recovery from the devastating recession of 1989 to 1992.
Approximately 90 percent of the decline of 32,000 private-sector jobs in Newark from 1976 to 1995 occurred in the first decade of these 20 years. Since the late 1980's, there has been a substantial slowdown in the rate that employment in the city was declining, and Newark actually gained almost 2,000 private-sector jobs from 1994 to 1995. And, yes Atlantic City has 40,000 gambling jobs, but Newark has almost 23,000 transportation jobs -- an increase of more than 50 percent from 1975 -- that account for 15 percent of all transportation jobs in New Jersey.
What does all of this mean? It does not mean that the many problems facing Newark have been solved. And it does not mean that New Jersey, like the rest of the United States, has not experienced phenomenal employment growth in its suburbs and rural areas.
What it does mean is that Newark has not rolled over and died in the last 20 years. It is true that, taken together Edison, Piscataway Township and Franklin Township have more jobs than Newark. But Newark still has more jobs than any other single municipality in the state, and you can get to many of these jobs without taking your car on the gridlocked New Jersey roads.
And Newark has infrastructure in place. It may need some repair, but there is no need to destroy more of New Jersey's open space to build yet another water main or more interstate highways.
Newark and other cities in New Jersey are learning to capitalize on what they are, not what they have been. Perhaps it is time to take a new look at them -- as places that can be reinvented for the 21st century.
 
DR. MARILYN RUBIN
Wayne
 
The writer is a professor of public administration and economics at John Jay College, City University of New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GAMING (52%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, MARILYN (DR)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



167 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: FLUSHING;
When Vision May Require A Third Eye

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
The lights clicked off. The sound of an Indian flute filled the room, and the 75 people seated on folding chairs in the basement of a synagogue on Kissena Boulevard closed their eyes. The evening's quest: find your Third Eye.
Among those meditating during the monthly meeting of the Queens Psychic Club last Wednesday were professional psychics promoting their services -- Louis the flower reader, Michael Ravenspirit the shamanic counselor, healers, clairvoyants and hypnotists. But there was a strikingly ordinary quality to many of the participants, working people from around the borough who came to dabble in spiritual explorations usually associated with places much quirkier than Queens. 
 There was the teacher from Howard Beach, the dressmaker from Far Rockaway, the accountant from Jamaica, the rare-coin salesman from Flushing, all pursuing metaphysics on the side, seeking more control over their lives and friends who know about "the gift."
"I've been having a lot of premonitions," said the dressmaker, Maria Perez, 49. "I thought maybe if I got some training, I could learn to control what happens to me, maybe improve my economic situation."
The club's membership, according to Robert Cecilio, who founded it in 1993, has grown steadily to 150 members. Mr. Cecilio, a 62-year-old College Point resident, said the club, which features regular meditation, lectures and workshops, is a more intellectual alternative to the much-ridiculed world of storefront fortune tellers and psychic hot lines.
"We're trying to get people away from the scams and the Charlie Chan images of turbans and rising tables," said Mr. Cecilio, who described himself as a semiretired entrepreneur. "This is not about telling people, 'You will marry a tall, dark handsome man.' It's about searching for the meaning of life, for something that's missing."
For many of the club's members, the meetings offer a safe place to discuss metaphysical phenomena rejected or ridiculed by skeptics. During a cigarette break outside the meeting room, Dan Wiko, a freelance writer and publicity man from Bayside, said he regularly sits in a trance at his desk while information is "channelled" through him, from the universe into his computer. Others nodded in recognition and spoke of their own "automatic writing" experiences.
Daryle Goldstein, a graphic designer from Sunnyside who recently began reading Tarot cards, said that until she joined the club, she thought no one would understand her psychic feelings. "It's confirmation," she said. "I'm not weird."
During the meditation the other night, few actually found their Third Eye, which in the psychic world is said to be used for seeing into the spiritual universe. Clear signs of a successful Third Eye initiation include an itchiness between the eyes, a green wave rushing through the head and hot hands, according to Lorry Salluzzi, a stress management therapist from Long Island who led Wednesday's meditation.
During the session, Ms. Saluzzi guided the group on a "journey" to a place where a cobalt blue ocean massaged their toes, a frolicking dolphin offered a magical necklace (telepathically), and the love of 1,000 grandfathers healed the emotional wounds of life. Back in Flushing, a beeper went off, but the crowd did not stir until the exercise concluded.
Then a woman reported that she had experienced an itch between her eyes. "I may need a third contact lens," she said, as laughter rippled through the room. SARAH KERSHAW

GRAPHIC: Photo: A meditation session at the Queens Psychic Club, which bills itself as a safe haven for metaphysicists. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "MIND MATTERS: Metaphysics 101"
Bob Cecilio, the founder of the Queens Psychic Club, lectures on metaphysics and meditation around the city and hosts "Psychic Awakening" on Queens Public Access television. Here are his definitions of metaphysics terms.
 
Metaphysics The study of beginnings and of what is outside objective experience.
 
Psychic A person sensitive to spiritual energy. Reads the past, present and future by sensing the energies and vibrations of the spirtual world. Tools used to read the energies include:
 Clairvoyance Seeing images, messages and angels
 Tarot cards 72 cards, each with a different symbol that, when shuffled by a person receiving the reading, produce "energy" that is interpreted by a psychic
 Numerology Psychic uses your birth date and the numerical value of the letters in your name to "find your path in life"
 Astrology Reading of stars and planet
 
Reincarnation The basis of all psychic phenomena. "You can't get a message if you don't believe it," Mr. Cecilio says .
 
Meditation The path to connecting with the spiritual world. "When the mind and body is relaxed, you become one with the universe," Mr. Cecilio says.
 
Medium What Mr. Cecilio calls "the brain surgeon" or "the Cadillac" of psychics. Has the ability to communicate with individual spirits, such as "loved ones on the other side," by "channeling," or forming a direct line of communication with a spirit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS PSYCHIC CLUB

ORGANIZATION: QUEENS PSYCHIC CLUB

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PSYCHIC PHENOMENA ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (60%); WRITERS (60%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (56%); 

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



168 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CO-OP CITY;
Anger as the Green Belt Shrinks

BYLINE: By ANDREA K. WALKER 

 BODY:
Co-op City has long been known as a self-sustaining community with shopping strips, schools and a governing board. But over the last few years large retailers have moved into the surrounding area, slowly transforming it and attracting loud opposition from some Co-op City residents.
First there was Bay Plaza, a retail and office mall just south of Co-op City that opened in 1989 and includes the retail giants Kmart, Pathmark and Rickel. Now Rosenshein Associates, based in Mamaroneck, N.Y., is proposing to build a 140,000-square-foot shopping plaza at Co-op City Boulevard and Peartree Avenue, near the center of the complex, that will include an Edwards supermarket and a National Wholesale Liquidators. The proposed site is about a mile from Bay Plaza. 
 "We wanted it to stay green in the country, but more often than not we're seeing mortar and brick," said Arthur Taub, who has lived in Co-op City, the nation's largest cooperative development, since 1969.
Last month, Community Board 10, in an advisory vote, denied the Rosenshein proposal. The Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer, will also make a recommendation before the proposal goes before the City Council and the City Planning Commission.
As in other neighborhoods around the city that have seen an influx of large retailers, Co-op City residents have argued that another shopping complex will force smaller businesses to close. And while the developer says the proposed shopping plaza would bring 250 construction jobs and 500 retail jobs, residents complain that the permanent jobs would pay minimum wage and provide few health benefits. They also say Edwards would put Co-op City's three small supermarkets -- C-Town, Bravo and Associated -- out of business. The developer, Bernard Rosenshein, strongly denies both claims.
"Not everybody is against the project," said Kathy Zamechansky, a lobbyist and real-estate consultant representing Rosenshein Associates. "There is a small cadre of people who are quite vocal and who are quite loud. We now have the chance to prove that we are not just a symbol of urban blight, but that we can be an economic machine."
Councilman Lawrence Warden, who represents Co-op City, supports the proposed mall. "This is the one time that I have ever seen a developer bend over backwards to adapt to the community," he said. Mr. Warden cited the developer's pledge to ease traffic by prohibiting left turns out of the shopping center on busy two-way streets and to increase the time span on the left-turn signal onto the New England Thruway. Even with those measures, some Co-op City residents have said, the new shopping plaza would attract thousands of people to the area, as Bay Plaza did, on roads ill equipped to handle a new influx of traffic. ANDREA K. WALKER

GRAPHIC: Map shows proposed site of new shopping plaza.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ROSENSHEIN ASSOCIATES CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (90%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (90%); CO-OP '82 UA (90%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (90%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (90%); CO-OP STAR RT (90%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (90%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (90%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (90%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (90%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (90%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (90%); ROSENSHEIN ASSOCIATES (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROSENSHEIN ASSOCIATES NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CO-OP CITY (BRONX, NYC) RETAILERS (92%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); LOBBYING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); 

PERSON: WALKER, ANDREA K MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



169 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 12; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: RED HOOK;
Shipping Deal Promises Jobs

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE 

 BODY:
After decades of decline, shipping in Red Hook is hitting a new high -- with a little help. A deal announced by the city's Economic Development Corporation is expected to bring 10,000 additional cargo containers a year to the Red Hook Container Terminal and create an estimated 374 new on- and off-site jobs.
Supporters of a multimillion-dollar upgrade of Brooklyn's largely dormant piers say the deal shows the waterfront's untapped potential in a booming worldwide shipping market. But others warn that the success represents growth in a niche market, not the birth of an era. 
 Business and the number of jobs at the Red Hook terminal -- a small center that excels at unloading specialized cargoes -- has risen steadily since sinking to an all-time low in 1993. But the terminal, owned by the Port Authority, still operates at a loss, losing $6.3 million in 1995.
The new deal also comes at a price to taxpayers. Under the agreement, Zim American-Israeli Shipping Company will move 10,000 additional containers through the terminal. Zim and its partner, Pan American Shipping, are consolidating their operations and had considered moving to New Jersey, as countless shippers have done since the 1960's.
But Zim chose to stay in Red Hook after the City Economic Development Corporation sweetened the pot. Depending on volume, Zim could receive as much as $370,000 in annual credits for the next three years.
The Red Hook Terminal reflects the much larger issue of how to make the port more accessible to a new generation of deep-running freighters. The focus of intense debate and several state and city studies, tens of millions of tax dollars are spent on the industry each year.
Jack Dean, a senior analyst at the Regional Plan Association, said the Red Hook deal shows Brooklyn's potential to grow -- slowly. "There are incremental steps that can be taken before a major investment is needed," Mr. Dean said. "The bottom line is that that part of the city is somewhat landlocked by rail or by road."
The sealed metal containers, which are either 20 or 40 feet long, require large areas for storage and easy access to modern highway and rail links, two things that the city lacks. In the 1970's, city officials moved slowly to upgrade facilities and shipping companies moved in droves to more spacious and modern piers in New Jersey, devastating New York's once bustling waterfront. Keeping Zim on the New York side of the harbor was a rare victory for the city. New Jersey currently has 93 percent of the harbor's trade.
In the future, the new larger container ships could navigate through Brooklyn's naturally deep channel, offload and the containers be shipped by barge to New Jersey's more accessible rail and road system.
Brooklyn's waterfront is already well suited for commerce like receiving goods for immediate sale or use in the city, Mr. Dean said. Fresh fruit and construction material, for instance, can be unloaded and quickly delivered at night. Many products sold in the city are delivered as far away as Philadelphia and brought in at a cost of several hundred dollars per truckload.
Lillian Borrone, port director for the Port Authority, said any major waterfront investment must meet a demand naturally created by the business. "Before we make the investment, we must be sure the city's going to need it," she said. DAVID ROHDE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Visiting from Hamburg, the Godafoss takes on containers in Red Hook. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)
 
Table: "THE SHIPPING NEWS: Rising Volume"
 Once a center of waterfront commerce, the Red Hook Container Terminal saw its volume of cargo traffic plummet in recent years. Subsidies have generated new business but the terminal still operates at a loss. Table lists statistics with regard to containers unloaded, commodity unloaded, and net operating losses for the terminal during the 1990's. (Sources: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; New York City Economic Development Corporation; American Stevedoring)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RED HOOK CONTAINER TERMINAL (BROOKLYN); PAN AMERICAN SHIPPING; ZIM AMERICAN-ISRAELI SHIPPING CO PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: RED HOOK CONTAINER TERMINAL (BROOKLYN); PAN AMERICAN SHIPPING; ZIM AMERICAN-ISRAELI SHIPPING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK HARBOR; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CONTAINERIZATION; LABOR CONTAINERIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); 

PERSON: ROHDE, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



170 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MIDTOWN;
Ta-Ta 42d, Hello Broadway

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
In 1990, Rebecca Robertson took on one of the most ambitious urban makeovers in the world: rethinking and rebuilding 42d Street, the heart of Times Square, which had become known for little but pornography, squalor and crime.
As president of the 42d Street Development Project, a state agency, she condemned and cleared the 10 acres of 42d Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, relocated more than 300 businesses, closed more than 40 sex shops, and brought in tenants like Disney, Sony, Madame Tussaud's wax museum and Conde Nast, the magazine publisher. 
 Now, with only two more leases left to negotiate for the project, Ms. Robertson, 46, has announced plans to resign as president early next year to become a senior executive in charge of real estate at the Shubert Organization, which owns 17 of Broadway's 32 theaters.
"In my new job," she said, "I want Broadway to be as vibrant as Times Square."
In a recent interview, Ms. Robertson was asked what lessons she would be taking from 42d Street. ANTHONY RAMIREZ
 
HAVE A DREAM "A big project needs a big vision; otherwise you lose your focus."
Her vision for Broadway, she said, is: "The most dazzling, the most exciting, the most recognizable street in the country, with things for highbrows and lowbrows, people of all age groups and incomes, with businesses that are national big guys and unique New York stories."
 
LISTEN "Listen to as many people as possible -- from the politically well connected to community groups to your Dad's second cousin twice removed."
She heard a lot of opinions about 42d Street. In one focus group, a restaurant owner said the area had to be "exciting, chaotic and a little honky-tonk." Community groups talked about not losing "the soul of Times Square." And Ms. Robertson's nephew, Tom Knief, a bank employee in Illinois, said: "Movies. If you don't have movies, it's not going to be for Everyman."
(The new 42d Street will have 39 movie screens from American Multi-Cinema and Sony, with more than 9,000 seats.)
 
DECORATE "Esthetics create economic value."
Just a few years ago, she said, most tourists who visited Times Square "would stop, look, and then take pictures of each other." And then, she said, they would flee for fear of crime or a distaste for sex shops. That led her to emphasize large, glitzy signs and recognizable retailers, like Footlocker.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rebecca Robertson is shifting from 42d Street to Shubert Alley. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (63%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SHUBERT ORGANIZATION; FORTY-SECOND STREET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT INC AMC ENTERTAINMENT INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHUBERT ORGANIZATION; FORTY-SECOND STREET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; FORTY-SECOND STREET (NYC); TIMES SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); DISMISSALS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (70%); FOCUS GROUPS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%); 

PERSON: ROBERTSON, REBECCA; RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



171 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
The Fed Tries To Deflate A Bubble

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
What's a Federal Reserve chairman to do when speculation is running rampant?
That is a question that resonates in history. Historians have blamed the Fed for sitting by when stock prices went up beyond any rational basis in 1928 and 1929. Perhaps the Great Crash could have been avoided had speculation been stemmed earlier. 
 With some measures of valuation showing the market at unprecedented highs -- measures that can be and are explained away by some analysts -- Alan Greenspan has decided to try a little jawboning.
The first sign of that came a couple of weeks ago when The Wall Street Journal reported, without citing any sources, that the Fed "would welcome less exuberance on Wall Street" and "wouldn't mind a gentle slide in stocks."
That same day, The Journal carried a column by Henry Kaufman, a noted economist who is worried about excessive stock speculation, warning that the Fed might need "to take actions that may not be necessary to pre-empt a rise in inflation, but may be decisive in heading off an unsustainable financial bubble."
And how did Wall Street respond? That very day, the Dow Jones industrial average leaped 76 points, to a record 6,547.79. Bearish voices were not to be heeded in a market that had gone more than six years without a decent correction, in which almost everyone had learned that any dip was a buying opportunity and in which the risk of a bear market seemed smaller than the risk of missing profits by being out of the market.
So on Thursday night, Mr. Greenspan was more explicit. How, he asked rhetorically, "do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values, which then become subject to unexpected and prolonged contractions as they have in Japan over the past decade?" He did not offer an answer but made clear he didn't care much if share prices plunged, so long as that did not have a significant effect on the economy.
This time, the financial markets paid attention, and a selloff began that night in the stock index futures market, then spread around the world as virtually every market tumbled. In New York on Friday, the Dow fell as much as 144 points -- in percentage terms less than many foreign markets -- but rallied back as a disappointing employment report reassured traders that the Fed wouldn't dare tighten credit now. And if he won't act, who cares what Mr. Greenspan says?
Which brings us back to the original question. What can the Fed do? There was a time when it could have sent a signal to the stock market by raising the margin rate -- effectively the amount of money a speculator needs to put down to buy stock on credit. But the Fed has given that up, and it probably wouldn't matter anyway. Investors, after all, have many other ways, among them options and futures, to place stock bets without putting up much cash.
So if jawboning fails, the Fed has only the option of raising short-term interest rates. With signs of economic weakness apparent, that seems unlikely. Perhaps, in retrospect, a little jawboning when the economy was stronger -- and the threat to raise rates more credible -- would have been in order.
It is interesting to note that Mr. Greenspan's speech came a couple of days after he met privately with top Wall Street strategists, who explained the reasons they were bullish. We hear he didn't say much at that meeting. But it looks like he was not convinced. Perhaps others would be wise to join in his skepticism.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Getting Nervous" shows biggest weekly declines this year in the Dow Jones industrial average.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS HISTORY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); BONDS (75%); FUTURES (72%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



172 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3514 words

HEADLINE: The Merlin of the Mall Tries Out New Magic

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and EDWARD WYATT 

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio

 BODY:
THE real problem, Leslie H. Wexner says, is other people.
Whenever the women's apparel business has slipped at his $8 billion company, the Limited Inc., he has devised the right fixes, he says. It's his subordinates -- the merchants who bought the goods that ended up gathering dust on the shelves of the Limited, Express and Victoria's Secret stores -- who have failed to come through. 
 Then there are the mall developers. They became "mindless about the tenant mix" in the 1990's, took the fun out of shopping by building cookie-cutter sites and dragged down the Limited and other retailers.
It is the men and women of Wall Street, Mr. Wexner says with unbridled scorn, who failed to appreciate the true value of the Limited, without a doubt the dominant specialty retailer in the American mall.
Nevertheless, Mr. Wexner says he now has a grand plan to satisfy investors and to turn around the business, whose stock has disappointed shareholders for much of the last four years as sales growth has slowed and profits have fallen.
Under the guidance of a Harvard Business School professor, he is moving to centralize certain functions, ranging from financial management to clothing design teams that can churn out hot fashions to draw women into the stores.
Tired of fighting mall developers, he is using the Limited's resources to design a 1,200-acre retail, entertainment and business complex in Columbus, a project that he says will serve as a model for retailing development in this country -- if not the world.
And while he does not pretend to understand Wall Street, he predicts that recent moves, including the public stock offering of two subsidiaries, will soon add billions to the company's market value.
"The turnaround in the company probably came last spring," Mr. Wexner said with characteristic bravado in a recent interview at the headquarters here. As evidence, he predicted that fourth-quarter profits would rise by close to 50 percent, far above the expectations of Wall Street, which is familiar with his habit of making rosy projections only to disappoint come earnings time.
Even if he engineers better short-term profits, however, bigger changes will not come easily. The corporate culture that pumped life into the Limited in the 1980's has eroded as the company has evolved from a cool fashion leader to a lumbering conglomerate. Left behind are burned-out merchants and only the remnants of an intangible mystique that drew young talent from New York to the Midwest.
And Mr. Wexner, whose flair for fashion and merchandising fueled the Limited's meteoric rise, remains an entrepreneur at heart, endlessly delving into new retail concepts, the latest being a sporting goods superstore. Perhaps because of that temperament, he has consistently failed to resuscitate the troubled women's units -- Limited, Express, Lane Bryant and Lerner New York -- that together contribute more than half of the company's sales but less than 10 percent of its profits.
A further distraction seems to be his concern with his legacy. In Columbus, Mr. Wexner is a veritable second mayor, shepherding cultural projects downtown while using his personal riches (his Limited stock alone is worth $1.25 billion) to develop an exclusive residential enclave nearby.
Mr. Wexner's habit of flitting from one project to another, while always asserting that the Limited's struggling core business was on the mend, has frustrated some big shareholders. "I have made up my mind that in the next couple months, we are going to be gone," said Marina Carlson, a mutual fund manager at Strong Capital Management, which earlier this year owned nearly a million Limited shares. "If they could get their act together, this could be a good stock. But in typical Limited fashion, they came out with lowered expectations again this quarter. It is just amazing to me."
Wall Street's confusion is evident in the valuations it places on the company's three publicly traded stocks. The parent, the Limited Inc., owns about 82 percent each of Abercrombie & Fitch and Intimate Brands, which includes Victoria's Secret. Those stakes are worth a combined $29 a share to Limited investors. But the parent company's stock is trading at just $18.25, up a slight 7 percent since the beginning of 1994. Meanwhile, the Standard & Poor's retail stock index has gained 22 percent and the S.& P. 500 has risen 61 percent.
UNDOUBTEDLY, Leslie Wexner is one of the great merchant princes of the late 20th century. Starting with a single store and $5,000 in 1963, he updated the business of selling clothing to women by offering them fashionable separates for particular life styles, like Shaker knit sweaters that evoked the Italian countryside and preppy shirts that were theoretically great for a day in the Australian Outback.
Investors who recognized the concepts' potential in the early 1980's watched the company open new stores and start new divisions like Express. All the while, their Limited stock appreciated from less than $1 a share, adjusted for splits, to a high of nearly $33 in 1992. But the stock has not traded above $25 since early 1993.
 Mr. Wexner's transformation from modest shopkeeper to billionaire evokes unreserved admiration from those who watched it. "He's like a wizard," said Norma LaMoreaux, a longtime Columbus resident who first met Mr. Wexner in the early 1960's. "One never knows what he's thinking, but he weaves these grand plans and then suddenly everything falls into place."
Few outside the hard-core mall crawlers have any idea of the breadth of the Limited's retail portfolio, which offers a theme store for nearly every occasion. In addition to Limited and Express, the women's shops present in nearly every big mall in the country, the company operates Lerner New York, which sells discount sportswear, and Lane Bryant, a specialist in large sizes.
Usually nearby in the mall is Structure, a young men's shop, and, in fewer spots, Abercrombie & Fitch, for latter-day preppies of both sexes with a penchant for field hockey, tailgate parties and the sweater vest. Limited Too has clothes for children and infants.
A stroll past the traditional smock-and-frock shops in the mall often leads to the Intimate Brands units: Victoria's Secret, the now-famous outpost of lacy bras and three-for-the-price-of-two panties, and Bath and Body Works, the company's biggest recent success, a dewberry-scented world of soaps, lotions and bath mitts. There are also four Henri Bendel stores, in select locations, and a handful of other shops here and there.
An empire so large might be expected to have trouble running on all cylinders at once. But over the years, the Limited has fallen into an alarming pattern: it develops exciting new stores, nurtures them into industry leaders, then watches them flounder when a new toy enters the playpen.
In the mid-1980's, for example, the Limited and Express were the places for American women to stock up on sweaters and cool pants, and Mr. Wexner's love for those divisions and their chief merchants was well known. In 1982, the company bought Victoria's Secret amid scorn from skeptics, and its sales quickly boomed as he lavished attention on it. In 1985, after buying Henri Bendel, Mr. Wexner obsessed over every detail of store openings and, former employees said, promised to roll out stores across the nation. By 1990, Bendel's sales had fallen flat, and Limited's latest faux-import line, Paul et Duffier, had failed.
Never fear, Mr. Wexner already had his eyes on Bath and Body Works, the Intimate Brands unit that sprouted seemingly overnight in malls across the country. But as that unit hit full stride this fall, sales flattened at the Victoria's Secret catalogue division. Now, Mr. Wexner expresses excitement about his sporting goods venture, called Galyan's Trading Company, with just six stores so far but ambitious plans.
Susan Silverstein, a retail stock analyst at Gruntal & Company, said: "Each division as they grow has to stay on the ball, which is easier to do when you are small and nimble. But this is the fashion business, and to stay nimble on the fashion side is no easy task."
As a result of inattention, analysts say, the Limited divisions mostly look alike now. Even those shoppers who can hum a Sears, Roebuck jingle impromptu are hard-pressed to cite differences among the Limited's core businesses, largely because the company has long resisted national advertising and other forms of marketing.
"The Limited is for young kids, while Express goes a little older," said Barbara Terrell, on a recent shopping trip at a Lerner store in Columbus.
Melanie, her 20-year-old daughter, disagreed: "I would say it is other way around."
"Maybe you're right," Mrs. Terrell conceded. "All of their stores kind of blur together for me."
For the record, Mr. Wexner said, Express is intended for single, chic shoppers; Limited stores for suburban mothers, and Lerner for career women on a budget.
MR. WEXNER now says the revival of the core women's business will focus on creating brand identities for each store chain. He says he believes the secret to doing that is in differentiating the merchandise that each store offers. And despite pressure from Wall Street to develop national sales campaigns, he says he does not believe advertising achieves that goal. Whenever his chains have tested ads, "we couldn't prove the payoff," he said.
Mr. Wexner acknowledges that the road he has chosen for the company is littered with others' failures. "The paradigms of multiple-division speciality retailers don't exist anymore," he said. Edison Brothers, whose far-flung ventures included the Jeans West, J. Riggings and Oak Tree clothiers and the Bakers and Chandlers shoe stores, filed for bankruptcy protection last year. The Melville Corporation, whose Thom McAn stores shod generations of children, this fall changed its name to CVS, after shedding all but its drug stores.
Certainly, economic shifts helped to dash some of the Limited's aspirations: women lost interest in apparel in the first half of the 1990's, a depressed real estate market hindered the growth of malls and an abundance of poorly performing mall stores snatched away market share.
But retail experts and former Limited employees say Mr. Wexner's management style has depressed morale and earnings. He has oddly positioned himself, they say, as both a micromanager who wants his hands on all parts of the business, often at the expense of others' ideas, and as a distanced and overtaxed executive who increasingly gives power to corporate bean counters.
One part of Mr. Wexner's grand revitalization plan particularly irked the Limited's merchants: the creation of fashion teams set up to design clothes and styles specific to each division. Though the strategy was intended to stop the confusing overlap in merchandise from store to store each season, merchants say it has transformed them from creators who zip around the globe looking for emerging trends into corporate drones whose authority is limited to saying, "O.K.,, make that in green," or "Bring the hem down two inches."
"As the Limited started to really grow and expand," said Pamela Goodman, who resigned as president of Lerner New York in January, "all of these divisions became a little more bureaucratic and dictated from the top, and that was a little boring to me. A lot of the power has been taken away from merchants."
Mr. Wexner said the need for the changes became apparent to him three years ago after a series of conversations with Jack Welch, the chairman of General Electric, a multidivisional conglomerate whose performance Mr. Wexner envies.
Allan R. Tessler, chairman of the International Financial Group and one of only three of the Limited's 13 board members who have no apparent ties to the company or to Mr. Wexner, said that the board remained watchful and that it had "demanded that he get help" running the business.
No matter whose idea, in early 1993 Mr. Wexner hired as a consultant Leonard A. Schlesinger, a Harvard Business School professor who has since been made a director.
"I walked into a company that really was a collection of entrepreneurial-minded people," Mr. Schlesinger said, "where anything that smacked of centralized involvement or mandates was absolutely verboten."
To address problems created by three decades of haphazard growth, Mr. Schlesinger designed a system to centralize information systems, the hiring of senior personnel for the divisions and general financial controls, and put them under the direction of subordinates to Mr. Wexner. He also set out to begin redefining the company's retail units into distinct brands.
Central to the plan's effectiveness is Mr. Wexner's ability to work within such clearly drawn lines -- and Mr. Schlesinger acknowledged that this remains to be seen. "I would agree that Leslie Wexner has not been a hands-off leader at any time in the history of the business," Mr. Schlesinger said. Indeed, when two reporters arrived to interview Mr. Wexner on a recent afternoon, they found him niggling over a television advertisement for a new Victoria's Secret bra. He recalled, with fresh fury, the tale of a "former" marketing manager whose suggestion for the bra's name -- Hide and Sleek -- evoked a car wax in his mind. Mr. Wexner chose another name: Perfect Silhouette.
"Ten years ago the culture was one that encouraged shared decision-making at lower levels in the organization," said Kirk Palmer, a former midlevel executive at the Limited who now runs a retail executive search firm. "Unfortunately, bureaucracy and politics have made their way into the business, which stifles creativity."
MR. WEXNER'S propensity to dabble in all aspects of the business continues to vex Limited executives, who sometimes vent their frustrations outside the company. "There is stress in the organization," said Herbert Mines, a retailing executive recruiter. For that reason, he said, "They may have a little bit of trouble now keeping people."
Mr. Wexner is known for being intolerant of employees who do not meet his expectations or carry out his edicts. Several years ago, one senior executive's first task as a division president was to dismiss nine people, who were told to clean out their desks before being escorted from the building by security. Mr. Wexner said recently that "forcing turnover, being aggressive about it, is healthy for the organization." Another former employee recalled that phone records were scoured by company executives to determine which employees were talking to executive recruiters. Mr. Wexner said he could not recall such an inquiry.
Mr. Wexner, who gives a deep shrug when asked about personnel issues, said he was not difficult to get along with. "The furthest thing I see myself from is an autocrat," he said. He calls himself "a leader, reflective, open to ideas, challenging, fair, visionary."
But another example of how his relationships can turn unpleasant is a dispute at his charitable group, the Wexner Foundation, which has given away more than $8 million in each of the last three years. Last year, it filed suit against his mother, Bella Wexner, a nonagenarian, in the Court of Common Pleas for Franklin County, Ohio. The dispute centers on a period in 1992-93 when Mrs. Wexner, who along with Mr. Wexner was one of the foundation's two trustees, was incapacitated by illness. At that time, Mr. Wexner appointed a new trustee in her stead, a move she now opposes.
Mr. Wexner concedes that he does not always operate on the same plane as everyone else. "I think temperamentally I've always lived in my own world, and that world is very much in the future," he said. "I don't get much pleasure out of today."
In addition to having spent most of his life as a bachelor -- he married in 1993 at age 55 and now has three children -- in childhood he was "a daydreamy kind of kid."
Recently, it seems, Mr. Wexner has dreamed about real estate, residential and commercial.
Stretching for miles east of Columbus along Ohio Route 161 are new white plank fences. The highway, too, seems spanking new: six lanes of free-flowing, high-speed access to Columbus, a stark contrast to traffic snarls in other parts of town.
Welcome to New Albany. The fenced-in land belongs to Mr. Wexner's New Albany Company, the developer of an exclusive, 6,000-acre enclave where $500,000 Georgian brick houses are popping up like dandelions after a wet spring.
While driving through the Ohio countryside some 10 years ago, Mr. Wexner was taken with the beauty of this rolling farmland. So he quietly began buying it up from local residents with his personal funds, through an anonymous corporation.
A SECOND project, across the highway from the Limited's offices along Interstate 270, is being paid for in part by the Limited Inc. It is Easton, the vast shopping, business, entertainment and residential complex now under construction.
According to plans disclosed by Mr. Wexner in January, Easton will require $1.5 billion in private investment. Most of that will come from outside developers, though the Limited has already put $75 million into the design and development.
Despite that commitment, the Easton project has gone without mention in the Limited's reports to shareholders that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Asked why Easton had not earned a reference in those documents, Mr. Wexner said, "We never felt it was a disclosable item," because it was small in comparison with the company's annual capital expenditures of $300 million or more. Much of the land on which Easton is being built was acquired over the last 15 years, he said, and that investment will be recouped in 1997.
Mr. Wexner's plan for Easton is sweeping: he aims to recast the mold of the American shopping center.
"I fundamentally believe in the mall," he said. But in three decades, there have been few drastic changes in how tenants are chosen or grouped, in mall architecture or in the decisions that make shopping a pleasant experience, he said. Mr. Wexner will not specify exactly what will be so different about Easton -- scheduled to open in stages over the next few years -- but he says that without his reinvention of the mall, that distinctly American retailing creation will "wither on the vine."
Easton will soon be connected to Mr. Wexner's luxury residential development by a new highway built partly with funds from the Limited. "They are within five or six miles of each other," Mr. Wexner said, "but that's the only connection."
In terms of his time, Mr. Wexner said the real estate projects did not pull him away from retailing. Easton, he said, takes "one hour a month," perhaps an understatement of his commitment, those involved with mall projects say.
"He is out developing property, which is a 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a-week job," said Therese Byrne, editor of Retail Maxim, a newsletter that specializes in real estate issues involving the retailing industry. "It takes a lot of effort, and remember, this is an autocratic ruler who doesn't delegate. He is a one-man show. Plus, he is doing this at a time when his core business is in trouble."
Easton aside, the big question for Limited shareholders is whether the corporate restructuring will ultimately bolster profits. That will depend on getting the women's business turned around and, perhaps at the same time, unlocking the value in the various subsidiaries.
When the Limited sold roughly 18 percent of each of its Abercrombie and Intimate Brands units to the public in recent years, it structured the deals to make a tax-free spinoff of the remaining 82 percent easy for the Limited shareholders.
If the company takes that path, Mr. Wexner notes, the subsidiaries have to set up operations to function as stand-alone public companies. They now rely on their parent for administrative functions.
The Limited's current centralization plan, however, seems to pull the company in the other direction -- away from giving Intimate Brands and Abercrombie their freedom. Even if those units were spun off, the parent would be left with the weak women's businesses.
In the interim, Mr. Wexner says other recent initiatives should add to the company's share price. The Limited's credit card business this year was moved into a free-standing joint venture with Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, a New York investment firm. The increased earnings power of the venture, of which the Limited owns 40 percent, should add "a couple billion dollars' worth of market cap to the business" within 24 months, Mr. Wexner said.
In addition, Abercrombie should continue to expand, and the Galyan's sporting-goods store will be tested for further growth.
If everything falls into place -- a revival of the core units, continued growth of new store concepts, a continually buoyant stock market, and neither a slump in consumer spending nor a jump in bad debt -- the Limited's future might be bright. But Wall Street has heard such promises from the Limited before.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leslie H. Wexner, at the Limited's headquarters in Ohio, has a one-word message for Americans that would also help his company. (John Abbott) (pg. 1); Express, for chic young women's fashions.; Victoria's Secret, for lacy lingerie.; Structure, for young men's clothing. (Photograph's by John Abbott) (pg. 12)
 
Graphs: "A Stock That's Stuck" shows percentage change in the Limited's stock price, the Standard & Poor's 500 and the S. & P. Retail index since the end of 1993. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) (pg. 1); "King of Specialty Stores" show percentage change in The Limited's revenues and net income, 1986-1996; monthly closing stock prices for The Limited, weekly closings for Intimate Brands and Abercombie & Fitch. Tables show sales and number of stores of The Limited and other clothing stores. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; company reports) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: LTD (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448190 OTHER CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (76%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LIMITED INC L BRANDS INC (91%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIMITED INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (76%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (76%); STOCK OFFERINGS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); 

PERSON: WEXNER, LESLIE H; STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; WYATT, EDWARD LESLIE H WEXNER (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



173 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2581 words

HEADLINE: The Dinner Party

BYLINE: By MONIQUE P. YAZIGI 

 BODY:
A DOZEN guests were minutes from arriving at Nan Kempner's Park Avenue duplex for dinner the Saturday night before Thanksgiving, but Mrs. Kempner had only one thing to worry about: positioning a pink curler in her blond bob. The curler's function: to make the dip in the bob fall perfectly over her right eye.
There was nothing else for Mrs. Kempner, long known as one of Park Avenue's premier hostesses, to do. 
 Her masseuse had left a bit earlier, so she was relaxed. Her maid, Maria Moura, along with Sylvina, her cook, had set the five-pedestal dining room table for 14. The chocolate truffles from La Maison du Chocolat and the sterling silver bowls full of fresh fruit were placed around the 17th-century Oriental porcelain roosters. The 28 Steuben wine glasses were properly positioned above the Flora Danica plates.
 Noel Arramon, the French butler, surveyed it all. He had only to move a few of the ivory-handled fish knives into proper position before igniting the eight candles on the crystal chandelier. The candlelight glistened off the golden silk-paneled Chinese wallpaper. "Oh, darling, this dinner is casual," said Mrs. Kempner, her long, thin body covered by a brown knit floor-length Fendi dress. She wore a faux gold necklace she had picked out with the jewelry designer Kenneth Jay Lane, who was coming to dinner. The night was in honor of her house guests, Tim Vreeland, an architect and son of the former Vogue editor Diana Vreeland, and his wife, Nancy.
Mrs. Kempner's husband, Thomas, a Wall Street investor, was just waking up from his nap. And the four-course meal was well under way.
Ah, the Park Avenue dinner party, long the ritual of the city's upper crust, where introductions to New York society have been made and important relationships solidified for decades. To many, such parties may seem like relics of a world past. But from Nov. 15 to Dec. 20, Manhattan's high social season, and again in May, they are in full swing four nights a week in lush, rambling apartments on Park Avenue (between 58th and 79th Streets), on Fifth (between 60th and 85th Streets), on Sutton Place, on Beekman Place and in sumptuous town houses in the East 60's. It's not that no one on the West Side gives dinner parties, but they remain an Upper East Side institution, part of what can still be a closed, rigid world -- though not as closed as it once was -- where sizing up guests is an art and the artists are harsh.
After Truman Capote's legendary Black and White Ball of 30 years ago, at which he shocked Park Avenue by mixing social classes, the drawing room doors have gradually opened to actors, media moguls and recent divorcees from out of town. And to younger hosts and hostesses who may not have Mrs. Kempner's eight sterling artichoke-shaped pepper mills, but who yearn for social acceptance nonetheless.
"Please do not say that we don't give formal dinner parties," insisted Walter Deane, 34, a commercial real-estate broker and a trustee of the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club. "I go to one a week in the city; they're just not necessarily on Park Avenue."
These days dinner parties are often more about public relations than social climbing. Take Christie's. The auction house retains Sue Railey, who lived and entertained in Paris for 33 years, as an "international representative." Her job now: to give monthly dinner parties for Christie's, each with 32 guests of her choosing. "You never know who may buy or sell," Ms. Railey said, "but it's good will."
Unlike their mothers and grandmothers, who usually had little but social obligations to fill their days and nights, many of the city's wealthy young women work. They and their male counterparts choose restaurants or private clubs like Doubles or the Colony Club for their dinners. "I don't notice Samantha Kluge or the Miller sisters giving sit-down dinners in their homes," said Anne Hearst, a contributing editor at Town and Country magazine and a granddaughter of William Randolph Hearst.
 
 
 
The Plot
 No matter where it is staged, the formal dinner party is always plotted and scripted, with subplots, chapters and twists planned and unexpected. "You are the casting director, and your guests are your cast of characters," said John Loring, the design director of Tiffany's, who has written seven books on parties (six edited by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis). Mr. Loring, who was giving a seminar at Sotheby's on table settings, takes the party subject very seriously.
"Look, the guest list is the most important part," he said.
His cousin Barbara Kates, an associate at Sotheby's in New York and Southampton, loves to add pretty single women to her dinners full of married couples. "They add intrigue to the plot," she said. "You want to create that edgy feeling."
Martha Glass, who is married with two young children, remembers giving "little" dinner parties when she was single and living in the East 60's. "You could invite 10 people and throw in some male you were interested in to the group," she said, "and he would never know the difference."
Chappy Morris, an investor known on the party circuit as one of Manhattan's eligible bachelors, certainly knew the difference the night that a close friend who has many beautiful -- and single -- female friends, invited him to a formal dinner. "I was excited," Mr. Morris recalled.
The hostess, he said, intentionally seated him "so well" -- to the right of young blond model who had just moved to New York. But seated to the model's left was the owner of a perfume company who told her he was looking for a new model. "She didn't once turn to me and even say hello," said Mr. Morris, who occasionally found himself staring across the table with no one to talk to. "She would not stop flirting with this guy." So much for the script.
 
 
 
The Men
 Mr. Morris's experience to the contrary, there is often an overriding concern on the circuit about pleasing men. Are they happy with the food? Are they involved in conversation? "If the husband isn't happy, then the wife will be reluctant to come out again," said Jeanne Lawrence, a Park Avenue hostess. Unless the wife has another escort, known in society parlance as a walker.
Walkers are single men, many of them gay, who enjoy going out, night after night, and who have acquired the wardrobe and social graces to be the perfect date. A walker is not expected to pay for anything (that is the function of the woman he escorts). But he is expected to look handsome, dress well, say all the right things and walk his date to the door (and no farther).
It is not the walkers, however, that hostesses are obsessed with pleasing. It is the eligible bachelors and the husbands. And the reason is economics. Dinner parties -- and more important, the life style they accompany -- are expensive, and few women on this circuit, unless they are blessed with a large inheritance, earn enough to pay the bills for a major dinner party (let alone several a year) on their own.
A partner in the high-end catering company Glorious Food, Sean Driscoll, said the cost of an average dinner for 12, including food, staff and decorations, was about $2,000. When the guest goes up to 60, expenses also soar, to as much as $24,000, according to Mr. Driscoll. And that does not include a proper apartment, with drawing and dining rooms. Louise Beit, a broker who handles high-end apartments for Stribling & Associates in Manhattan, said a 6,000-square-foot, six-bedroom duplex with five baths in an "A plus" building on Park Avenue (Nos. 720, 740, 770 and 778, to be precise) costs about $5 million. Cash. Financing is rarely allowed. And the average monthly maintenance is about $7,000.
Mrs. Kempner's husband, Thomas, an investment banker, is well known for his lack of enthusiasm for the dinner parties his wife so enjoys. Few of the Kempners' guests register even a smidgen of surprise at seeing Mr. Kempner, an apple and a glass of milk in hand, tiptoeing up the stairs to bed at about 10 P.M., just as his wife and their guests move to the drawing room for two more hours of coffee and conversation. "That," Mrs. Kempner says, "is why he looks so young." What does make the male dinner party guest happy?
David H. Koch, executive vice president of his family oil business Koch Industries, who bought Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis' apartment, attends dinner parties a few times a week with his wife, Julia, whom he married in May. "What turns my motor is if there's intelligent, stimulating people where I can learn something," Mr. Koch said. "I want to feel it was time well spent."
He and other men on the circuit appreciate good food and good wine. "Great wine is very seductive," Mr. Koch explained. And while he likes guests to be dressed elegantly, the environment should be relaxed and down-to-earth, not stuffy. And the evening should end promptly. "I have to get up and work the next day," he said, "so I want to be home in bed by 12."
Mr. Morris appreciates organization and promptness. "I like the hostess to be very precise with the timing of the dinner," he said, "No one ever showed up late for my mother's parties. I get very uncomfortable when you feel no one is in charge and things are drifting."
 
 
 
The Food
 Rare is the dinner guest who eats heartily, and protocol does not allow a request for second helpings, but food is still a critical component of any dinner party.
"Bad food can socially ruin you," said a well-known host who insisted on anonymity, "but mediocre food may allow you a second chance."
Mrs. Kempner falls asleep reading cookbooks and recipes passed down from her mother and her grandmother. But she, like most other hostesses, does not cook, grocery shop or serve. And she never gets up from the table during dinner. However, she does plan the menu with Sylvina a few days in advance of each party.
"I've gotten rid of the consomme course from my grandmother's day," Mrs. Kempner said. "My grandmother simply had more help than I do. People eat lighter now too. I don't want to fill everyone up."
Those who lack a great live-in cook hire one, preferably from a four-star restaurant. Alice Mason, a realtor who is known for her 60-guest black-tie dinners six times a year, hires the restaurant Daniel to cater.
Ms. Mason who goes to tastings days before her parties, said, "While it's certainly about wonderful food, it's even more about the presentation." At her party this Tuesday there will be risotto with truffles, stuffed quail with foie gras and salsify, spinach and for dessert, chocolate mousse.
 
 
 
The Lessons
 Even if you don't care about high society and don't have live-in help, the art of party giving on this level has been honed to the point that it yields a cornucopia of hints for the more plebeian host.
There's Mrs. Kempner's rule against fragrant flowers on her dinner table, so as not to taint the palates of her guests. Instead, she puts a scented candle by the entrance to the duplex and keeps the dining room door tightly closed to preserve the element of surprise about what she is serving.
Jessica Deutsch, the director of public programs at Sotheby's, brings groups to estates in England and Newport, R.I., where faux royal dinners are staged. Her participants learn how to dip their stainless steel flatware from Pottery Barn into gold paint to simulate the gilded sterling used at the Regency-period dinners, at the end of the 18th century in England. Ms. Deutsch also suggests buying cheap white plates and using nontoxic, edible paint (available at art stores) to design patterns on them. And for those who don't have the real thing, inexpensive wooden candleholders can always be spray-painted silver.
Dinners can have a theme. Tonight happens to be spaghetti night at the Kempners (come straight from your country house for straw-and-hay pasta).
Many successful ones honor a guest, like the one Alexis Gregory gave last week for James Snyder, the new director of the Israel Museum in Jerusalem. But there are other reasons. Isabelle Leeds had just sent her living room rug out to be cleaned, so she knew it was time, too, to invite 50 friends for a black-tie, sit-down dinner.
"I do it every five years," said Ms. Leeds, New York State's chief of protocol under Gov. Hugh L. Carey. Without the rug, and with the furniture stacked in the dining room, Ms. Leeds could fit all her guests at six tables set up in the living room and still have room for a baby grand piano, a three-piece combo from Peter Duchin's orchestra and plenty of space for dancing.
Her only problem: "Something no one in New York ever experiences," Ms. Leeds said, laughing. "I had too many men. There were three more men than women."
 
Advice to Guests: What Not to Do
IN the world of the society dinner party, the rules are unspoken, and strict. So if dressing to the nines to break bread with a dozen or 60 movers and shakers is not your idea of a fabulous night, commit a few of these faux pas and it won't take long for your name to be crossed off guest lists up and down Park Avenue.
 
FOR WOMEN
Rub the leg of the married man seated next to you during dinner. While he may be too polite to speak up at the time, eventually he'll tell his wife. And she will tell the hostess.
Wear clothes that are extremely revealing.
Talk negatively about your first husband, especially if he is a friend of the host.
 
FOR MEN
Disappear for a hour or so to watch the Knick game in another room.
Show up in a suit when the invitation specifies black tie. And casual doesn't mean jeans. It means jacket and tie.
Talk negatively about your first wife, especially if she is a friend of the hostess.
 
FOR BOTH
Wait until the last minute to cancel. "New York is very naughty about canceling the day of the party," says Anne Hearst, a frequent dinner guest. "Things come up. But if it happens more than twice, invitations will be far and few between."
Spend the entire night talking to the same person instead of following the old rule of speaking to the person on your right during the first course, the person on your left during the second, and so on.
Show up more than 30 minutes late for a sit-down dinner.
Drink too much.
Hand out your business cards.
Ask other guests, especially doctors, for professional advice.
Wander into rooms whose doors are closed.
Leave early because you have another party to attend.
Fail to call the next day or to send a thank-you note.
 
Open Their Invitations First
 THIS is the height of the dinner party season, and invitations from Manhattan's most famous hostesses are coveted. How to tell them apart:
Brooke Astor Draws guests from the pinnacle of society.
Anne Bass Mixes downtown and uptown.
Pat Buckley Stimulates heated political discussions. Runs a true salon.
Annette de la Renta Entertains Europeans from the worlds of fashion and culture.
Nina Griscom Attracts the younger set including media movers-and-shakers.
Nan Kempner Relishes spontaneity, imaginative, delicious food and an international mix of guests.
Isabelle Leeds Doesn't throw as many parties as in years past. Guests are the stalwarts of New York society like former Gov. Hugh L. Carey, Beverly Sills, Pauline Trigere and Arlene Dahl.
Alice Mason Shuns high society in favor of wealthy executives and local real-estate gossip.
Blaine Trump Favors guests of honor from the ranks of royalty.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Isabelle Leeds invites the stalwarts of New York society. (David Corio for The New York Times)
 
; Photos: "I could do this every night," Nan Kempner says of the dinner parties she gives. Top: Alexis Gregory's dining room is a popular stop on the circuit. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times; Chang W. Lee/The New York Times [inset]) (pg. 1); AT ISABELLE LEEDS'S -- After sending her rug out to be cleaned, Mrs. Leeds invited 50 of her closest friends for dinner and dancing to three of Peter Duchin's sidemen. (Photographs by David Corio for The New York Times); AT NAN KEMPNER'S -- Maria Moura, the maid, is one of the people who makes the party happen. As dinner hour approaches, the French butler, Noel Arramon, lights candles. (Photographs by Linda Rosier for The New York Times); Isabelle Leeds invites the stalwarts of New York society. (David Corio for the New York Times) (pg. 14)
 
Chart: "PARTY POINTERS"
 
Tips for a successful dinner party, whether on Park Avenue or Pelham Parkway:
Keep a list of close friends who will not be insulted when you invite them to fill in for last-minute cancellations.
If the food is sensational, shorten the cocktail hour. If it's not, serve great wine with dinner.
A large dining room isn't essential. Set up round tables in any room.
Tables should be small so guests sit close together, creating energy. Many society hostesses use 60-inch round tables to seat. Alice Mason prefers 42-inch rounds for 8, "the smallest tables in town," she says.
Arm chairs are a no-no. You don't want guests to sit back; you want them to sit up, and talk.
Place flowers low on the table so people can see across. "You wouldn't have a picnic around a bush," George Trescher, the society party planner, tells florists, quoting President Theodore Roosevelt.
Lighting must be low. Candlelight is preferable. "You don't want to look across the table," says Nan Kempner, "and see a blue complexion." (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PARTIES (SOCIAL) HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); FINE JEWELRY (74%); JEWELRY (74%); MASSAGE SERVICES (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); 

PERSON: YAZIGI, MONIQUE P KENNETH JAY LANE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



174 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Ancient, Priceless And Gone With the War

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
THE story begins about 27 centuries ago, when Sennacherib, King of Assyria, the greatest empire the world had known, failed to conquer Jerusalem in 701 B.C.
"And that night, the angel of the Lord went forth and slew 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians," the Bible says in II Kings 19. "Then Sennacherib, King of Assyria, went home, and dwelt at Nineveh." 
 It wasn't his last defeat. Not by 2,697 years.
Last month John Malcolm Russell, a Columbia University art historian who is one of the world's leading experts on Sennacherib's palace at Nineveh, got some wrenching news. An unknown seller was offering 10 pieces of art from ancient Mesopotamia, which is now southern Iraq. A lawyer for a prospective buyer, photos in hand, wanted to know: Did Mr. Russell think they might have been stolen?
"I knew right away where they were from," Mr. Russell said last week. The pictures were of fragments from magnificent alabaster reliefs that had lined the walls of the palace at least until 1990, when Mr. Russell photographed them on his last trip before the 1991 Persian Gulf war. Among those reliefs, part of an archeological site museum near the city of Mosul, were carvings telling the Assyrian side of the Jerusalem campaign. Sennacherib's version was that the Israelites had paid tribute and he left.
But much has happened since this century's war in the Persian Gulf. International sanctions have impoverished the Iraqis, many of whom have sold family heirlooms for food. Today the country's archeological treasures are also up for sale.
The life and times of one of the world's greatest and oldest civilizations had been carved on massive stone slabs up to eight feet square. The photographs Mr. Russell saw were of fragments about a square foot in size hacked from those slabs.
"It only dawned on me a few hours later that what this meant was that there was a pile of broken stone left behind," he said, "that what we had here was not just an act of vandalism and looting but a conservation emergency of the first magnitude."
Mr. Russell, author of "Sennacherib's Palace: Without Rival at Nineveh" (University of Chicago, 1991), says the exact extent of the damage is unknown. "I don't know if these are the only 10 pieces on the market. I'd be surprised. Ten sculptures from Sennacherib's palace is an unheard of number to appear on the market at once. When something appears in quantity like that, you've got to ask yourself, how can this be?"
And who did it?
Mr. Russell has been called in as art sleuth before. Twice in 1995, a European museum asked his opinion on works believed to have been stolen from Iraq. In 1992 he and Julian Reade of the British Museum found a four-foot-by-six-foot Assyrian stone carving behind a thick coat of paint in the commissary of a boys' boarding school in Canford, England. The school sold it for $12 million in 1994 to the Shumei Family Collection in Japan.
The story of the Canford sculpture and the connoisseurship of Lady Charlotte, a wealthy Victorian who built a pavilion for it and other Assyrian treasures, became another book by Mr. Russell, "From Nineveh to New York," to be published by Yale University Press in February. New York City's Metropolitan Museum houses some of the collection.
Lady Charlotte was a cousin of Sir Austen Henry Layard, who excavated Sennacherib's palace in 1847 as well as other sites on commission from the British Museum. The carving recalling the confrontation at Jerusalem struck a chord in England during a period of religious doubt and scriptural revisionism. Fundamentalists seized on these "proofs."
Many poor countries with rich archeological sites cannot afford to safeguard them, and are vulnerable to smugglers. By almost all accounts, though, Iraq -- even under Saddam Hussein -- took good care of its rediscovered antiquities through most of this century. The sanctions against it have kept archeologists and art historians from the sites, and difficulties felt by Iraqis have made the country's centuries-old ruins prey to thieves, with or without the connivance of local officials. Most archeologists and diplomats believe that there is no high-level involvement in these thefts.
"Given the economic hardships that people are under, obviously there are many who resort to criminal acts to try to make some money," said Nizar Hamdoon, Iraq's representative at the United Nations. "There are a thousand sites that need to be guarded and provided with security. It is difficult for the antiquities establishment in Baghdad to find those resources."
Mr. Russell said that he thinks people who steal and sell items are paid a pittance, and that pieces small enough to be carted away on donkeys or in backpacks slip easily into Iran, Syria or Jordan. Once on the market, they change hands for thousands of dollars, often tens of thousands.
UNESCO, the United Nations cultural organization, has been denied permission to photograph and catalogue Iraqi sites by the Security Council Sanctions Committee. American diplomats said photographic equipment was denied entry because it was considered nonessential goods.
Mr. Russell, who alerted the United States Customs Service, Scotland Yard and arts organizations, hopes prospective buyers of Assyrian art will refuse pieces of uncertain origin, dampening the trade. "Iraq was a country that cherished its heritage and had an excellent antiquities department that carried on its work right through the miserable Iran-Iraq war," he said. "It's only with sanctions and the breakdown of the middle class -- as groups of desperate people do desperate things -- that we have a breakdown in the national will or pride in that heritage. This is fostered by desperation. It could happen anywhere."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Malcolm Russell, the art historian, recognized a photograph of this fragment.; The fragment, top, outlined on 1990 photograph of a detail from a sculpted slab.; The archeological museum in Iraq that contained Assyrian carvings from the palace of Sennacherib, in 1990. The carvings were vandalized after the gulf war.; Mr. Russell also was shown a photograph of this archeological fragment, believed to have been stolen in Iraq.; A huge alabaster relief, with the fragment, top, outlined. (Photographs by John Malcolm Russell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (87%); UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: GULF INTERNATIONAL SUDAN (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (87%); UNITED STATES (51%); INDIAN OCEAN (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; PERSIAN GULF WAR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HISTORY (78%); SCULPTURE (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); TRENDS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ART HISTORY (70%); VANDALISM (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



175 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: Word For Word/Unruly Passengers;
High Crimes and Misdemeanors: The Flight Logs of Uncivil Aviation

BYLINE: By TOM KUNTZ 

 BODY:
SEATING stressed-out and revelry-minded people in a cramped cylindrical space for hours on end while serving them powerful depressant beverages at high altitude and encouraging them to think they deserve the royal treatment is probably not the best way to elicit model human behavior.
Support for this theory comes from reports filed by airline personnel about unruly passengers and other problems. Incidents of airplane mayhem appear to be on the rise, as air traffic gets more congested and planes more crowded. 
 Among recent, well-publicized cases is that of a United Airlines passenger from Connecticut who, swacked out of his mind and cut off from the airline's hooch, defecated on a food cart. Then there's the rich widow who is suing American Airlines after the pilot tied her up with her dog's leash in a dispute over stowing the pet (a Maltese named Dom Perignon). Not to mention the guy on a British Airways flight from India to London who began rubbing butter all over his body while chanting.
American Airlines says the number of incidents of verbal and physical abuse against its crew members nearly tripled from 1994 to 1995, to almost 900. While many incidents are amusing for the foibles they expose, airline employees say the threat of violence on the job is no joke. Prodded by American Airlines and flight attendants' unions, the Federal Aviation Administration last month signaled a sterner line, urging a range of airline procedures to curb (rather than tolerate) abusive passengers.
Here are flight attendants' accounts of incidents on a variety of airlines, some of which resulted in arrests. (In-flight interference is a Federal crime and can draw the heat of the F.B.I.) The accounts are excerpted from incident reports made available by the Association of Flight Attendants. The union withheld the names of airlines and people involved. TOM KUNTZ
On a Newark-to-San Francisco flight in May 1994:
Passenger upset that flight attendant didn't have her special meal, used abusive language and then threw her wine in his face, and then hit him on the head with the empty wine bottle. . . .
On a Chicago-to-Orlando flight in October 1994:
Following completion of the safety demo, [passenger] in 16C struck flight attendant . . . in the head. Flight attendant explained that this behavior was unacceptable and tried to calm him down. Flight attendant smelled alcohol on his breath at this time. . . . Five minutes into flight, flight attendant witnessed [the passenger] spit on another passenger seated in 16D. The second officer came back to talk with [the passenger] and the decision was made to go back [to the airport] . . .
On a San Francisco-to-Las Vegas flight in October 1994, off-duty airline employees were trouble:
Flight was uneventful until passengers in seats 20 E&F ordered their drinks and then flashed [an employee] ID badge when it came time to pay for their drinks. . . . The party was sarcastic and loudly blurted out, "I take a gamble when flying [this airline]!" Flight attendant then responded, knowing they were employees, [that] they should be more discreet. Female passenger then yelled at flight attendant that [the attendant] . . . was serving her and "she is the customer because she is flying 'full fare.' " After landing, and during deplaning, the male passenger approached flight attendant, intoxicated, and demanded his badge. When flight attendant refused, passenger shoved flight attendant and as flight attendant tried to move away from them they both tried to block him while yelling obscenities. . . .
On a Jan. 20, 1996, flight from Taipei, Taiwan, to San Francisco, an incident involved a passenger who was evidently an influential Taiwanese:
I never served a passenger like this. . . . I was in the galley [and] he came . . . to ask [for] wine and try to talk to me and ask me out. But I said "no" and I refused to give him wine because he was drunk. Then he walked down to first class yelling and disturbing the passengers. . . . I called cockpit to ask [them] to turn on the seatbelt sign so I could ask him to return back to his seat. After he returned to his seat, he pushed the call button and I went to answer. He asked for another drink. I said, "You should take a good rest; we don't have any wine left anymore." He said, "I got a better idea," then grabbed my arm and tried to kiss me. I pushed him away and said, "If you dare to touch me again, I'm going to sue you." . . . He came to the galley and said . . . "You want to be in big trouble?" [implying he could use his influence to retaliate against her if she told] . . . I really don't know how to handle this situation.
Before takeoff of a Feb. 13 flight from Los Angeles to Chicago, a flight attendant learned that a passenger on the previous flight had left the plane a mess. Superiors seemed nonplused:
Flight attendants on inbound aircraft relayed to me that a passenger lost control of all bodily functions in back galley and also the lav. . . . I immediately went back to see for myself and was appalled at what I saw. . . . Cabin service personnel were starting to clean it with a dust mop, squirt bottle, coffee grounds and [the airline's brand of] cologne. They saturated the spots, making the floor squishy . . . The smell of the feces/cleaner/cologne made me gag. Halfway through the cleaning process the caterers changed the galley without the cabin service personnel cleaning the floors underneath the carts. I immediately went to the duty supervisor and told him I was uncomfortable with the situation and did not want to take the trip.
He showed little or no concern and said they would clean it . . . Finally [a] supervisor came to the aircraft along with captain . . . Both doors were open with a draft going through and the captain said he didn't smell anything . . . He disagreed with my judgment but should be commended for showing concern for my feelings . . .
On an April 14 flight from Chicago to Paris:
While I was doing the service in [first class] the man in 15H asked me to turn off the light so he could make love to his wife. . . . She didn't seem to be pleased. It looks like [this] was the cause of the argument. A couple of hours later he asked me to move his wife to another seat. She didn't want to at first . . . but to avoid any problem she moved.
Then the wife returned . . . [He] asked me to tell her to move back to economy. She said: "I'm his wife. I want to stay here." He started screaming at her, using very vulgar language, and pushed her away. I asked the lady to go back to economy as it was the safest place for her. . . .
On a Nov. 14 flight from San Francisco to Narita International Airport in Japan:
Passenger . . . seated at 22G indicated [to] flight attendant during cocktail service that he had to go to sleep without meal, therefore requested double scotch. He had another double drink before the meal service . . . [and was] served another double scotch during meal service. At the same time [he] expressed frustration/anger for not being able to smoke on flight. Requested drink from other flight attendant after meal service. Amount of liquor consumed is unknown but we purposely delayed delivery of drinks, so he purchased duty-free scotch and started drinking from the bottle. (This was observed/reported by passengers seated around him.)
Passenger . . . in 21H came back to aft galley and informed me that [the unruly passenger] was smoking in 22G and disturbing all other customers in the vicinity. I asked him politely not to smoke and gently removed cigarette and extinguished it. Japanese passenger in 22F during all this time was extremely polite and accommodating. After the cigarette was removed I communicated with the Japanese passenger. . . . That's when [the drunken passenger] grabbed and held my wrist and told me to "shut up and listen" to him, and ordered me to speak in English only. That's when flight attendant came on to the scene and assisted me in escaping from this man's very strong grip. . . .
The assisting flight attendant reported this: I grabbed his hands, [and] was able to make him release his grip on her. . . . I tried to explain to him again that smoking was not permitted anywhere on the aircraft and that his action of grabbing and pulling [the flight attendant] is against F.A.R. [Federal air regulations] and is a serious problem. I then bent down to speak with him quietly, eye-to-eye level. As I was explaining to him the seriousness of his action . . . he put his hand on my left shoulder as if to say "O.K." and slid his right hand up and around my throat. . . . This done, he began pressing hard on my Adam's apple. The pressure became dangerous and my instinctive reaction was [to] grab his thumb and render it unusable. I then strongly informed him that he crossed the line . . .
The captain arrived moments later . . . Again [the passenger] became verbally abusive . . . and tried to grab his hands. The captain strongly requested that he was not to be touched at any time and that he should return to his seat. . . . [He] returned to his seat, at which point I asked him to turn over his duty-free scotch . . . He complied . . . [The] other flight attendant requested that he just go to sleep and he did. (He passed out.)
[But later he] got out of his seat and walked to door 3R to 3L, crossing past all the lavs. [A passenger] . . . was sleeping . . . What woke her up was someone pushing on the seat back. When she opened her eyes she saw [him] leaning over her, which made her think he was having a heart attack or ill, only to discover that he was unzipping his pants and began urinating. . . .

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (55%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (83%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (55%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; ASSAULTS AIRLINES (93%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (86%); AIRPORTS (76%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (76%); LITIGATION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (73%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (70%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (55%); 

PERSON: KUNTZ, TOM

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



176 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 46; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Inflating the Inflation Index

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Caution: Economic Statistics Are Wrong" (Market Watch, Nov. 10), Floyd Norris offers an accurate account of mischief that can result from overstatement of inflation in the Consumer Price Index. A major issue, however, is only alluded to -- the unfair treatment that spares tens of millions of us from the inflationary erosion of our incomes through cost-of-living adjustments and that places the burden on those least able to cope with price increases. 
 My wife and I, now retired, receive five pensions: two from Social Security, one from the military establishment, one from state government (derived from teaching) and another from a private-sector pension fund. Only the last is not escalated. Is it fair that we and millions like us should enter the marketplace with ever larger funds to outspend those who have been less favored?
Discrimination also occurs in the awarding of damages in civil litigation. As a lifelong student of judicial procedures, I know that plaintiffs and defendants have both suffered from awards based on price-indexing.
 
JOHN MAHER
Prior Lake, Minn., Nov. 18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITY ONE SYSTEMS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX INFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); COST OF LIVING (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (66%); 

PERSON: MAHER, JOHN JOHN P MAHER (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



177 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

MONDAY
 
The Semiconductor Industry Association releases its book-to-bill ratio for November, a closely watched indicator of technology strength.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
The Labor Department releases the Producer Price Index for November. In October it rose 0.4 percent.
 
THURSDAY
 
The Labor Department issues its weekly report on initial claims for unemployment insurance.
 
The Commerce Department reports on retail sales for November. In October they rose 0.2 percent.
 
The Commerce Department reports on business inventories for October. In September they rose 0.1 percent.
 
Retailers report on November sales.
 
FRIDAY
 
The University of Michigan releases its index of consumer sentiment for December.
 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta releases its survey of manufacturing in the Southeast.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS ELECTRONICS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (88%); INVENTORIES (88%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (88%); RETAIL SALES (86%); RETAILERS (86%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (85%); BONDS (85%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (84%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



178 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: The World;
From Paris With Love: Raspberries

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
FRANCE'S closest friend through the years has probably been the United States, the ally the French most love to hate. President Jacques Chirac considers himself an Americanophile, but in France this term is relative. Like de Gaulle, Mr. Chirac has been poking the United States in the eye lately, making trouble for plans to reorganize the NATO alliance, among other things.
Why? When everything is going as badly as it has been lately for Mr. Chirac and his Prime Minister, Alain Juppe, the overbearing Americans are a handy diversionary target. The two French leaders are burdened with grave problems, ranging from the possible resurgence of Algerian-related terrorism to a stubborn unemployment rate -- 12.6 percent -- and their popularity ratings are at record lows. 
 Blaming German monetary conservatism is tempting but risky; the French simply can't afford to alienate the Germans. But the big, clumsy, affable Americans are used to tongue-lashings from the French, and so have become their favorite target.
"Treat your friends the way you would if they were going to become your enemies one day," the French statesman Cardinal Jules Mazarin wrote to himself in the 17th century. More recently, de Gaulle railed against American domination and pulled the French military out of NATO's integrated command structure. Now it is Mr. Chirac's turn.
A year ago, Mr. Chirac said he wanted France back in NATO's command structure, but now he says that can't happen because of America's refusal to consider ceding an important NATO command in Naples to European control (never mind that the biggest military asset of the Naples command, by far, is the mighty American Sixth Fleet). The French demand, coming on the heels of their failed effort to stop the United States from dumping Boutros Boutros-Ghali as United Nations Secretary General, has snagged the reorganization plan, and the NATO foreign ministers will be unable to give it final approval when they meet in Brussels this week.
Is this inept? Not to the French. Railing at American big business, protesting when McDonald's tries to infiltrate chic Parisian neighborhoods, and challenging American domination make up a popular national pastime, and popularity is one thing Mr. Chirac and Mr. Juppe badly need these days.
The source of most of the unhappiness is popular frustration with the high unemployment. Yet Mr. Chirac and his Prime Minister insist that there is no choice but to keep reining in spending to qualify France under the stringent rules -- rules that Germany insists upon -- for the common European currency that is planned for the end of the decade.
How to make that grinch-that-stole-Christmas policy popular? Try this, from Mr. Chirac: "We need a currency that is strong and powerful that would allow us to resist aberrant fluctuations in the dollar."
French politicians of every ideology think the Clinton Administration has been deliberately keeping the dollar weak. This, in their view, is how American companies like Boeing can underbid European companies like Airbus Industrie on world markets.
Educated to admire state interventionism since Jean-Baptiste Colbert ran the country under Louis XIV, the French are convinced that governments, not markets, set the value of currencies, and that official American pronouncements have more of a role in weakening the dollar than America's huge trade deficits do. That American Treasury Secretaries and Federal Reserve bankers keep saying they're for a strong dollar just seems to the French like cynical manipulation.
In France nothing is ever what it seems on the surface, so the French, using good Cartesian logic, think it can't be anywhere else, either.
And blaming the United States for their troubles is becoming more popular with the French, only 35 percent of whom, according to a recent Sofres poll for Le Monde and the RTL television network, like America these days, while 46 percent actively dislike it. Eight years ago, 54 percent expressed varying degrees of sympathy with the United States, compared with 38 percent who felt antipathy.
Ask the French these days what they associate with the United States and 59 percent of them say "violence," 57 percent say "power," 45 percent say "social inequalities" and 39 percent say "racism."
 
 
 
The Indispensable American
 Perhaps it's because they see so many American movies that they feel this way. The French flock to see American films in preference to their own, which the Government subsidizes in order to keep French cinema from being completely suffocated by Hollywood; November's runaway film favorites in Paris were "Independence Day" and "Mission Impossible," paeans to the invincible and omnipresent American (or at least, in "Mission Impossible," to Tom Cruise).
Repressed envy may be another reason why the French like Americans less these days. They certainly don't like to hear American politicians and economic experts tell them that the lower American minimum wage and a labor market that leaves employers freer to hire and fire are the main reasons the United States has created 8 million new jobs in the past four years and France has created none.
(This year, French truck drivers tied highways in knots until they won higher pay and the right to retire at age 55 instead of 60.)
De Gaulle used to say that France could fulfill its destiny for greatness by creating a united Europe, an idea that for him and for his successors has always been associated with challenging the United States.
When the European common currency that is causing such trouble here comes, Mr. Chirac says, "Europe will be the most important economic power in the world, at least for some time, and of course that would worry certain people here and there."
He named no names. But we know who we are.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (68%); CURRENCIES (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); TERRORISM (55%); APPROVALS (50%); 

PERSON: CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); JUPPE, ALAIN (PRIME MIN); WHITNEY, CRAIG R JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



179 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Welfare All Over the Map

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT may get awfully icy there, but for shelter from the chills of indigence, few states top Vermont. Though hardly rich, Vermont spends proportionately more on its safety net than almost every other state. "In Vermont," said Jane Kitchel, commissioner of the state's unabashedly liberal Department of Social Welfare, "we have a tradition of social responsibility."
As for penny-pinching with welfare, few states beat Texas. "You want to talk to Texas about being generous?" asks Michael A. Jones, spokesman for the state's Department of Human Services. "We're 48th, on the bottom of the heap. Been there for many years, and there's no reason to think it will change." Texas, he says, believes that too much aid breeds dependence and more poverty. 
 Most states are beginning to talk more like Texas as they grapple with the new welfare universe. But even after new Federal laws go into effect, welfare benefits may still vary widely from state to state, if less so than they do now. Why? Because some states, following their own deeply ingrained values, tend to resist what they see as extremes in government policies. That is why there is such a huge range of current benefits: from $923 to $120 a month for a family of three.
 
 
 
The New Math
 After the nation decided that the welfare system had pretty much failed, Congress and President Clinton overhauled it and handed the states new rules in October. Most states will find that they have to be more frugal. Through the year 2002, the Federal Government will cut about $10 billion a year from what it would have spent under the old welfare system.
The climate has changed, too. Since Washington and the electorate now believe that six decades of welfare programs have entrapped as many of the poor as were freed, states are replacing leniency with tough love and insisting that people take any job quickly instead of training them for better jobs.
Some states, notably Massachusetts, Wisconsin and Michigan, have already constructed experimental systems, and it's too soon to tell how these will work. But the policies of nearly all states have been headed in the same direction: tougher.
 
 
 
Moving People to Jobs
 Some states offer incentives to induce people to work, like more child care and rides to a job. Some pay bonuses to adults for finishing high school. Massachusetts will give its clients work clothes. Kentucky says it will truck families out of the jobless hollows of Appalachia and move them to Louisville and Lexington, where jobs are.
States once denied welfare to families who had cars worth more than $1,000. But to make sure they get to work in something that runs, some states have raised the limit and others, including Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine and Missouri, have eliminated it.
But while offering more incentives to work, states are cutting cash benefits. George E. Pataki, the Republican Governor of New York, has proposed the sharpest cuts -- 45 percent phased in over four years.
And states are leveling heavy penalties on recipients who flout the new rules. In most states, a parent with children over age 5 who rebuffs a job offer -- any offer a caseworker approves -- also loses a chunk of the welfare check. For the children of penalized parents, Congress has a last resort: an unlimited budget to put them in foster homes.
"In the past, one might have measured generosity by benefit levels," said Mark H. Greenberg, senior staff attorney for the Center for Law and Social Policy in Washington and a welfare policy adviser to many states. "States have been getting tougher, less by reducing benefits than by imposing penalties and time limits. A major trend has been to move to the point where all assistance is cut off for violation of programs' rules."
One of the newly tough states is Connecticut, the nation's richest in per capita income in 1995, but about average in the the share of per capita income that it allots the poor. Connecticut, like Alaska, Hawaii and New York, had been more liberal in welfare payments, in part because the cost of living there was higher than the national average. Heating costs, for example, mean that housing is usually more expensive in Northern states.
But the cost of living, never officially included in calculating welfare benefits, doesn't explain all the differences. Georgia's living costs are similar to Texas's, but its maximum check to a family of three is $92 more. And Montana, warding off the same cold as Wyoming, pays $65 more.
But even in expensive Connecticut, the tide is toward benefit cuts. Last July, said Claudette Beaulieu, public and government relations director for state's Department of Social Services, Republican Gov. John G. Rowland engineered a $38 reduction in a typical family's welfare check. He also added a family's housing subsidy into the calculation, which means a still smaller check.
Connecticut threw in a carrot: The three-member family can keep all the money it earns up to the poverty line of $12,980 without losing a dime of its welfare check. But it threw in a stick, too: Families lose their checks just 21 months after they get their first, sooner than any other state. The Governor wanted to make it 18 months, Ms. Beaulieu said, but he and the Legislature compromised.
States that have always paid less to welfare recipients, mostly in the Deep South, are likely to remain at low levels. And by having spent less over the years than better-off states, the poorer states will also collect less in the new matching Federal block grants for cash assistance.
 
 
 
What About Texas?
 Mississippi may rank as the most tightfisted state, but it is also the poorest, with $16,683 in per capita income last year, so it doesn't have much to offer its welfare recipients. "I'd be a little kinder to Mississippi than most welfare analysts are," said Wendell E. Primus, who resigned from a top position in the Department of Health of Health and Human Services last summer because of the harm he says the welfare law will do to children. "I'd look at Texas," he said.
With $21,206 in per capita income in 1995, Texas ranked 30th, just behind Vermont with $21,231. But its maximum welfare grant of $188 a month for a mother and two children is the lowest of all but three states. And over the years Texas has taken the sharpest ax to benefits. That $188 check actually represents a cut of 68 percent from 1970 to 1996 after inflation, the biggest of any state. New Jersey ranks second, with a cut of 65 percent, but it still pays the family $424.
Texas is also quicker than any state but Alabama to cut a family off welfare when a recipient finds work; the checks stop when the three-member family's earnings reach $402 a month, just 37 percent of the income it needs to clear the poverty line.
Mr. Primus wonders whether racism accounts for some of the big differences in benefit levels. Less than one-half of one percent of Vermont's population is black, compared with 36 percent of Mississippi's and 12 percent of Texas's. Proportionately, far more blacks and Hispanics are poor than whites are.
But Iris Lav, Mr. Primus's colleague at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, thinks race has little to do with the levels of benefits. She noted that before their recent assaults on welfare, New York and California -- states with large minority populations -- had paid a lot in benefits, and that monolithically white New Hampshire pays less than neighboring Vermont. Ms. Lav said the odd patchwork of welfare policies was due to disparate attitudes. "I would argue that states just have different cultures about supporting the poor," she said.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map shows each state's maximum welfare grant as a percent of its 1995 per capita income. (Source: House Ways and Means Committee)
 
Table: "The Tough-Love Index" list state by state welfare benefit statistics. (Source: House Ways and Means Committee; Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); VERMONT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FEDERAL AID (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LEGISLATION (67%); ENTRAPMENT (58%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



180 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Fighting International Crime;
The Striped-Pants Crowd Gets Gumshoes

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
NEW YORK CITY'S Police Commissioner, Howard Safir, stepped into a diplomatic mess last month when he went to the Dominican Republic with a plan to station a few of the city's police officers in Santo Domingo. The very idea stirred the fury of Dominican nationalism and fears of Yankee imperialism. The nation's new President, Leonel Fernandez Reyna, took to ridiculing it. And the modest plan to try to staunch the flow of drugs and fugitives between the island nation and Upper Manhattan appeared to wither in a diplomatic tempest.
The row, however, obscured an increasingly fundamental fact of American life and law enforcement: 
 Like almost everything else in the global village, the fight against crime is increasingly international. And that has raised new concerns not only for the United States' law enforcement officials -- from the Federal Bureau of Investigation to the Central Intelligence Agency -- but also for its diplomats.
No longer simply an overseas matter for the long arm of American justice, international crime is increasingly seen as a threat to national security itself, requiring the energy and resources of virtually every agency of the Government.
International crime is not new, but the end of the cold war and the subsequent opening of societies have led to a vast increase in crimes that transcend borders. The growing freedom of travel and the explosion in technology -- computers, cellular phones, beepers, faxes -- have made criminals more nimble and brazen.
And the nature of their crimes has changed. They are no longer limited to drugs, terrorism and the occasional flight from justice. Increasingly there's money laundering, kidnapping, smuggling, credit card scams, even auto theft.
In addition, the United States seems far more willing to confront international crime -- not quite the same attitude as in the days when a drug smuggler could be useful in operations against the Communists.
In other words, the sudden lack of a sense of mortal peril leaves America free to focus its high dudgeon on organized crime cells in Russia -- cells that got their start in the black markets of the Soviet Union and have since spawned complex criminal enterprises of fraud and extortion, often reaching into the United States. Or to focus on groups in Latin America and Nigeria that once trafficked mostly in drugs and now also commit white-collar crimes involving high finance.
For the new foreign policy team announced by President Clinton last week -- Madeleine K. Albright as Secretary of State, William S. Cohen as Secretary of Defense, Anthony Lake as Director of Central Intelligence and Samuel R. Berger as national security adviser -- international crime is very likely to become an issue with a priority right alongside nuclear proliferation or ethnic conflict. The problems of crime and nuclear proliferation could well merge, for that matter, if Russian gangsters start selling nuclear material.
International crime is "one of the most threatening aspects at the end of the century," said Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, the National Drug Policy Director.
The threat is particularly acute for many emerging democracies, and American foreign policy makers find this alarming. These nations lack the laws or judicial systems to cope with the problem, and police officers are often ill-trained, ill-equipped and corrupted.
"The threat to countries now is less from the right or the left, but from international crime," said Robert S. Gelbard, Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs. "And it's more insidious, more subversive in many ways because criminal groups are undermining democratic states."
Not just elections, either. Business, too. This Administration has portrayed international markets as the key to the future not only of America's economy, but of world peace as well. In this view, if Western investors are scared off by a gangster environment in some struggling new democracy, the whole world loses.
As a result, President Clinton has made the fight against international crime a larger part of his foreign policy, highlighting it during his speech at the 50th anniversary of the United Nations last year.
Three years ago the State Department's Bureau of International Narcotics became the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs -- more than just a name change. At a time when the department's other divisions have strained under dwindling resources, the expanded bureau's have doubled in two years, to $213 million.
The Central Intelligence Agency, in part seeking justifications for its existence after the fall of the Soviet bloc, has put new effort into gathering intelligence about criminal organizations. The F.B.I. opened an academy in Budapest last year to train officers from Eastern Europe and Russia, and the State Department hopes to see others open in Latin American and Southeast Asia.
The F.B.I. has also proposed expanding the number of agents stationed at embassies around the world -- to 195 in 46 countries, from 124 in 27 countries now.
Of course, the growing desire of American law enforcement to extend its reach has raised delicate diplomatic issues, since few things touch a nation's sovereignty as closely as matters of law enforcement. That was the case with Mr. Safir's foray into the Dominican Republican, where the American military intervention in 1965 remains in the national consciousness.
 
 
 
Resistance
 Other nations have been resistant too, but with awareness of the crime problem growing, many have become less hostile. The State Department has also started helping countries like South Africa and Mexico to enforce and even draft laws to fight crimes like money laundering and financial fraud. In addition, the Administration plans to tighten extradition treaties and expand laws that give Federal agencies jurisdiction in crimes against Americans overseas, like the murder of an American businessman in Moscow last month.
The increased efforts have also created inevitable tensions between the United States' law enforcement agencies and its foreign service. The F.B.I., for example, is prohibited from disclosing wiretaps of foreign government officials, but State Department officials insist that the existence of any such wiretap is just the sort of thing its ambassadors must know about.
On the other hand, there is a growing realization that this kind of tension is destructive. "You can't have the F.B.I. saying, 'Forget the striped-pants stuff,' and going in, guns blazing," said one official. So the various agencies appear to be trying to work through the tensions, setting up rules for how to share information.
It is the kind of thing bickering agencies do when they start to take a threat seriously.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vyacheslav K. Ivankov, a Russian emigre convicted last year of extortion, in custody in New York in 1995. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); POLICE FORCES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (87%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); COLD WAR (75%); EXTORTION (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); VEHICLE THEFT (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (66%); TERRORISM (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); SALES & SELLING (63%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



181 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Crisis? What Crisis?;
For Some, It's Still a Wonderful Life

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
NEARLY four years ago, the public was mad as hell at the dizzying costs of the savings and loan crisis. And Federal District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer seemed to capture the public mood when she doubled the suggested Federal sentence and ordered Charles H. Keating Jr. to prison for 12 1/2 years for defrauding and destroying the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association, a $3.4 billion disaster. She justified her popular decision by calling Mr. Keating's crimes "staggering."
William P. Barr, the United States Attorney General at the time, chimed in: "Mr. Keating as much as any man has come to symbolize the excesses that led to the collapse of the thrift industry." 
 But this neat moral drama took a different turn last week. In a conspicuously terse decision, Judge Pfaelzer on Monday overturned the criminal conviction of the beaming arch-villain of the savings and loan crisis. And that came just months after Mr. Keating, 73, had his state criminal conviction thrown out, on the grounds that the judge had instructed the jury improperly.
What happened to our understanding that the mess was caused by a bunch of devious swindlers? And what happened to the anger over the $132 billion that the crisis cost taxpayers?
The most remarkable aspect of this coda to the savings and loan morality tale was that when Mr. Keating strolled to freedom, few people seemed to care, and those that did believed that the real culprit was not simple fraud but misguided Government policies.
And in some ways, many experts argue, that is good news: The biggest financial debacle in American history was painful, it swelled the Federal budget deficit, it made a lot of people rich at taxpayer expense, but ultimately it had a modest impact on the financial markets and now, just a few years later, it seems like distant history. We've moved on.
Which is not say there were not egregious crimes and losers as well as winners. The thrift industry collapsed in large measure because it was outmoded. Congress had designed it after World War II to focus on taking deposits and providing home mortgages to bring the dream of home ownership to more Americans.
But because the thrifts were singularly reliant on mortgages they were particularly vulnerable to being whipsawed by sharp jumps in interest rates, as happened in the late 1970's. Congress responded by allowing the thrifts to plunge into a variety of new businesses in which they had little experience. The coming disaster was turbocharged when the Government eased up on overseeing the thrifts.
Crooks found the thrifts easy pickings. And the savings and loans, unprepared for their new business, threw away tens of billions of dollars in ill-considered investments. When the real estate market crashed, nearly everyone involved lost their shirts.
Belatedly, Government bureaucrats were forced to seize and sell nearly $500 billion worth of real estate, mortgages, resort hotels and race horses -- something they were woefully unprepared to handle. There were clearly sweetheart deals on some of these sales. Billionaires like Ronald O. Perelman and the Bass Brothers acquired what were ultimately highly profitable thrifts at what some experts said were fire-sale prices.
In each of those deals, the taxpayer was the loser. Of the $160 billion that the overall clean-up will probably cost, the taxpayer paid $132 billion.
But there was a silver lining: the Government put an unprecedented amount of assets in private hands in just a few years. Even the real estate market, which some feared would be disrupted for years because of the number of apartment buildings, ranches, office towers and undeveloped lots unloaded, bounded back.
Today, the economic news is largely upbeat and taxpayers are worried about which mutual fund to buy, not how much Mr. Keating cost them.
"The good news is we've forgotten," said Bert Ely, a banking consultant. "It's behind us, even if you have some scoundrels walking free."
Mr. Keating, of course, will not forget the episode soon; he, and his son, an executive at his company, spent four and a half years in prison and he insists they are virtually penniless. A handful of his other executives pleaded guilty to felonies. The law firms and accounting firms that worked for Mr. Keating and scores of failed thrifts have paid out $2.4 billion.
But some good may have come of it all, at least in hindsight. There were 3,262 Federally chartered thrifts in 1985, just as the crisis was gaining steam, with $1.1 trillion in assets; as of the middle of this year, there were 1,436 such thrifts with assets totaling $771 billion.
Many experts say that this leaves room for commercial banks and other financial institutions to provide the same services, but much more efficiently.
Despite the efforts of Government officials, and the media, to seize on the chicanery of some savings and loan owners, records now show they accounted for a modest portion of the losses -- perhaps 5 percent.
Several years ago, a Federal commission concluded that the scale of the crisis resulted largely from "a systematic breakdown in the political system." And now even some former prosecutors agree that the villain is faceless. "Keating is an emblem of nothing other than the fact that the media made him a symbol of something he was never a symbol of," said Ira H. Raphaelson, a former Justice Department special counsel.
So what have we learned? Mr. Keating is free and bitter, and Government regulators say they are wiser. And the white elephant that Mr. Keating built near Phoenix for $300 million, the Phoenician, one of the greatest symbols of excess, is now owned by Sheraton and is one of the hottest resorts in the country. Its restaurants are said to be selling quite a lot of Hardy's Perfection cognac, a treat that goes for $450 a snifter in these post-excess times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles H. Keating Jr., smiling and free. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN (IRVINE, CALIF)

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN (IRVINE, CALIF)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING SAVINGS & LOANS (94%); BANK FAILURES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUDGES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SENTENCING (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HISTORY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); HOUSING MARKET (67%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (63%); RESORTS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; KEATING, CHARLES H JR CHARLES H KEATING JR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



182 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Bit Player;
hat Has the Computer Done for Us Lately?

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
AT the end of the 19th century, railroads and electric motors were expected to transform America, making a young industrial economy far more productive than any seen before. And they did. At the end of the 20th century, computers were supposed to perform the same miracle.
They haven't. 
 Computers do wonderful things. But in purely economic terms, their contribution has been less than a transforming force: they have failed to bring back the strong growth that characterized so many decades of the American Century. By that standard, they have been a disappointment.
"It is a pipe dream to think that computers will lead us back to a promised land," said Alan Krueger, a Princeton University economist.
The issue is productivity. Those who look to computers for economic miracles, and there are many, insist that measuring their contribution only in dollars misses the less tangible improvement in quality that computers have made possible. But quality is often in the eyes of the beholders rather than in their wallets.
Through decades of invention and change, productivity has been measured as the amount of "output," in dollars, that comes from an hour of labor. A worker who makes 100 pencils in an hour, each valued at 50 cents, produces $50 of output. And the more output from each of the nation's workers, the greater the national wealth.
Or, put more broadly, productivity is the amount of output in dollars that comes from various "inputs," not only a worker's labor, but the tools he or she uses to carry out that labor: a machine or a computer or a wrench or an air conditioner that makes work more comfortable in summer. People work faster or concentrate better, and that shows up quickly in tangible output.
By this definition, the output resulting from the computer revolution of the last 25 years has been disappointing. Computers have, of course, contributed to productivity and economic growth. But that contribution has failed to register in Government statistics as the kind of robust catalyst that made the 1950's and 1960's such prosperous years.
If computers have fallen short of expectations, that would help explain an apparent paradox that has puzzled economists and policy makers for two decades: how rapid technological progress and a booming stock market took place during a period of sluggish economic performance -- sluggish, that is, relative to earlier decades.
One possibility is that the statistics are wrong. A panel of economists came to this conclusion in a report to Congress last week, suggesting that growth has actually been quite robust but that this fact has been obscured by overstating the amount of output lost to inflation. This happened, the panel hinted, partly because the beneficial economic role of computers was not correctly taken into account. Some price increases that registered as inflation should really have registered as increases in output from computers.
 
 
 
Like Light Bulbs
 But there is another explanation. Perhaps the computer is one of those inventions, like the light bulb early in the century, that makes life much better without adding as much to tangible national wealth as appearances might suggest. That is because, while the light bulb allowed factories to operate night shifts and students to study more easily, the measurable result was less impressive than the great improvement in the quality of life that the electric light bulb made possible.
Given the computer's ubiquity and convenience, should the calculation of productivity and wealth be changed to give more dollar value to the conveniences the computer has wrought?
That kind of recalculation has not been done over generations of technological change, largely because convenience is too hard to quantify and translate into dollars. Too often, convenience increases consumption more than production. With computers, "most of the recent use has been on the consumption side," said Zvi Griliches, a Harvard economist. "The time you waste surfing the Internet is not an output."
Others take a broader view. Children using home computers for schoolwork -- gathering data from the Internet, for example -- become better students, they say. In time, that will translate into rising workplace skills and greater measurable output. But it hasn't yet, and standard practice dictates that the nation wait until it shows up in the numbers before proclaiming the computer's great contribution to productivity.
"People have high expectations of this happening overnight," said Nathan Rosenberg, an economic historian at Stanford University. "Computers are a major innovation, but absorbing so great an innovation involves many changes in work practices and behavior."
 
 
 
Useless Power
 Right now, much of a personal computer's power goes untapped, or is employed in low-output tasks like sending and sorting through junk E-mail, compiling electronic Rolodexes and playing solitaire in the office. Harnessing a computer's spectacular ability to deliver and manipulate information is not easy. Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs, offers a hypothetical illustration:
A consultant who charged $50 an hour 10 years ago to forecast trends in the economy now has a powerful desktop computer at his fingertips, feeding him information that in theory should make his forecasts more accurate. But he still charges clients $50 an hour because the forecasts, despite the computer, are not more accurate. Perhaps the consultant might never get that good at forecasting, even with a computer, or perhaps he will become so adept at extracting data from its depths that his forecasts will begin to hit the bull's eye. And that accuracy would allow him to raise his hourly fee, or "output," to $70 an hour, a handsome improvement in his productivity.
There are other problems. The automated teller machine, for example, illustrates how measurable productivity has failed to respond fully to computer investment. A half-dozen machines installed in a bank's lobby permit the bank to cut its teller staff by half. That is clearly measurable productivity. The bank's income, or output, from bank transactions remains unchanged, but the input in teller hours goes down. The idled tellers can shift to other income-producing activities, perhaps becoming loan officers.
To make the productivity rate continue rising, however, the bank must continue cutting teller hours as it installs more A.T.M.'s. Instead, the next machines go to a dozen outlying neighborhoods, so that customers can bank at odd hours, almost at their doorsteps, or verify the balances in their checking accounts, something they did not bother to do very often before A.T.M.'s. That is convenience. Most banks don't charge extra fees for this convenience. If they had no neighborhood A.T.M.'s, then customers would have found themselves forced to use the machines already installed in the lobbies of their banks.
"The question is, how much would you have been willing to pay in fees for the convenience of having that neighborhood A.T.M. if the banks refused to furnish them otherwise?" said Erich Brynjolfsson, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Business. "That would then enter into measurable output."
Through a survey, Mr. Brynjolfsson tried to calculate what additional amounts Americans would pay for hundreds of conveniences that computers make possible. He came up with a total of $70 billion in additional output. That would add only one-tenth of one percent to the national wealth, which is the value of all the goods and services produced in the United States in a year -- hardly enough to get economic growth back to the rates (at least 3 percent a year) that were characteristic of the 1950's and 1960's.
 
 
 
A Little Help
 Still, computers and software in all their various forms make an important contribution. The national wealth -- also known as the gross domestic product -- has risen at an annual rate of less than 2.5 percent, on average, in recent years. That includes a contribution of roughly four-tenths of a percentage point from computers and their trappings, according to the calculations of two Federal Reserve economists, Stephen D. Oliner and Daniel E. Sichel. Manufacturing and the telecommunications industry have benefited especially from computerization.
But why haven't computers lifted the overall economy the rest of the way back to 3 percent growth? One reason is that they represent only 2 percent of the nation's capital stock, which is all the existing machinery, equipment, factories and buildings that business uses to produce goods and services.
By comparison, railroads in their heyday represented more than 12 percent. And they became the tool for opening up frontier lands to agriculture, and to new cities and industries. At the same time, electric motors, replacing steam, gave the nation a much more flexible and efficient source of power, and made possible the assembly line. The output resulting from railroads and electric motors became enormous.
Perhaps there is some set of conditions, having no direct connection to computers, that must develop before American productivity and economic growth can return to the old levels -- conditions like greater demand for the potential output from computers, or hegemony again in the global economy.
Or perhaps, as some economists say, we should lower our expectations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A technological miracle was the Ferranti Pegasus computer, designed in Britain in the 1950's for operation from the office desktop. The economy still awaits its economic miracle. (Corbis-Bettmann) (pg. 1); The American original, the vacuum-tubed Eniac. (United Press International/Corbis-Bettmann) (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); STATISTICS (61%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



183 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs Big Mac I

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN; Maureen Dowd is on vacation.

DATELINE: OAK BROOK, Ill.

 BODY:
So I've had this thesis for a long time and came here to Hamburger University at McDonald's headquarters to finally test it out. The thesis is this: No two countries that both have a McDonald's have ever fought a war against each other.
The McDonald's folks confirmed it for me. I feared the exception would be the Falklands war, but Argentina didn't get its first McDonald's until 1986, four years after that war with Britain. Civil wars don't count: McDonald's in Moscow delivered burgers to both sides in the fight between pro-and anti-Yeltsin forces in 1993. 
 Since Israel now has a kosher McDonald's, since Saudi Arabia's McDonald's closes five times a day for Muslim prayer, since Egypt has 18 McDonald's and Jordan is getting its first, the chances of a war between them are minimal. But watch out for that Syrian front. There are no Big Macs served in Damascus. India-Pakistan? I'm still worried. India, where 40 percent of the population is vegetarian, just opened the first beefless McDonald's (vegetable nuggets!), but Pakistan is still a Mac-free zone.
Obviously, I say all this tongue in cheek. But there was enough of a correlation for me to ask James Cantalupo, president of McDonald's International and its de facto Secretary of State, what might be behind this Golden Arches Theory of Conflict Prevention -- which stipulates that when a country reaches a certain level of economic development, when it has a middle class big enough to support a McDonald's, it becomes a McDonald's country, and people in McDonald's countries don't like to fight wars; they like to wait in line for burgers. Or as Mr. Cantalupo puts it: "We focus our development on the more well-developed economies -- those that are growing and those that are large -- and the risks involved in being adventuresome [for those growing economies] are probably getting too great."
In the 1950's and 60's developing countries thought that having an aluminum factory and a U.N. seat was what made them real countries, but today many countries think they will have arrived only if they have their own McDonald's and Windows 95 in their own language. This year McDonald's went into its 100th country and for the first time it earned more revenue from McDonald's overseas than from McDonald's America.
Said Mr. Cantalupo: "I feel these countries want McDonald's as a symbol of something -- an economic maturity and that they are open to foreign investments. I don't think there is a country out there we haven't gotten inquiries from. I have a parade of ambassadors and trade representatives in here regularly to tell us about their country and why McDonald's would be good for the country."
The question raised by the McDonald's example is whether there is a tip-over point at which a country, by integrating with the global economy, opening itself up to foreign investment and empowering its consumers, permanently restricts its capacity for troublemaking and promotes gradual democratization and widening peace. Francis Fukuyama, author of the classic work "The End of History," argued to me that a country's getting its own McDonald's was probably not a good indicator of that tip-over point, because the level of per capita income needed in a country to host a McDonald's is too low. "I would not be surprised if in the next 10 years several of these McDonald's countries go to war with each other," he said.
Yes, there will be conflicts, but more inside countries than between them. No question, the spread of McDonald's (a new one opens every three hours) is part of this worldwide phenomenon of countries integrating with the global economy and submitting to its rules, but this is not a smooth linear process. It produces a backlash inside countries from those who do not benefit from this globalization, who feel that their traditional culture will be steamrolled by it and who fear that they won't eat the Big Mac, the Big Mac will eat them.
How well governments and global companies manage these frustrations will be the real determinant of whether economic development will lead to wider democratization and wider peace. Here again McDonald's is an intriguing pioneer. When the riots broke out in Los Angeles one of the few commercial buildings not trashed was McDonald's. Wednesday's column will explore why.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP MCDONALD'S CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; WAR AND REVOLUTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY FAST FOOD (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CIVIL WAR (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TRENDS (68%); MEAT FREE DIETS (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (59%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



184 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Taking Cautious Approach in Talks on Global Warming

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is taking a cautious approach toward negotiations this coming week on new measures to head off global warming due to air pollution.
In a statement to be delivered to other delegates at a United Nations meeting starting Monday in Geneva, American officials will argue that it would be unrealistic to set new deadlines for reducing emissions of so-called greenhouse gases before the year 2010. And it is too early in the negotiations to specify how big any such reductions should be, they said. 
 The United States, like other industrial countries, is already experiencing difficulties reducing its own emissions of carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels. It will be very complicated persuading 153 nations to agree on how strict any new controls should be and on how they should be put into force.
The countries that signed the original climate-change treaty at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janiero in 1992 have since concluded that it ought to be strengthened. The original treaty called for industrial nations, as a first step, to aim at reducing their greenhouse gas emissions by the year 2000 to the levels of 1990. But that goal was not binding, and few nations have met it.
So the treaty partners are now trying to agree on expanded measures to control the growth of greenhouse gas emissions well beyond the turn of the century. The talks are aimed at reaching agreement at a meeting late next year in Japan.
The Administration has been arguing that the new agreement should impose binding, medium-term targets for reducing emissions to levels that are realistic and achievable, while requiring developing countries, not just industrial nations, to control their greenhouse gases.
At a briefing for reporters, a State Department negotiator said that in the Geneva meetings the United States would oppose suggestions by some countries that the next set of targets take effect as early as 2005. She added that the United States also opposes requiring all nations to adopt common policies, like uniform taxes on energy, and instead wants to provide flexibility to each nation.
The United States is urging the United Nation negotiating committee in Geneva to develop a plan that would allow some countries to pay others to make reductions on their behalf, since controlling pollution is cheaper in some places than in others and since from the planet's point of view it makes no difference where carbon dioxide comes from.
Environmentalists said they are disappointed with the Administration's approach.
"The proposal would delay the beginning of any legal requirements to reduce greenhouse pollution until at least 2010, and even then emissions could be 'borrowed' from the period after 2020," the Natural Resources Defense Council said in a statement.
"Rather than detailing commitments to protect our children, the staff paper proposes literally borrowing pollution allowances from our children and thereby putting the burden on them," said Dan Lashof of the environmental group.
But an industry coalition opposed to a binding treaty said it was pleased that the Administration "highlighted the growing attention to the economic costs" of measures to fight global warming.
"It is encouraging that the Administration apparently shares our concerns regarding impacts on the U.S. economy from poorly developed or premature policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions," John Shlaes, executive director of the Global Climate Coalition, said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (93%); JAPAN (79%); EARTH (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



185 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Cites Welfare Gains And Defends Overhaul Plan

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7

 BODY:
After four months of criticism by liberal Democrats, President Clinton today defended his decision to sign a bill overhauling welfare programs and boasted that welfare rolls had dropped by 15 percent since he took office.
In his weekly radio address, Mr. Clinton reported that the number of Americans on welfare had decreased to 12 million in September, down 2.1 million since January 1993. 
 "That is the biggest drop in the welfare rolls in history," Mr. Clinton said. He took some of the credit, saying, "We were determined to move millions from welfare to work, and our strategy has worked."
The new welfare law reverses six decades of social welfare policy and touches the lives of tens of millions of people. It ends the Federal guarantee of cash assistance for the nation's poorest children and gives states vast new authority to run their own welfare and work programs with lump sums of Federal money.
Mr. Clinton announced today that the Federal Government was allowing California, Nebraska, South Dakota and Alabama to move ahead with plans to carry out the new law. California has the nation's biggest cash welfare program, with 2.5 million recipients, accounting for one-fifth of the national total.
Defending his decision to sign the welfare bill, Mr. Clinton said that he was honoring a "moral obligation" to help poor people help themselves. In a sentence that could have been written by Republicans, Mr. Clinton said, "The door has now been opened to a new era of freedom and independence." And he said that "we can make the permanent underclass a thing of the past" if employers will hire welfare recipients and former recipients.
Mr. Clinton said nothing about a subject being debated within his Administration: how to soften the impact of the new welfare law on poor people and legal immigrants. Republicans in Congress have different ideas. They are drafting proposals to make the law more stringent and to save more money.
Data from the Department of Health and Human Services show that since January 1993, the number of welfare recipients has fallen in 45 states and increased in 4, with virtually no change in 1 state, Idaho. The biggest declines were in Wisconsin (41 percent), Indiana (38 percent) and Oregon (37 percent). Six other states, including Massachusetts and Mississippi, experienced reductions of 30 percent or more. The increases occurred in Alaska, California, Hawaii and New Mexico.
In New York State, the number of people receiving benefits under the main cash welfare program, Aid to Families With Dependent Children, has declined 4 percent, to 1.1 million. The number of welfare recipients declined by 1 percent in Connecticut, to 158,270, and by 23 percent in New Jersey, to 269,600.
Some states with big reductions in welfare rolls say they will reap financial windfalls under the new law because Federal money is distributed to states according to the number of people on the rolls several years ago. The block grants are not reduced when the number of recipients declines.
The lower number of welfare recipients will also make it easier for states to comply with the work requirements of the new law. Those requirements will be somewhat reduced for states that have cut their welfare rolls since 1995.
Nationally, the welfare rolls reached a peak of 14.4 million in March 1994 and were still at 13.9 million in January 1995. Most of the decline has occurred in the last two years, as Republicans in Congress seized on President Clinton's invitation to "end welfare as we know it."
At the same time, a strong economy has created many job opportunities. Governors and state legislators of both parties have tightened eligibility criteria, imposed work requirements on welfare recipients and set time limits on welfare.
"Even before I signed the welfare reform bill," Mr. Clinton said today, "we were working with states to test reform strategies, giving 43 states waivers from Federal rules to experiment with reforms that required work, imposed time limits and demanded personal responsibility."
In the Republican version of the weekly radio address, Senator Daniel R. Coats of Indiana urged Mr. Clinton to go beyond general calls for bipartisanship and to "get more specific."
"Vague campaign promises must become concrete proposals," Mr. Coats said. "Good intentions must become good laws. This is the real test of bipartisanship."
Mr. Coats urged Mr. Clinton to support his proposal for a $500 charity tax credit, which he said "would give every American taxpayer the ability to take $500 of what you owe in taxes each year and give it directly to a poverty-fighting charity in your own community."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



186 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Seeking a Leader and a Role For Economic Policy Council

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7

 BODY:
With his foreign policy team in place, President Clinton is now confronting a long-bubbling and central question in the White House: the future of the National Economic Council, Mr. Clinton's biggest innovation in Washington policy making, created to inject economic thinking into every major domestic and foreign policy issue.
In the last four years, the council went through two distinct incarnations and several rocky periods, but it gradually established itself as the neutral ground on which the State Department, trade negotiators and a variety of other Cabinet officials hashed out differences on issues as diverse as policy on China and tax-cut proposals. 
 Now, aides say, what began as a narrow debate over the council's future leadership -- specifically whether it should be headed by a single, high-profile chairman or by a team of lesser-known officials who now serve as deputies -- has blossomed into a broader argument over how well Mr. Clinton's innovation worked in reorienting Washington priorities in his first term, and how much clout it should have in his second.
"There's a natural temptation in Washington to focus on the traditional Cabinet appointments, but the President's hardest decisions center on the N.E.C.," one of Mr. Clinton's closest advisers said on Friday. "And there are a lot of very different opinions about how large a role it should play in the formulation of policy."
For example, in 1993 and 1994, under the leadership of Robert E. Rubin, the council played the central role in coordinating the budget and dealing with Congress; that role was largely taken over by Leon E. Panetta when he became White House chief of staff. The council seems likely to be dominated in the coming year by the new chief of staff, Erskine B. Bowles; the new head of the Office of Management and Budget, Franklin Raines, and Mr. Rubin, who took much of his considerable influence on economic policy making with him when he was appointed Treasury Secretary two years ago.
Throughout the first term, the N.E.C. was also a central force in the making of economic foreign policy, particularly in Asia, and it is credited with moving American economic interests to the top of the country's strategic agenda around the world.
But some Administration officials, particularly in the State Department, complain that the result was a skewing of foreign policy interests away from human rights and other traditional issues. It is unclear how that will unfold under the leadership of the Secretary of State-designate, Madeleine K. Albright, who has little experience in the merging of economic and foreign policy issues.
"This is still a new institution, and it's important to the effectiveness of economic decision-making that its role be strengthened in the next few years," said its current chairwoman, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, who took the post in 1995, after Mr. Rubin was appointed Treasury Secretary. The debate over the future of the council was sparked by Ms. Tyson's decision to return to California, where she was an economist at the University of California at Berkeley before joining the Clinton Administration, to rejoin her husband and young son.
Two of the leading candidates to succeed her, both with considerable clout in Washington, dropped out of the running in recent days: Samuel R. Berger, who has extensive experience in trade and Asian affairs, was appointed on Thursday to head the National Security Council, and Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, has indicated lately that he wants to remain in his current job. Both were considered influential enough to bring competing Cabinet officers to the council's table, and to deal as near-equals with the National Security Council, which was established decades ago and has a staff of 160, compared to about two dozen at the relatively new National Economic Council.
With no obvious potential chairman, Mr. Clinton was said last week to be considering appointing Ms. Tyson's two deputies as co-chairmen: Gene Sperling, one of the chief domestic economic advisers, and Daniel Tarullo, an influential behind-the-scenes foreign policy adviser who has organized the Administration's participation in economic summit meetings and worked extensively on a variety of other issues, particularly America's relations with major European nations.
Administration officials say the President particularly wants to reward Mr. Sperling, known as "Gene the Machine" in the White House, for his workaholic habits and his relentless role in formulating and promoting a variety of domestic economic policies that became central pillars of the re-election campaign. But Mr. Sperling is in his mid-30's, and there are fears in the Administration, one White House official said, that the appointment of co-chairmen "could look like you have downgraded an important institution, just as it is establishing its roots."
One alternative, which the White House considered and reportedly dismissed, would be to designate Mr. Rubin as the official chairman of the council in addition to his role at the Treasury -- but leave the council's day-to-day operations to Mr. Sperling and Mr. Tarullo. While that would put the most influential economic adviser to the President at the head of the table, Mr. Clinton's aides concluded that it would divert Mr. Rubin's attention from a huge range of issues facing the Treasury -- including the management of the dollar, budget negotiations and keeping tabs on financial instability in Russia and Mexico -- and that it would be impossible for one Cabinet member to also serve as the "honest broker" who sorts out differences among other Cabinet members.
"What everyone's agreed with is that the council has to continue at a level where it is one of the most important institutions in Washington," Mickey Kantor, the Commerce Secretary, said last week. He has sometimes found himself involved in major arguments within the council over how hard to press Japan and China. With his extensive experience as the Administration's chief trade negotiator and, for the last nine months, its chief promoter of American business abroad, Mr. Kantor would be a natural candidate to lead the council, but he has said that he is leaving public service after Mr. Clinton's inauguration next month, and plans to return to the private sector.
Some officials argue that even if he was willing to do the job, Mr. Kantor's fiery personality would not lend itself to the consensus-building role that the council plays. Others, though, say he would be a strong counterweight to Ms. Albright, because he has been a fierce advocate of changing the direction of foreign policy to adjust to a world in which the main competition among major powers is economic.
I.M. Destler, a leading trade expert and author of a recent study assessing the National Economic Council's first four years, said this week that Mr. Clinton's decision about the council's leadership "will be crucial to the question of how well-established the council becomes as the central instrument of economic policy making." His study concluded that the council got off to a strong start under Mr. Rubin, at a time that the Administration was awash in new policy proposals and was developing a strategy to vastly reduce the Federal deficit.
But the transition to Ms. Tyson's leadership was "botched," Prof. Destler concluded, and the institution's power was diminished because Mr. Panetta dominated budget talks with the Republican majority in Congress and Ms. Tyson did not insist on bringing a number of important issues to the council's table, where they could be discussed by the Secretary of State, the Trade Representative, the Treasury Secretary and others.
In the last year however, the council has revived, in part because it became a focal point for dealing with China and other major powers with which the United States has trade problems. Mr. Panetta was less interested in these issues.
In addition, Ms. Tyson helped develop a number of the economic themes that dominated the campaign, including Mr. Clinton's proposals for tax credits for education. "By summer 1996, the N.E.C. was back on the map," Prof. Destler concluded, in part because it was meshing better with the National Security Council, chiefly through Mr. Berger, who served as the deputy National Security Adviser until his promotion last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TAX LAW (70%); TAX RELIEF (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); ERSKINE BOWLES (58%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); FRANK RAINES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



187 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: PANEL IN DISCORD ON THE FINANCING OF SOCIAL SECURITY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7

 BODY:
After more than two years of work, a Federal advisory panel studying Social Security has been unable to agree on how to solve the program's long-term financial problems and pay for the retirement of the baby boom generation.
The panel is divided into three factions, with 6 of the 13 members opposed to the most important change recommended by the others. That recommendation would replace part of Social Security with compulsory private savings that would be invested in stocks and bonds. 
 The disagreements foreshadow a major battle over proposals to reduce the Federal guarantee of retirement benefits and supplement it with a new system of compulsory individual savings accounts.
The six opponents include three union representatives and Robert M. Ball, a former Social Security Commissioner who has worked closely with Democrats in Congress for more than two decades.
Members of Mr. Ball's group said that they were distressed at the surge of interest in "privatizing" part of Social Security and that they had been chagrined to see their names associated with such proposals, which they regard as a betrayal of the "community solidarity" embodied in the program.
The panel, the Advisory Council on Social Security, was appointed in June 1994 by Dr. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services. The 13 members of the panel are divided into groups of 6, 5 and 2. Each faction has its own plan for guaranteeing the solvency of Social Security over the next 75 years.
Several members said they had hoped that the panel would move toward a consensus that would emphasize the advantages of investing Social Security money in the stock market.
Although the advisory council has been unable to agree on major changes in Social Security or its investment policies, a majority of members will endorse smaller steps that could extend the life of the trust fund to 2050 or beyond, a substantial achievement.
In an interview, Edward M. Gramlich, the chairman of the panel said: "These short-term fixes are nice, and we can agree on them. But it's important for us to do something more to raise national savings for retirement and to do it fairly soon."
Instead, the members' disagreements have become starker and sharper in recent months, said Mr. Gramlich, a professor of economics at the University of Michigan.
A confidential draft of the final report, to be issued this month, says, "The council has not only been unable to agree on a plan, we have been unable to agree on the proper criteria to use in assessing the plans."
In June, the Clinton Administration said the money in the Social Security trust fund would increase for two decades and then start to decline. The Administration said that the trust fund would be depleted in 2029, just as the last of the baby boomers reached 65, and that revenues would then cover only three-fourths of benefit costs.
In the draft of the final report, Mr. Ball's faction says, "Social Security is not facing a crisis, but does face a long-term deficit, beginning about 30 years from now."
Members of the council agree that workers could get much higher rates of return if some of their retirement savings were invested in stocks rather than Government securities, the only investment allowed for the Social Security trust fund under current law. The average annual return, adjusted for inflation, is estimated at 7 percent for stocks and 2.3 percent for long-term Government bonds.
Five members of the council want to replace the Social Security program with a two-tier system of "personal security accounts." The Government would pay a flat benefit, about half the average benefit now paid to retirees. Forty percent of payroll taxes would be diverted to the accounts, and workers would decide how to invest the money.
Under that plan, retirement benefits would no longer be defined by law, with a standard formula, but would vary from worker to worker, depending on the success of each investment. People who made identical contributions could end up with radically different benefits.
Sylvester J. Schieber, a panel member who favors that approach, said it would allow people to "participate fully in this economic miracle that we call America."
But Mr. Ball's group spurned the proposal, saying it would substitute "an extraordinarily high degree of go-it-alone individualism" for the "community solidarity" of Social Security.
"We do not believe that the nation's basic retirement system should require everyone -- the knowledgeable and the inexperienced, the lucky and the unlucky, the rich and the poor -- to bear investment risk as isolated individuals," Mr. Ball's group said. "The investment risk could be kept manageable and affordable by investing as a group rather than as individuals, and the administrative costs are very low in comparison with buying stocks and mutual funds retail and managing millions of relatively small individual accounts."
The third faction, composed of Mr. Gramlich and another panel member, also wants to establish mandatory individual savings accounts. Under this proposal, the Government would require each worker to make contributions, starting in 1998. The accounts would be owned by workers but managed by the Government. The investment options, perhaps 5 to 10 mutual funds, would be much more limited than under Mr. Schieber's proposal.
Mr. Ball's group said both of those proposals were "inherently and fundamentally flawed."
Social Security, created in 1935, "is based on the premise that we're all in this together, with everyone sharing responsibility for the security of everyone else, present and future," Mr. Ball's faction said. Members of this group see personal savings as an important supplement to Social Security, but a poor substitute for any part of it.
The members of Mr. Ball's group are Gerald M. Shea, assistant to the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.; Gloria T. Johnson, director of social action at the International Union of Electronic Workers; George J. Kourpias, president of the International Association of Machinists; Thomas W. Jones, president of T.I.A.A.-C.R.E.F., the nation's largest private pension system, and Edith U. Fierst, a lawyer who specializes in women's pension rights.
Another panel member, Carolyn L. Weaver, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, said that it was "a great disappointment" that the council had not achieved more agreement. One reason, she said, is that Mr. Ball's group apparently "backed away from a clear and explicit recommendation that the Government begin investing directly in private equities" stocks.
Under current law, the Social Security trust fund is accumulating a surplus because payroll taxes exceed the amounts immediately needed to pay benefits. Members of Mr. Ball's group said the Government should consider investing some of the surplus in the stock market, to get higher returns. The idea, they said, is "worthy of serious consideration" but "requires careful study, public debate and, perhaps, even the convening of an expert commission to explore the pros and cons."
Under Mr. Ball's proposal, payroll tax revenues would still be pooled in the Social Security trust fund. The Government, acting through an independent board, could put some of the money in a portfolio of stocks chosen to match a broad gauge of market performance, like the Wilshire index of 5,000 stocks.
The Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, said he supported a similar approach, allowing some of the money in the Social Security trust fund to be invested in stocks, as well as Government securities.
The final report also offers these suggestions, each supported by a majority of council members:
*Newly hired state and local government workers should be required to contribute to Social Security. About 3.7 million such employees, representing one-fourth of all state and local workers, are not covered by the program.
*A retiree should pay Federal income taxes on Social Security benefits that exceed what the person paid into the program as a worker. The new revenue would be deposited in the Social Security trust fund.
*The annual cost-of-living adjustment in Social Security benefits should be reduced to reflect any corrections that might be made in the Consumer Price Index by the Labor Department. But Congress should not legislate changes in the cost-of-living adjustment because such action would set "a dangerous precedent" that could be used to cut benefits unfairly.
Under current law, a worker who retires at 65 is eligible for full benefits, and the eligibility age is scheduled to rise gradually to 67, over the period from 2000 to 2027. A majority on the council wants to accelerate the increase and then raise the age automatically to reflect increases in life expectancy.
But five members oppose such changes, saying they would hurt low-paid blue-collar workers who cannot easily extend their working lives.
Despite the increase in life expectancy, a growing proportion of workers are taking early retirement. Fifty-three percent of workers now take reduced benefits at the age of 62, compared with 36 percent in 1981.


GRAPHIC: The Advisory Council on Social Security, which was formed in 1994, will soon issue its final report, offering three sharply different models for the future of the program. Here is a summary of the competing plans.
 
CURRENT LAW
Chart: "AT ISSUE: Three Models for Social Security"
 OVERVIEW -- Pays benefits to retired and disabled workers and their families and to survivors of workers who die. Benefits are financed by specially earmarked taxes.
 MANDATORY SAVINGS ACCOUNTS -- None.
 TRUST FUND INVESTMENT POLICY -- Money in the Social Security trust fund can be invested only in Government securities, not in private stocks or bonds.
 INCOME FROM MANDATORY SAVINGS ACCOUNTS -- Not applicable.
 
PLAN 1: "MAINTAIN BENEFITS"
 OVERVIEW -- Maintains current benefit structure with modest changes in benefits and revenues, and perhaps a new investment policy for the Social Security trust fund.
 MANDATORY SAVINGS ACCOUNTS -- None.
 TRUST FUND INVESTMENT POLICY -- 40 percent of trust fund money might be invested in private market (after further Federal study). Investments would be passively managed by an independent board to follow some broad index of market performance.
 INCOME FROM MANDATORY SAVINGS ACCOUNTS -- Not applicable.
 
PLAN 2: PERSONAL SECURITY ACCOUNTS
 OVERVIEW -- Creates a two-tier system, consisting of a flat Federal benefit and a mandatory personal security account to be managed by individuals. Transition to new system would be financed with new Government borrowing, taxes or both.
 MANDATORY SAVINGS ACCOUNTS -- Forty percent of current payroll taxes are redirected into personal security accounts. Workers can invest the money as they want, in a wide range of financial instruments.
 TRUST FUND INVESTMENT POLICY -- No change from current law.
INCOME FROM MANDATORY SAVINGS ACCOUNTS -- Money in the account becomes available when worker becomes eligible for Social Security retirement benefits. Worker uses it as he or she chooses. At time of death, any money in the account goes into the worker's estate.
 
PLAN 3: INDIVIDUAL ACCOUNTS
 OVERVIEW -- Scales back benefits to fit within current payroll tax revenues. Adds a new mandatory individual savings plan, to be administered by the Government.
 MANDATORY SAVINGS ACCOUNTS -- Workers pay an additional 1.6 percent of earnings into individual accounts. Workers have a limited number of investment options, perhaps 5 to 10 mutual funds.
 TRUST FUND INVESTMENT POLICY -- No change from current law.
 INCOME FROM MANDATORY SAVINGS ACCOUNTS -- Individual account is automatically converted to annuities when worker retires.
 
Source: Advisory Council on Social Security; National Academy of Social Insurance. (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BONDS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



188 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2105 words

HEADLINE: More Downsized Workers Are Returning as Rentals

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
The call came while Linda Corbett was in her yard gardening. A supervisor at Pacific Bell, a man she knew, told her that his staff was overwhelmed with work. He wanted to know whether Ms. Corbett would consider returning to the company from which, just six months earlier, she had been "severed involuntarily," as she still puts it bitterly.
Ms. Corbett, who is 42, resisted at first. She had reacted to her ouster by plunging into suburban life. She became active in the Chamber of Commerce, took courses in how to start a small business, gave parties with her husband and tended her vegetables and flowers. But she finally gave in, returning last May to a sales job at the company that had employed her since high school. 
 Instead of going back as an employee, however, she returned as a contract worker, on the payroll of one of the temporary-help agencies that have sprung up around Pacific Bell, like pilot fish around a whale, renting workers to the giant even as it sheds employees.
That contract workers are widely used is well known. What is just coming to light is that as many as one-fifth of them, probably more than a million, are people like Ms. Corbett who have returned to their old companies, many after having been pushed off payrolls or lured off with lucrative buyouts. New surveys are beginning to document the trend, which appears to be another move toward a system in which companies and employees feel less obligated to each other.
"Many companies don't want to lose experienced people and they don't want to keep them on expensive career tracks," said Alan Krueger, a Princeton labor economist. "So they have come up with contract-worker status for ex-employees. And that is an important step that companies are taking toward rewriting the implicit contract that bound them to their workers."
As they grow in number, these former employees returning on contract become a subculture in the workplace. They are people with an employee's mindset spliced centaur-like to an outsider's role as a rented worker. That was clear in interviews with more than a dozen of them.
Not having careers to advance, some praise the liberation from enervating office politics, and from the stress of competing for raises and promotions. They talk of a greater flexibility to work only when they please. But their altered status cuts at their self-esteem. They are sometimes shunned by co-workers. They are often less effective than they had been. Many find themselves no longer going the extra mile to get a job done or acquire a new skill.
Some come to realize, as Ms. Corbett has, that what they have returned to are set tasks, rather than work that draws on their ingenuity and ambition. And company benefits like health insurance and pensions become only a memory for many.
Corporations view these workers as skilled reserves who can jump back in without losing time learning the routine. But productivity suffers when they find themselves less motivated in their new role.
The Labor Department recently produced the first major statistical evidence of people cycling back to their old employers as contract workers. Its report found that among five million contingent workers, 17 percent of a representative sample surveyed in 1995 said they had had a "previous different relationship" with the companies that now, in effect, rent them.
Seven million people who describe themselves as self-employed were not represented in the survey, and some may also be back at their old companies on contract.
Similarly, the American Management Association, in a survey of 720 companies that recently shed workers, found that 30 percent had brought back downsized employees, on contract or as rehired employees.
Temporary-help agencies offer additional evidence. Shelley Wallace, the president of the Wallace Law Registry, which rents lawyers to corporations that have made cuts in their legal departments, estimates that 10 percent of the lawyers rented out by her agency and others go to their former employers.
And William Ostler, the president of Training Delivery Service, the temporary-help agency supplying the largest number of contract workers to Pacific Bell, says former employees make up 80 percent of the 900 to 1,000 people that his agency supplies to the phone company on an average day.
Pacific Bell says it is using 4,200 temporary and contract workers in addition to 44,000 regular employees (down from 54,600 in 1991). Other companies also engage in the practice. The list includes Xerox, Hoffman-LaRoche, Delta Air Lines, Digital Equipment and Chevron, as well as smaller places like Bronson Methodist Hospital in Kalamazoo, Mich.
Seldom, however, will the companies or their workers discuss what they do in any detail. Pacific Bell is an exception. A class action brought by 1,600 former employees, a suit charging that Pacific Bell violated a job-guarantee agreement, has illuminated the process at that company. Some of those listed as plaintiffs, including Ms. Corbett, were willing, now that their names are public, to talk about their experiences.

The People
The High Cost Of 'Independence'
Linda Corbett speaks like a person whose spouse has thrown her out, unexpectedly, and has now invited her back -- on very different terms. She is bitter, and she finds the experience hard to put behind her.
"Restore my seniority, my vacation time and my pension," she said of the possibility that she return to a permanent job at the company, "and I'll consider it." On the other hand, the invitation back to the company that once rejected her has made her feel better about herself. "I feel I have value. Otherwise, they would simply drop my contract."
Ms. Corbett came back to a sales job in the phone company's Third Street office downtown, a job she had held until 1992. The insult of having been forced out has been somewhat offset by the welcome she received from former colleagues who quickly shifted work to her.
The $40 an hour she earns on the payroll of a temporary-help agency is $10 an hour more than her base salary as an employee, she calculates. That makes her feel even better. And exercising the new control she says she has over her life, she took four weeks off to tour Asia with her husband.
But Ms. Corbett has also been confronted by the fact that her old sales job, at a Pacific Bell office north of here, was not eliminated, as she was told it would be, but refilled, by an acquaintance. For this Ms. Corbett comes down hard, not on her replacement but on the company. She was, she reasons, the victim of "a numbers game" in which low-level managers were given downsizing quotas, regardless of workload.
Michael Rodriguez, Pacific Bell's vice president for human resources, conceded "there were jobs that we hoped would go away when those in them did, but some of the work did not go away as quickly as we would have liked."
Shelley McGuinness, who is 44, has had a rougher return to Pacific Bell. Like Ms. Corbett, she was in marketing, selling voice and data services. Like Ms. Corbett's job, hers was declared "surplus" last fall, and like Ms. Corbett, she was given the choice of a $70,000 buyout or 60 days to find another job within Pacific Bell. Failing in the latter, she took the former.
A temporary-help agency recruited her and in July Ms. McGuinness found herself back in the Third Street building, at $20 an hour -- two-thirds of her old pay -- doing part of her old job, but on another floor. One floor below, her former colleagues carry on, without a new hire in her old seat. But candidates are interviewing for the post. That rattles Ms. McGuinness, who had been told, she says, that the job would be eliminated as part of a reorganization.
Some of her ex-office mates are rattled, too. They limit their contacts with her to small talk, eyes often averted. "You think you are getting over this," Ms. McGuinness said, "and then you bump into someone in the elevator and you feel defensive and hurt, and all the old feelings come back. They don't talk to me much. It is as if they think they might catch what I have, if they really talked to me."
She fingers a paper ID badge that she pastes to her sweater, with a red-marker "C" on it, for contract worker. "Some days it feels like a scarlet letter," she said, "and other days it makes me feel like I am an independent contract worker, and I can go home at night and not worry about this place."
Former colleagues try to rationalize what happened. "Shelley was neither a shining star at her job nor at the bottom," one said. "Those who know they weren't as good feel they lucked out, and those who performed better tell themselves she should have worked harder."
Roger Colella, 51, hoped the growing use of former employees would play to his advantage. But he is not quite as sure of this as he once was.
Mr. Colella was an $80,000-a-year manager at Pacific Bell. Many companies, seeking to thin their ranks without dismissing people, have permitted employees in mid-career, or earlier, to cash in the company-financed portions of their pensions, periodically sweetening the amounts to encourage this. Pacific Bell offered the latest sweetener last March and Mr. Colella decided that he had to act, or risk losing $515,000.
Now he is working around the house, unemployed. He sees himself as a man temporarily between engagements at the company that ushered him out in September and expects him back in March, but on contract, and perhaps not as a manager. Mr. Colella says he is beginning to realize that in his second act, former subordinates will inevitably be less respectful of his authority.
Indeed, managing on contract is an oxymoron, Mr. Colella says; he would be more comfortable returning in a line job, as a peer of his former subordinates. No matter how friendly the parting, he adds: "Some level of mutual respect and authority is lost. My people might think they want me back, but if I returned they would view me as temporary, and say, 'This guy is only here for a short time; we'll do as we wish.' "
Some of Mr. Colella's former subordinates express the hope that his old job will still be open in March, when Mr. Colella, with his calming ways, will be eligible to return on contract. "We are living in a void until then," one said.

The Workplace
A Broader Impact On the Economy
The experiences of Ms. Corbett, Ms. McGuinness and Mr. Colella, multiplied many times, are forcing change on the American workplace and on the economy. Productivity is particularly at issue. Ms. Corbett, for example, says that in theory she works on a par with another woman in her new position. But in practice, they are not equals. Excluded from training, Ms. Corbett says she is no longer acquiring technical knowledge to market new products, so the workload falls increasingly on her partner, who parcels out to Ms. Corbett only the tasks she can handle.
Uncertain of the future, she no longer goes out of her way to cultivate people in other departments who, as a favor, might speed up her customers' orders for circuits and equipment, as they once did. For Jeffrey Pfeffer, a management expert at the Stanford Business School, stories like that demonstrate a setback for the nation's economic effectiveness. "Companies don't think about the relationship between job tenure and productivity," he said.
The phenomenon of former employees' cycling back to their companies as contract workers is still relatively small, but if it spreads, says Mr. Krueger, the Princeton labor economist, we come "that much closer to a world in which employment is no longer the primary source of pensions and health care, and we may have to choose other arrangements."
Ms. McGuinness offers herself as a vivid example of the issue. Her $42,000 pension settlement is not a match for what she would have received had she remained at Pacific Bell until retirement, another 15 years. And the company's health insurance, for which she paid only $50 a month for full family coverage, expired six months after her job did.
Within those six months, her husband was found to have cancer (in remission now). He managed to shift to a group policy at the carpeting business he owns, but at a cost to himself of more than $300 a month. Ms. McGuinness bought a separate policy for herself and her son, at $128 a month. The family's out-of-pocket health insurance, in sum, rose nearly ninefold, and Ms. Corbett found herself without the five weeks of paid vacation she had accumulated.
"I'll never get that back," she said. "My biggest heartache is what happened to my benefits."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Linda Corbett, 42, now a contract worker, says she has much higher health insurance costs and is excluded from training at Pacific Bell; Roger Colella, 51, at home in Novato, Calif., is a former manager at Pacific Bell. Managing on contract, he says, would be an oxymoron. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg. 34)
 
Graph: "Familiar Faces"
 Percentage of each category of "contingent workers" in February 1995 who previously worked for their current employer under another arrangement:
 
On-call workers -- 19.4%
 
Temporary help agency workers -- 9.3%
 
Workers provided by contract firms -- 11.7%
 
Independent contractors paid wages or salaries -- 22.3% (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); TRENDS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); INTERVIEWS (60%); SUBURBS (56%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



189 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 61; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1897 words

HEADLINE: THE NEEDIEST CASES;
Healing Neighborhoos With Comprehensive Community Building

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN with STACEY HIRSH 

 BODY:
James Morrison lives in a squat six-story apartment building on a bleak stretch of cityscape in Brooklyn. For two long blocks, the red brick building is repeated in an architectural echo of dilapidation. Across the street there is a drab supermarket and an abandoned lot. At 9 A.M., the only activity is the swinging of a door to a corner liquor store.
"There is nothing in this neighborhood," said Mr. Morrison, a 37-year-old father of two who works as a streetside vendor of incense, oils and religious books. But where Mr. Morrison sees nothing, the Community Service Society of New York sees opportunity. 
 In the last several months, the Community Service Society, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, has been quietly laying the groundwork for the revival of the two blocks. Tenants meet every other Tuesday. Surveys list repairs that are needed in the apartments. And residents are starting to plan.
The Neediest Cases Fund, which began its 85th annual appeal last week, supports some of the city's largest charities in offering a hand to New Yorkers who need one. And helping the neediest New Yorkers often means recognizing the peril of New York's neediest neighborhoods.
The portrait of Mr. Morrison's street is not a single image. Blocks like his can be found in every borough. And while fewer buildings stand abandoned than a decade ago, particularly in the South Bronx, a citywide decline in resources, including recent deep cutbacks in government housing subsidies, has made the task of fixing broken neighborhoods harder than ever.
In response, the Community Service Society has been looking for a neighborhood where it can combine its housing rehabilitation efforts with other social services that the agency had not linked in the past.
The Children's Aid Society, another agency supported by the Neediest Cases Fund, is already succeeding in a similar effort on 118th Street in Harlem where four years ago, with the help of a donor, it started rebuilding decrepit apartment houses alongside an existing community center and shelter for homeless families.
Their strategies fit a pattern of comprehensive community building across the country that began about six years ago with grants from large foundations interested in overhauling run-down neighborhoods.
"The research was beginning to show that community level factors have a bigger effect on individual outcomes than we had previously recognized," said Anne Kubisch, who worked on early community building projects with the Ford Foundation.
"We said maybe we need to take a step back and look at the health of communities, and that isn't just housing renovation. It's not just job training. It's not just substance abuse prevention, but how all those fit together to make a healthy community."
The goal is to create or restore affordable housing and at the same time saturate communities with programs and assistance like neighborhood associations, health care, job training, educational opportunities, after school programs, youth services and economic development.
In Mr. Morrison's neighborhood, the Community Service Society has begun focusing on nearly 500 apartments in privately owned buildings that are plagued with leaks and rats. But what is most vexing to Mr. Morrison, whose children are 10 and 3, is that there is no place for children to play. "There are three centers here that are closed right now," he said. "They need to be open for the kids after school."
For an elderly woman who is one of his neighbors, however, the main concerns are re-establishing tenant patrols to deter crime and restoring basement laundry rooms.
These types of differing priorities make community building a delicate task. Outside organizers face the challenge of earning a community's trust and the danger of raising expectations that cannot be met.
For these reasons, as well as the legal intricacies of dealing with private landlords, the Community Service Society agreed to talk about its current project only on the condition that the precise location not be revealed. At such an early stage, the pieces could easily fall apart, agency workers said.
To gain the trust of the residents, the Community Service Society has teamed up with a small, local not-for-profit agency that specializes in helping mentally disabled adults. The local agency has no experience in community rebuilding but its workers are respected in the neighborhood.
The first goal is to organize the tenants and improve the conditions in the buildings, either by putting pressure on the landlords or by transferring ownership to the tenants and arranging financing for repairs.
At the same time, the agency would make other resources available, including a corps of elderly volunteers, technical help on receiving government assistance and direct social services such as counseling and crisis intervention.
The hope is that by consolidating efforts, more people will be reached and improvements in the community can be sustained.
Among residents, interest in the project is growing; the number of people attending tenant meetings has risen to 45 from 15.
Where earlier efforts at comprehensive community building were supported by large grants, more and more projects are being prompted not by an influx of money but by the lack of it.
"There isn't enough money anymore to be providing services on an individual basis to all the people that need them in the way we have traditionally done," said Ms. Kubisch, who is now with the Aspen Institute, a think tank. "Therefore, you have to think about other ways you can improve the circumstances in people's lives."
Some social service providers say no strategy, no matter how clever, can make up for a lack of funds. "There is no way these communities can be serviced without money," said Megan McLaughlin, the executive director of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, another agency supported by the Neediest Cases Fund. "Everybody knows, if we want to be honest and the truth be told, if you want to address these problems you have to have money."
Times were not always so tough. Resources were plentiful in the late 1980's when the Rev. Donald Sakano, the director of housing for the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, set out to restore 23 abandoned buildings in the South Bronx.
"It was like a dream," said Father Sakano, now pastor of the Church of the Holy Innocence on West 37th Street in Manhattan. "It was like putting your sail up and sailing from one port to another. We had nothing but friends who wanted to succeed in that neighborhood."
Catholic Charities, which is also supported by the Neediest Cases Fund, was able to restore 723 apartments in Highbridge, a neighborhood just north of Yankee Stadium. But Father Sakano said it would be difficult or impossible to replicate that effort today.
"It was a chemistry in the late 80's that was unique," he said. "Mayor Koch became interested in housing, he had commissioners that were very skilled, there was money and there was a defined need."
In recent years, less money and fewer resources have forced agencies to develop new strategies. "The question for a program then becomes how to direct itself so it could have the biggest bang for the diminished buck," said Allen Blitz, the director of the Community Service Society's housing development assistance program.
"Where traditionally we have responded to requests for ownership transfer of buildings all over the city, we think that we would be able to do better if we target and concentrate our efforts in terms of a single project in a single community," Mr. Blitz said.
The Children's Aid Society is also hoping to concentrate more of its efforts in specific areas, as it has done with two buildings called the Carmel Hill Project on 118th Street between Lenox and Fifth Avenues in Harlem. "What we did was a model demonstration of what could be done on one block," said Philip Coltoff, the executive director of the Children's Aid Society. "People would say, 'One block? How can you invest so many resources in one block?' But one block in New York City could have a thousand people living in it. That's as many people as in a village. And some problems in New York City can only be solved block by block."
Ann Hamm, the project director, remembers vividly what the apartments on 118th Street looked like before the project started in 1992: the holes in the walls burrowed by rodents, the floorboards so deteriorated she could feel the beams as she walked.
"I had one client whose toilet went through to the basement," she recalled. "He threw a ladder down there, because it was still intact, and he used it, because that was the frame of mind they were in," she said.
Squatters lived in 11 of the 40 apartments and most of the residents did not trust her. She sought the help of the most respected members of the community and quickly proved herself adept at maneuvering through city bureaucracy. She persuaded the city to let the squatters become legal tenants and persuaded the squatters to agree.
The children who live on the block on 118th Street can usually be found at the Dunlevy Milbank Center, a recreation and community center run by the Children's Aid Society that opened in 1958. Inside, there is a gym, a swimming pool, a day care center and offices for counseling. Downstairs there is a medical center for eye tests and dental care, and a classroom that houses the center's high school equivalency program. Outside, there are basketball courts where the center's slogan, "Sharing and caring in our community" is painted on a wall.
Kelsey Stevens, 45, the center's director, grew up four blocks away and watched the neighborhood fall apart. "I saw it go down in the late 70's, early 80's," he said."Abandoned buildings, stores going out of business, the center not being as populated. In those days you didn't leave your block too much because too many things could happen."
Now, there are people to turn to for help. Many of the social services available at the Milbank Center are supported by money from the Neediest Cases Fund.
The fund also pays to stock the kitchens in the apartments at the Pelham Fritz homeless shelter across the street, insuring that no one there goes hungry.
Adolph S. Ochs, the former publisher of The Times, started the Neediest Cases Fund in 1912 in the belief that if New Yorkers only knew about the conditions of their less fortunate neighbors, they would be willing to help. The Times pays all of the fund's expenses so donations go directly to services for those who need them. The fund's 85th annual appeal, which runs through Feb. 28, began last week with $1,350,908.94 in donations received since the end of last year's campaign.
The comprehensive approach to rebuilding the block on 118th Street seems to be working as the apartments, the shelter and the center have coalesced into a strong community. Ninety-five percent of the 430 families that have passed through the Pelham Fritz shelter have not returned to homelessness.
The Carmel Hill model could be replicated, Mr. Coltoff said, with the money to do it.
"We want to go one block west after we accomplish what we've accomplished here," Ms. Hamm said. "We hope to go block by block, expanding to include the entire community."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A TRUE COMMUNITY CENTER -- With programs from swimming to dental care, the Dunlevy Milbank Center is part of an effort to rebuild a community in Harlem. Kelsey Stevens, the center's director, plays basketball with Kobe Garcia, and Lenear Howard, both 11. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); HOME IMPROVEMENTS -- The Carmel Hill Project, on 118 Street in Harlem, is a model for community redevelopment. The Children's Aid Society, thanks to a private donor, has helped pay for apartment renovations and other services. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times); VISIONS FOR A VACANT LOT -- Janmes Morrison sees the empty lot behind his Brooklyn apartment and dreams of a playground or a temple. The Community Service Society is keeping a wish list as it looks for ways to rebuild a community in the neighborhood. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "OVERVIEW: The Neediest Cases" lists various charitable organizations, their addresses, and an overview of their activities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); FAMILY (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); CHARITIES (74%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (71%); RELIGION (70%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (69%); DRUG POLICY (68%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (64%); CHILD WELFARE (63%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; HIRSH, STACEY

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



190 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 56; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Budgets: The Long and the Shortfall;
A Report Says Inefficiency Is Costing New York Billions

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
The Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan group that studies government finances, released a report last week that said that New York City and State could save up to $15 billion annually if they revamped the way they raise and spend their money. The seven-volume report cited figures to show that the city and state were more costly and less efficient than the rest of the nation, making them less competitive for business. Here are some of the statistics, which the commission culled from government and private sources. CLIFFORD J. LEVY
 
JOBS AND TAXES
 * From 1950 to 1995, the number of the state's private-sector jobs grew by 32 percent, compared with 150 percent in the nation. The number declined in New York City by nearly 8 percent. 
 * In 1992, the state's business income taxes represented 1.03 percent of the state's gross product; the average for six other major states was 0.31 percent.
* Largely because of higher business taxes, electricity costs in Atlanta are 59 percent of New York City's.
* In 1993, companies received $521 million in real estate tax breaks in New York City, often to keep them from moving, up from $180 million in 1987.
* In 1975, New York had the highest state tax on personal income in the country; next year, the rate will drop to 23d, in part because of tax cuts pushed by Gov. George E. Pataki. Even so, New York's overall state and local taxes are the highest in the nation: more than 60 percent above the national average.
* The state ranks 24th in the nation in the share of personal income consumed by sales taxes.
 
SOCIAL PROGRAMS
* New York City and New York State, with a combined total budget of $70 billion, spend $26 billion on social programs; less than 15 percent of that is in cash benefits for welfare and other programs; the rest goes to institutions like hospitals or foster care agencies.
* The state's spending on social programs relative to the size of its economy is double the average in the rest of the nation. Its spending on foster care is five times that average.
* Expenses for administering benefits to families on welfare are 250 percent higher than the average in the rest of the country.
* New York is one of only 14 states in the country that require localities to pick up part of the cost of Medicaid, which pays for medical care for the poor.
* In New York State, $7,164 was spent for each beneficiary of Medicaid, as opposed to an average of $3,591 in the rest of the nation.
New York spends 168 percent more than the average in the rest of the nation on such Medicaid services as nursing home care.
 
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS
* Between 1979 and 1995, the city's operating expenditures rose 145 percent, an average of 6 percent annually, and between 1983 and 1995, the state's operating expenditures increased 86 percent, more than 5 percent annually.
* New York State and its localities provide essentially the same services as governments in the rest of the nation, but spend 34 percent more to do so.
* In relation to the size of their economies, the state and its localities spend twice as much as the average in the rest of the nation on housing and community development; 92 percent more on transportation and transit; 60 percent more on government administration; 35 percent more on health and hospitals, and 30 percent more on public safety.
* The state spends one-third more than the average in the rest of the nation on public education.
* On a per capita basis, the state and its localities employ 25 percent more government workers than the average in the rest of the nation, and contribute 47 percent more to their pensions.
 
INFRASTRUCTURE AND DEBT
* The total debt burden of the state and its localities is 43 percent higher than the average in the rest of the nation.
* The state needs to invest three times as much in improving its water treatment plants as the average in the rest of the nation.
* The state's roadways are the nation's sixth most congested.
* Sixty-three percent of the state's bridges are deficient; the average in the rest of the nation is 32 percent.
* Of those major infrastructure projects in New York City begun in 1983 and scheduled to be finished by 1989, only 9 percent were completed on time.
* An 84-year-old state law requiring most government agencies to give multiple construction contracts for projects worth more than $50,000 costs the agencies $500 million.
* The state's two major airports, Kennedy International and La Guardia, are among the most congested in the nation.
* In 1993, 85 percent of the city's school buildings needed to be replaced or to undergo substantial renovations.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS BUDGET COMMISSION (NYS)

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS BUDGET COMMISSION (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES TAX (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); FAMILY (71%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (67%); HOSPITALS (66%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (66%); NURSING HOMES (60%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (54%); EDDIE GEORGE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



191 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: A Sensible Plan for Rent Decontrol

 BODY:
About a million apartments in New York City are covered by rent regulations that will expire this June. The Republican majority leader of the State Senate, Joseph Bruno, announced last week that he would not allow a renewal of the laws, unless it was tied to a plan for swift deregulation.
Mr. Bruno is right to call for decontrol. Rent regulation has not served New York City well. It has discouraged investment in the upkeep of old properties and the construction of new ones. The laws hurt the entire city by reducing the tax base. An expensive and extremely cumbersome state bureaucracy is required to implement them. Especially galling, the laws create an irrational system in which some well-to-do tenants pay very little rent for large apartments while less-prosperous newcomers are forced to pay rates that are artificially inflated by the shortage of market-rate housing. 
 But a system that affects so many people should not be undone hastily. Mr. Bruno's proposal to eliminate all rent control and stabilization laws in two years is far too abrupt. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, on the other hand, seems committed to retaining the system as it is.
The politics of this standoff are obvious. Mr. Silver's Democrats are based in New York City, where well over two million people live in rent-regulated dwellings. Mr. Bruno's upstate political base couldn't care less about New York City rent regulations. But city real estate interests, which stand to get enormous windfalls from deregulation, are big campaign contributors to state Republicans, including Mr. Bruno.
Rent regulation has been here for a half-century and scrapping it suddenly would create major economic and social dislocation. Although the market rents in many poor neighborhoods are already lower than legal limits, there are still tens of thousands of low-income people whose housing costs will go up sharply when rents are decontrolled. Many families with more money will still have to move to areas with lower market rates. Businesses and service workers will lose income as money that rent-regulated tenants were able to spend on things like child care, entertainment and transportation is shifted to housing. The only people who would gain from a swift decontrol are landlords, who could reap immense profits by selling buildings they bought at rent-regulated prices.
Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver should work with housing experts and city officials to develop a plan for gradual decontrol with a final, certain date at which rent regulations would be eliminated entirely. Negotiations should begin in January. The leaders must avoid the usual scenario in which Mr. Bruno demands the moon, Mr. Silver stonewalls, the state budget becomes months overdue and both sides wait to see who will cave in first.
Several approaches are possible. The first stage of gradual decontrol could include dropping all regulations on units as they become vacant. The plan could also gradually reduce the maximum allowable income for rent-regulated tenants from the present $250,000 on down. Or it could allow rents to rise by limited amounts each year until they reached market levels. Either way, the time period before final decontrol should be extended from two years to perhaps 10 years. Officials can then monitor the effects of the transition, making adjustments as needed.
Any changes must be made in an atmosphere that keeps the fate of poor New Yorkers constantly in mind. The Senate Republicans have offered to expand protections for the low-income elderly and the disabled. But they have not mentioned the equally pressing problems of poor families with children. Mr. Bruno's confidence that the unregulated marketplace will solve the housing shortage in poor neighborhoods is misplaced. Residents there simply do not have enough money to pay rents that would make unsubsidized housing practical.
So far, the Republicans have not suggested that the state should couple decontrol with more subsidized housing or some other safety net for the substantial number of very poor tenants. That is an issue Mr. Silver must put on the table.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; EDITORIALS; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY RENT CONTROL (94%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); CITIES (73%); FAMILY (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



192 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Gore Exhorts Latins on Saving Environment

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: SANTA CRUZ, Bolivia, Dec. 7

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore told Latin Americans today to stop looking to their governments to clean up rivers, lands and skies, saying organized citizens and the private sector should help preserve the environment.
"Governments alone cannot provide all the solutions," Mr. Gore said at a one-day regional summit meeting here on sustainable economic development -- the pursuit of economic growth without harm to the environment. 
 In his speech, Mr. Gore called for urgent, concerted action so all Latin Americans have access to clean water and electricity. More than a third of Latin Americans lack electricity and many lack clean drinking water.
But despite the calls by Mr. Gore and others to work together, differences over the agenda haunted the conference, leading several leaders to cancel their visit and others to leave early. Officials said Washington had insisted the meeting focus on the environment, while several Latin American nations argued that poverty and economic development should take precedence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (95%); BOLIVIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; LATIN AMERICA (95%); BOLIVIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); WATER QUALITY (67%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



193 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-27
 
SERB REBELLION ON THE INTERNET
When President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia tried to shut down independent news media, he spawned a movement that may undermine his hold on power -- the use of Internet web sites for news. 1
 
In Bosnia, a group of Serbs went home to a Muslim area. 20
 
CHINA'S NEW THROWAWAY CULTURE
Having discovered the convenience of a throwaway culture, China is passing through a phase in which everyone seems to be throwing trash out the window. 3
 
BURMESE ANGER OVER PIPELINE
Burmese rights groups say Myanmar's military Government has used forced labor on a natural gas pipeline route, and they are demanding that foreign companies end their involvement. 4
 
PERU DEBATES 3D FUJIMORI TERM
The next election is not scheduled until 2000, but Peru is engaged in an intense debate over whether President Alberto K. Fujimori should run for a third term. 27
 
VENEZUELANS MINE FRAGILE LANDS
Venezuela plans to lift bans on gold and diamond mining in ecologically fragile areas and to grant amnesties to companies that have been mining without permission. 22
 
Mothers in Colombia plead for the release of abducted soldiers. 21
 
France asked its neighbors to help find bombing suspects. 17
 
National 28-48
 
SOCIAL SECURITY PANEL SPLIT
After more than two years of work, a Federal advisory panel that has been studying Social Security is unable to reach a consensus on a long-term plan for financing the retirement program. 1
 
RECYCLING WORKERS
As many as one-fifth of contract workers, probably more than a million, are people who have returned to their old companies, many after being pushed off payrolls or lured off with lucrative buyouts. 1
 
PANEL'S FUTURE UNCERTAIN
With his foreign policy team in place, President Clinton's aides say, he must now decide on the future of the National Economic Council. 1
 
CHANGES FOR THE UNITARIANS
Lately, Unitarian clergy members say, their congregations are exploring forms of prayer and meditation and other rituals. 28
 
SPEED LIMIT TO RETURN?
A year after Montana became the only state without a fixed daytime speed limit on its highways, some leading state officials have decided they want one back. 28
 
INFLUENCING MACHIAVELLI
A Dartmouth College political scientist has aroused debate by arguing that Leonardo da Vinci influenced Niccolo Machiavelli's thinking in a way that ultimately sparked the development of modern industrial society. 36
 
HORSE PLAN CRITICIZED
The Bureau of Land Management's plan to protect wild horses in the Owyhee Mountains of Idaho has come under fire from some of the county's 8,545 residents. 41
 
HAWAII'S SNOWPLOW IS KEPT BUSY
Hawaii's only snowplow is back at work, removing drifts from the state's highest mountain so scientists can reach the observatories at the summit. 43
 
A HINT IN EARHART MYSTERY
A scrap of metal found on an island in the Pacific might have come from the plane Amelia Earhart flew on her last flight -- or it might not have. 44
 
Metropolitan 49-61
 
POOR TEACHERS GET COACHING
In a remedial program for poor New York City teachers, a teaching coach works one-on-one in the classroom for as long as a year. The existence of the program, one of only a handful in the country, is a measure of the extent of New York City's problem with poorly performing teachers and its difficulty in dismissing teachers who have tenure. 1
 
IMPERATIVE FOR THE CITY STREETS
New York City, in the most ambitious urban-design initiative of Mayor Giuliani's administration, wants to import some of the flavor of the Parisian streetscape. Where the cities will be similar -- at least where the Mayor hopes they will be similar -- will be in defining a kind of "look" for the city. 49
A $20 MILLION GIFT FOR SUNY
Charles B. Wang, a software entrepreneur from Long Island, is pledging $20 million to $25 million to create an Asian-American cultural center at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. His gift is believed to be the largest private donation to the state system and one of the biggest to any public college or university in the country. 49
 
Neediest Cases 61

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); MYANMAR (93%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); MYANMAR (93%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); HAWAII, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RELIGION (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (72%); NATURAL GAS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); AMNESTY (67%); DIAMOND MINING (67%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (67%); SPEED LIMITS (66%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); HORSES (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); MOUNTAINS (63%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



194 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 62; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Pete Rozelle Dies at 70; Led N.F.L.'s Growth Years

BYLINE: By WILLIAM N. WALLACE 

 BODY:
Pete Rozelle, the commissioner who presided over the changes that made the National Football League the premier professional sports organization over the last four decades, died at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., on Friday. He was 70.
The cause was brain cancer. Mr. Rozelle had a benign brain tumor removed in December 1993. 
 During his nearly 30 years as commissioner -- which spanned the terms of eight Presidents -- Mr. Rozelle oversaw a merger and expansion that more than doubled the size of the league, obtained the most lucrative television contract in sports, established Monday night football and introduced revenue-sharing among the teams.
On his watch, the N.F.L. rose to unprecedented heights of popularity, so much so that, in the eyes of its followers, it surpassed baseball as the national pastime. It also enjoyed huge economic success, attracting escalating television contracts, marketing income and expansion fees.
But his monument to the sport was the Super Bowl. Soon after the first championship matchup between the established N.F.L. and the upstart American Football League in 1967, the Super Bowl became one of the most watched television programs, garnering ever higher rights' fees from the networks and escalating ticket prices.
Indeed, when he surprised his employers, the owners of N.F.L. teams, by announcing his retirement on March 23, 1989, Mr. Rozelle said that the strongest reflection of his tenure was not the merger with the A.F.L., which became final in 1970, nor the expansion from 12 to 28 teams. He instead cited the Super Bowl.
"The most fun thing was watching the development of the Super Bowl because the game is what it's all about," he said at the time. "I really felt a high at every Super Bowl, with all the glitz and the spectacular halftime shows."
When Mr. Rozelle retired, 9 of the 10 television programs with the largest audiences in history were Super Bowls, with No. 1 being Super Bowl XX, between the Chicago Bears and the New England Patriots, in 1986, with 127 million viewers. Moreover, four polls taken between 1978 and 1985 declared that pro football was America's favorite sport.
Mr. Rozelle was also consistent in naming the decision he most regretted as commissioner: playing N.F.L. games on Sunday, Nov. 24, 1963, two days after John F. Kennedy was assassinated. He called the decision a mistake, even though he had sought advice from Pierre Salinger, the President's press secretary and a friend from Mr. Rozelle's days at the University of San Francisco.
"In the afternoon, I went to the Giants' game," Mr. Rozelle said in 1994. "We had a moment of silence. I could not concentrate on the game. I brooded about my decision the entire game. You have to understand, I was more than depressed over the assassination. I had lost someone whom I'd respected as the leader of our country, but I was also a close friend of the Kennedy family."
As a leader, Mr. Rozelle blended compromise with showmanship (he was an ever present figure with an ever present tan) and was a moderate man with more wit than ego.
His 29-year term as the leader of the N.F.L. came in two parts, the first beginning with his unlikely election on Jan. 26, 1960, at age 33. It featured unprecedented success for the league and for his C.E.O.-like control of it, along with his reputation as the most skilled head of any pro sports league. The second part of his reign, beginning in the mid-1970's, was less satisfying, with years of turmoil and litigation that led to his resignation.
Afterward, he largely withdrew from the professional sports scene. He is survived by his wife, Carrie; his first wife, Jane Coupe of San Clemente, Calif., from whom he was divorced; one brother, Richard Rozelle of Escondido, Calif., one daughter, Anne Marie Bratton of Dallas, and two grandchildren.
Alvin Ray Rozelle, nicknamed Pete at the age of 5 by an uncle, was born on March 1, 1926, in Los Angeles and grew up in the suburb of Compton. He went to Compton Junior College and, late in World War II, served on a Navy coastal tanker that, he said, never went far from San Pedro, the Southern California port.
Sports was always an interest, if not a passion. He sometimes mentioned that Duke Snider, a high school teammate and later a Hall of Fame player for the Dodgers, in Brooklyn and later in Los Angeles, knocked out his two front teeth in a basketball practice.
He found work as the sports information director at the University of San Francisco, for $250 a month, when its football and basketball teams were prominent.
A publicity trip before a football game with Fordham at Randalls Island Stadium in 1951, brought Rozelle to New York for the first time. He was impressed. "The big time," he later said. Los Angeles was next, as the public relations director for the N.F.L.'s Rams. After a brief interlude in public relations with a San Francisco firm, he returned to the Rams as general manager.
In October 1959, Bert Bell, the N.F.L. commissioner since 1946, died at a Philadelphia Eagles game. In January, at a meeting in the Kenilworth Hotel in Miami Beach, the owners of the 12 teams broke a nine-day deadlock by choosing Mr. Rozelle, a compromise candidate, on the 23d ballot.
Mr. Rozelle, representing the Rams, had been told to leave the room during the last voting, but not to go far. He went to the men's room where, he said, he washed his hands when anyone came in. "I must have washed my hands 50 times." Later, when he was addressing the owners as the league's new commissioner, he said, "I can honestly say I come to you with clean hands."
The new commissioner moved the headquarters from Mr. Bell's Philadelphia to New York and commenced a courtship of television.
The first of Mr. Rozelle's several fruitful petitions to Congress brought about the legalization of single-network television contracts for professional sports leagues. In 1961, CBS signed up to televise the 98 regular-season games for an annual fee of $4.65 million. In 1987, the last pact of his era, among three networks, returned $420 million annually. Such growth affected the value of team franchises that, in Mr. Rozelle's time, went up in transfer deals to $80 million from $2 million.
By initiating the teams' sharing of the revenue from television and with such later innovations as N.F.L. Films and NFL Properties, or contributions to other firsts like N.F.L. Alumni, N.F.L. Charities and the N.F.L. Hall of Fame, Mr. Rozelle put in place the all-for-one, one-for-all concept among the franchises.
He was hardly responsible for the emerging pervasiveness of television. But he did direct its growth with pro football through the eras of blackouts of local teams, Sunday doubleheaders, the Monday night game, which began in 1970, and expanded playoffs.
His first landmark, however, had to do with people, not television. In 1962, he fined George Halas, a league founder and the owner-coach of the Chicago Bears, for abusing field officials. Mr. Halas accepted the fine and thereafter was one of Mr. Rozelle's strongest supporters.
And because Mr. Rozelle was so shocked by the college basketball gambling scandals of 1951, he set up an advanced security program. In 1963, he fined and suspended two star players, Paul Hornung of the Green Bay Packers and Alex Karras of the Detroit Lions, for placing bets on N.F.L. games. The suspensions lasted only one season, the fines were minor ($2,000 for each player) and the betting incidents now appear small. But the suspensions represented the establishment of his authority.
But his efforts to resolve division-of-money issues between the owners and the players' union became heated in the 1970's. The so-called Rozelle rule, which required a team signing a free agent to compensate the player's former team with another player or draft choices to be decided by the commissioner, was declared illegal in a suit brought by John Mackey and other players. It eventually cost the league $13.65 million in damages.
In an earlier blow, his policy of "league think" -- his mantra promoting unselfishness among the franchises -- was undermined by Al Davis, the maverick owner of the Raiders. Davis won an antitrust case that permitted him to move his team from Oakland to Los Angeles, against the voted wish of the other owners. The jury decision cost the N.F.L. about $50 million and set a precedent for unilateral action subsequently exercised by other owners.
At the end of the season the Raiders, having moved to Los Angeles, won the Super Bowl. Mr. Rozelle presented the trophy to Mr. Davis with his congratulations in the customary locker room ceremony.
"That was Pete's finest moment," said Ed Sabol, the founder of NFL Films. "He never flinched, while Al never looked him back in the eyes."
 
ROZELLE AND TELEVISION
A look at Pete Rozelle's role in shaping the relationship between professional football and television sports. SportsSunday, section 8, page 3.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pete Rozelle, congratulating Green Bay's Vince Lombardi after the inaugural Super Bowl game in 1967. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (52%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FOOTBALL DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); SPORTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); BASEBALL (73%); BRAIN CANCER (72%); CANCER (72%); TICKET SALES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: ROZELLE, PETE; WALLACE, WILLIAM N JOHN F KENNEDY (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



195 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 58; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Dismissed Workers at Javits Center to Sue

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Two hundred union members who worked at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center plan to file a lawsuit next week charging that Gov. George E. Pataki and the center's leaders violated the workers' constitutional rights when they were dismissed as part of an effort to end union corruption at the center.
The workers, members of Exposition Workers Local 829, say that when the center's operating corporation, which operates under state authority, revamped its work force last year to reduce bloated costs, featherbedding and mob influence, it acted illegally in letting go almost all of the local's 250 members who worked at the center. 
 Advancing a novel legal theory, the lawsuit asserts that Mr. Pataki and the center's chief executive, Robert E. Boyle, violated the workers' freedom of association by dismissing almost all of the local's members just because a handful of the union's members were corrupt.
"It's unfair, it's wrong, to tar a whole group for the individual acts of a few members of the union," said Robert Fitzpatrick, a plaintiff who worked at the Javits Center from its opening in 1986 until the center overhauled its work force in July 1995. Like the other plaintiffs, he used to transport materials from the center's loading docks into the huge, glass-walled hall to set up exhibits.
Hillary Richard, a lawyer for the workers, said the lawsuit would be filed on Wednesday in Federal District Court in Manhattan. The lawsuit will seek several million dollars in damages for lost wages as well as an injunction ordering the center to rehire the workers.
The suit highlights an issue about which unions in New York and across the nation are increasingly voicing concern -- they say government officials frequently act too broadly, often sweeping out innocent workers along with the guilty, when they seek to clean up operations where there is mob influence.
Spokesmen for Mr. Pataki and the center's operating corporation denied that they acted illegally when they overhauled the center's work force and dismissed hundreds of veteran union workers. They asserted that when the center sorted through 2,700 applicants to hire more than 500 workers, including some union members who worked there, they were seeking an honest, eager and efficient work force.
Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said the Governor's office had no comment on the suit yet. And Michael Eisgrau, the Javits center's chief spokesman, said, "I cannot comment about a complaint that I have not seen."
The Governor has said repeatedly, however, that ever since the Javits center revamped its work force, it has largely eradicated featherbedding and corruption, which were discouraging many groups from holding conventions there.
"The Javits Center has become one of the hottest convention centers in the nation, if not the world, because of the changes that were made there at Governor Pataki's direction by Bob Boyle," Mr. McKeon said. "They are turning away more business than they can handle. The place is night and day from what it was."
Mr. Fitzpatrick said the plaintiffs agreed that it was important to rid the center of corruption, but he said that should be done in a way that does not punish the innocent.
Ronald L. Kuby, one of the workers' lawyers, said: "All these workers were fired solely because they were members of Local 829, not for any legitimate employment-related reason. You have a constitutional right of freedom of association, so to fire someone because you're a member of a particular union violates that right.
"In America," he continued, "you're to be judged on the basis of what you do, not on the basis of what someone else does who might be associated with you. That idea of guilt by association strikes at the heart of the most cherished liberties we have."
Last June, a year after the center overhauled its work force, Manhattan District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau announced the indictment of nine members of Local 829, including its president, John V. McNamee Sr., on charges of loan sharking and illegally obtaining health benefits, unemployment benefits and Social Security.
Before July 1995, leaders of the three unions with the most workers at the center oversaw hiring there.
But state officials asserted that this system engendered favoritism and payoffs and gave mob associates a say in hiring, and Mr. Boyle scrapped it in favor of a system in which the center chose workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC); SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; LABOR; LABOR UNIONS SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); DAMAGES (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); LAWYERS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



196 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: If It Walks and Talks Like Inflation, It's Inflation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Dec. 5 editorial "A New Way to Look at Prices" says a Government commission of outside economists has reported that the Consumer Price Index, as now calculated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, exaggerates inflation because it takes inadequate account of consumers offsetting some of the impact of higher prices by switching to lower-priced goods. The underlying assumption is that when consumers are forced by inflation to switch to lower-priced goods their standard of living remains the same. Rubbish! 
 If a consumer must substitute a generic brand of cereal for a name brand that he likes more, his standard of living has gone down. If she must rent a video instead of going to a movie, her standard of living has gone down. If he must eat chicken when he prefers beef, his standard of living has gone down. Only Government "newspeak" can tell us that this is not inflation.
 
FRANK BRAULT
West Hartford, Conn., Dec. 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) LIVING STANDARDS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: BRAULT, FRANK

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



197 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: If It Walks and Talks Like Inflation, It's Inflation;
Who Gains?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Dec. 1 news article and Week in Review article on the overstatement of consumer price inflation do not adequately take into account other analyses of the Consumer Price Index, including those by the Congressional Budget Office and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, that find a smaller distortion. 
 The Boskin Commission is composed of five economists who believed the index was too high before they were appointed. They have presented little new empirical research to support their claims.
There are influential vested interests eager to encourage such views. Congress would like nothing more than to find a way to justify reductions in the cost-of-living allowance to solve the eventual Social Security financing deficit. And surely the Clinton Administration would like to contend that the economy really grew rapidly under its watch.
But consider how unlikely this is. Incorporating two Federal Reserve economists' contentions that productivity grew half a percent faster a year than reported with these lower estimates of inflation will lead many to assume that real growth has soared since 1973 at a rate of 4 percent or more, as fast or faster than the growth during the "golden age" between 1948 and 1973. Does anyone really believe that? No.
Analyses of overstated inflation are more subjective than economists imply. More research is required. And it may turn out, as some economists believe, that the Consumer Price Index is hardly overstated at all.
 
JEFFREY MADRICK
New York, Dec. 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); STATISTICS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFFREY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



198 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: If It Walks and Talks Like Inflation, It's Inflation;
The Tax Omission

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Is it folly to think that current study of the Consumer Price Index might open a discussion of a fundamental flaw (Economic Scene, Dec. 5)? In 1976 I asked the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics why the index omitted taxes. Her answer: "Congress has decided that taxes are not part of the cost of living." Consider the increase that the average wage-earner has paid in Social Security taxes over the last 20 years and it is apparent why Congress does not allow the index to include taxation.
 
ALICE C. LUNN
Olmsted Falls, Ohio, Dec. 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (50%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (50%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); COST OF LIVING (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); TAX LAW (87%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (87%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (85%); STATISTICS (84%); SOCIAL SECURITY (84%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



199 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: If It Walks and Talks Like Inflation, It's Inflation;
Real Pain and Anxiety

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You cite an analysis by Leonard Nakamura of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank suggesting that inflation estimates over the last decade and a half have been overstated (Week in Review, Dec. 1). Since that means more real economic growth, you are surprised that "the economy has produced quite real anxiety." You suggest "it may be that those in pain were not typical." 
 Not only the anxiety has been real, so has the pain. Unemployment is central. Rather than re-estimating unemployment statistics as inflation has been re-estimated, some economists have reinterpreted them so that the unacceptably high unemployment rates of the 1950's and 60's have become the rock-bottom lows of today. The 5.3 percent or so unemployment for 1996 is a low for recent years, but that low is higher than all but seven years in the earlier period.
Lower unemployment has been and is possible; that is the hidden secret of the inflation re-estimates. We have already lost much -- in jobs, production, in social justice and stability -- because inflation was overestimated. The lesson of Mr. Nakamura's analysis should not be "Look how much better we are than we thought." Rather, it should be "Look how much better we can do, now that the bad numbers that scared us turn out to have been wrong."
 
ROBERT A. LEVINE
Los Angeles, Dec. 2, 1996
 
The writer was deputy director, Congressional Budget Office, 1975-79.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (70%); STATISTICS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, ROBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996



200 of 620 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 2605 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Jacketeering

BYLINE: By Pico Iyer; Pico Iyer's most recent book, unblurbed, is a novel, "Cuba and the Night."

 BODY:
Browsing in a bookstore not long ago, I came, by happy chance, upon "the scientific discovery of the century, if not of all time" (as no less a dignitary than Stephen Hawking called the book I held in my hand). Nearby was a volume with sex and spirituality in the title that was described (by a doctor, on the front cover) as "one of the most significant books ever published." I let my eye stray farther down the table: "Imagine Vladimir Nabokov and Anne Rice collaborating to produce a historical novel in the tradition of Mary Renault." Imagine! "If a manic J. G. Ballard and a depressed David Lodge got together," said one book jacket, they could produce something to sit on the same shelf as the first novel of another author, who "writes like some pixilated offspring of a secret liaison between J. D. Salinger and Isabel Allende."
Everywhere I looked, such unlikely co-productions seemed to be the order of the day. "If Thomas McGuane, Bob Marley and Jimmy Buffett collaborated on a novel . . ." one quotation began, ". . . it would read like melodious gibberish," seemed to be the way it should end. "A shrewd and magical storyteller sired by Garcia Marquez" was an announcement that doubtless surprised Mr. Garcia Marquez. "Imagine Evelyn Waugh reincarnated as an angel, or Ronald Firbank returned to earth with a passion for Shih Tzus. . . ." 
 Such feats of the imagination abound these days, if only on the covers of books. I half expect to see the Yellow Pages described as "the most compendious catalogue of American lore to spring from the loins of Walt Whitman." And I can hardly believe that a copy of the 1996 Department of Motor Vehicles handbook does not come with an encomium from some Caltech scientist calling it "an unprecedented look at issues that concern us all."
The blurbing trend began, I surmise, in the 1960's, when someone in a publicity department had the bright idea of taking a quotation from an article or interview and splashing it across the cover of a new book. (This, I imagine, is how W. H. Auden's praise of Ronald Firbank got such wide circulation: "Any person who dislikes" Firbank's novels "may, for all I know, possess some admirable quality, but I do not wish ever to see him again.") And from excerpting a sentence of Graham Greene's, say, in praise of one of the writers he tirelessly championed, it could not have been a large step to actually writing to Greene and asking if he might lend a word to this attack on American foreign policy or to that new Catholic novelist. From there it was surely an even smaller step to the self-addressed, stamped envelopes, "endorsement forms" with multiple-choice boxes, and follow-up letters inviting one to join the company of "Pulitzer Prize-winning Jones" and "best-selling author Smith" that I, and thousands of others, receive in the mail every day. A publisher has little to lose by sending out early versions of a book in the hope of snagging blurbs, and he has everything to gain -- or, at least, the prospect of hearing that the author's "synthetic, fortified, irradiated, robotically processed genuine New Jersey guacamole may be a disturbing hue of green, but it's Zeitgeist frappe, babe, and addictively zesty."
One result of all this is that even a non-best-selling writer like me gets as many as five or six unsolicited bound galleys a week, some with cover letters misspelling my name or congratulating me on books I haven't written, some with five blurbs already assembled for a work that's still in manuscript. Not long ago, almost simultaneously, I received tomes on Hasidic children, wine-making impresarios and the whorehouses of Saigon (who do these people think I am?).
Another result is sheer inflation: if once a blurb served to distinguish some genuinely remarkable first novel from the 200 others that appear each spring, now the cottage industry of "puffs" (as the British nicely call them) has reached such a pitch that anything without testimonials from three Nobel laureates is bound for the remainder bin. Even "The Oxford Book of Women's Writing in the United States" sails on the wind of four separate eulogies.
Thus, seasoned book lovers, and people who simply recall that "blurbing" is an anagram of "burbling," have come now to relish the fine art. Blurbs have become a wonderfully coded subset of literature, rich with as many subtexts as a Derrida anthology -- works of fiction, often, compressed into the space of a haiku. We learn to look for comments that damn the praise they're giving with a simple preposition ("I have read in 'Such and Such,' and found it fascinating") or that scrupulously avoid passing any judgment at all. "A modern-day 'Little House on the Prairie' gone mad," is the ambiguous verdict of one, while another declares, "As though some gorgeous neo-Ballardian eco-catastrophe had been rear-ended by a Steve Erickson novel on its way to the Viper Room" -- which makes one feel even sorrier for the now rear-ended, as well as manic, Mr. Ballard.
We look for indirect confessions of prior interest when the blurbist refers to the author by first name or even nickname (as in Willie Nelson's ne plus ultra assessment, "Kinky is the best whodunit writer to come along since Dashiell What's-his-name"). We scan the pages of the book to see what the hidden connection between blurbist and blurbee might be. Do they have the same editor, the same alma mater, the same hometown, even the same sexual orientation? Occasionally, one can find a blurbist mentioned in the acknowledgments. Sometimes, even better, one finds the blurbist blurbed by the blurbee on one of his own books. At the very least, they probably live in the same state (Montana writers, for example, are habitually generous in praise of one another's work).
We also learn to make complicated calculations depending on the status of the blurbist. We subtract one point if he puts a degree after his name (a sign, perhaps, of lack of confidence) and subtract a few more if he is identified: the savvier publishing houses tend not to say " 'Brilliant' -- William Shakespeare, author of 'Othello,' " on the reasonable ground that if you have to ask who the commender is, the commendation is unlikely to have much sway over you. And we add a host of bonus points for any names we haven't seen on other covers. A Thomas Pynchon is worth five Salman Rushdies, the almost posthumous cry of William Burroughs on one recent book -- "A page-turner!" -- struck me as a veritable coup, and a J. D. Salinger would be enough to merit a four-color headline.
Indeed, blurbs offer an unrivaled glimpse into the literary pecking order, for an implicit assumption behind them is that people blurb others only on their own level or below. (I'm not sure, for example, that Saul Bellow needs me to say he "reads like J. G. Ballard on helium.") So one sign of having made it is to be above all blurbs -- a new Norman Mailer or Harold Robbins is likely to come with huge photos of the author and his own name printed in 30-point bold. A few years ago, the novelist Robert Olen Butler was a fairly infrequent visitor to the back covers of books; now that he's won a Pulitzer Prize, he's everywhere. Once the paperback edition of a book comes out, its quality can be gauged by comparing the number of blurbs (favors presumably from friends) with the number of quotations from reviews (praise ostensibly from strangers).
I must confess at this point that I am no innocent bystander on this issue: I have given blurbs, quite often, to both friends and strangers; I have solicited them; I have even been the subject of one of the shotgun weddings they arrange (though not "St. Augustine meets 'Raging Bull' via T. S. Eliot"). What is more, I have seen my unfortunate blurbists grossly plagiarized. On the back cover of my first book, a kindly elder wrote: "The best writers of travel seem to invent the places they bring to life. This is why I am certain that Pico Iyer invented modern Asia. No other explanation could account for his producing so shrewd, so funny, so dazzling a book." Eight years later, I picked up a brand-new travel book and read, "The best writers of travel seem to invent the places they inhabit. That is why I am certain that Brian Alexander invented the rain forest. No other explanation could account for his producing so shrewd, so lethally humorous, so expansively sympathetic a book."
Until I first became engaged in this tit-for-tatting, I never realized that contributing blurbs is, in fact, a sorry occupation. The average book buyer, in his innocence, may imagine that people long to give blurbs -- to see their names on the back of 7,500 new copies of a novel, to get to show off their prose in the company of John Kenneth Galbraith or Stephen Hawking, or even just to secure their future by inspiring a sense of gratitude.
But the truth is that blurbing is an extremely hazardous task requiring advanced degrees in politics, economics and just plain manners. At the very least it involves some of the terrors that assault one before a dinner party. (What do you say to the hostess about her fifth marriage? How do you respond to her 6-year-old's "Pollock-inspired" drawings? How do you dress when you don't know who's going to be there?) A blurbist, after all, seldom knows whether he'll be sharing back-cover space with Zbigniew Brzezinski or William Gibson.
Imagine the horror of the blurbist who announced that Indrani Aikath-Gyaltsen brings "to life a vision of India which mocks stereotypes and replaces them with something much more vivid and endearing," and then learned that the book, supposedly set in India, had been plagiarized from a provincial English novel. Imagine the mortification of the person who recently praised a novel by proclaiming, " 'Hard Copy' meets James M. Cain meets white trash with a vengeance," when someone else, on the same book jacket, came up with the untrumpable "If Hannibal Lecter were in the market for a mate, he would look no further." And imagine the sorrow of seeing a close friend become an ex-friend because you have praised his book in the wrong terms, or less glowingly than you praised his ex-wife's book.
If giving a blurb is difficult, soliciting one is even worse. Asking a friend to turn into a Madison Avenue salesman on one's behalf is much harder, than, say, requesting a letter of recommendation (which is generally private and aimed at an audience of four); it is, in effect, a form of fishing for public compliments. Even if you do receive the plaudits you seek, you can't help feeling that they constitute more of a kindness to you than to the unwary reader.
Since giving a blurb is often an act of generosity, even self-sacrifice, many of the writers who appear most frequently (and with the most self-effacing sentences) -- from Graham Greene to Peter Matthiessen -- are those generally associated with a sense of social conscience. Blurbing a book means putting aside the unread Musil or Proust on one's bedside table in order to plow, unpaid, through 650 pages on the life and thoughts of Enver Hoxha, simply to create a bouquet that may explode in one's face. No wonder many writers have an unbending policy of just saying no.
Nonetheless, blurbs, like amoebas, seem only to multiply. By now they have reached far beyond the mere literary domain. I have seen blurbs from Bob Dylan, from the coach of the San Antonio Spurs and from David Byrne -- twice! -- on the backs of recent books. Martin Scorsese, perhaps unaware that his "Raging Bull" has "met St. Augustine via T. S. Eliot," appears on the jacket of a novel by Shusaku Endo. By now, even magazines have blurbs, and a few movies too -- advertisements for "Il Postino" had quotations from John Updike, Isabel Allende and Kurt Vonnegut -- though the fact that movies and records rely so little on them shows that they have evolved well beyond the cap-in-hand desperation of books.
Meanwhile, with more and more books that aren't really books extending our notion of "writers" and "readers," the advertisements look more and more like "We Are the World" congregations of all-star cronies. Berry Gordy's autobiography, "To Be Loved," lived up to its schmaltzy title with quotes from literati like Smokey Robinson, Dick Clark, Diahann Carroll and Diana Ross ("A supremely loving book"); from Barry Diller, Mike Ovitz, Lee Iacocca and David Geffen ("An astounding story not only of a great artist but a great visionary"); and (wondering, perhaps, what they were doing there) from Sidney Poitier and Coretta Scott King.
"This book is empowering," pronounced Calvin Klein of Deepak Chopra's "Seven Spiritual Laws of Success" (to which Peter Guber, then head of Sony Pictures, added, "A virtual-reality tool kit for the 21st-century spiritual traveler"). What is a publisher to do if he's about to bring out "Hamlet" when even "The Kid Stays in the Picture," the hapless memoir of the film producer Robert Evans, features blurbs from Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway?
None of this is to deny the virtue of blurbs (which helped to bring about the breakthrough success of such classics as "All the Pretty Horses," by Cormac McCarthy, and "My Traitor's Heart," by Rian Malan), or their entertainment value. Some self-destruct heroically: I came upon a half-page promotion for a book that, according to the publisher, had been enjoyed by the Dalai Lama, the science-fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke and the theologian Harvey Cox; farther down in the advertisement there was a lukewarm sentence from "Arthur C. Clark" (minus his "e"), a note from the secretary to the Dalai Lama, a not-very-ringing message from Harvey Cox saying "I think you are on to something" and a quotation from an unnamed "Educator in Boston" who, in lauding the book's "refusal of all pretentiousness," succeeded in misspelling "its."
Some blurbs are simply comical ("The 21st century literally has three choices: Aristotle, Nietzsche or Ken Wilber"). Sometimes they show a different side of an author (Paul Theroux's comments on "The Snow Leopard" reveal a much more sensitive soul than his own travel books acknowledge). And sometimes they have the lure of gossip-column items in disguise: "Marianne has always been cruel, especially to herself. This is a delightful book," fellow Stone-woman Anita Pallenberg writes of Marianne Faithfull's autobiography.
I admire the mischievous way one techno-best seller has quotes from Arthur C. Clarke, Rupert Murdoch, George Gilder and an associate of the author identified as a "16-year-old Internet user," and I also like the way the blurbs on the back of "The Primary Colors," written by Alexander Theroux, match the mad compendiousness and baroque eccentricity of the book itself: John Updike writes of "omnidirectional erudition and an omnivorous poetic instinct"; Robertson Davies refers to "apophthegmatic" essays, "vagarious adventures" and Sacheverell Sitwell; and James McCourt, identified as "Author of 'Mawrdew Czgowchwz,' " calls it, "Humane-letters essay-writing of the most beguiling perpetuum mobile sort." The book itself begins to seem an afterthought.
And that, in fact, is precisely the problem. Given the riskiness of writing blurbs at all; given the attempt to keep up with one's book-jacket neighbors by writing something that zings; given the fact that the names, and often the sentences, in blurbs are more compelling than the ones inside; and given our accelerating culture of the sound bite, the boldface name, the virtual reader and the capsule review, can the day be far off when every book will indeed be judged by its cover?

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TRENDS (76%); HISTORY (73%); DOGS (70%); BOOKSTORES (58%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: IYER, PICO STEPHEN WILLIAM HAWKING (73%); ANNE RICE (57%); MARY RENAULT (57%); VLADIMIR NABOKOV (57%); JEROME DAVID 'J D' SALINGER (56%); ISABEL ALLENDE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996

 
